TBB
AND ADVENTURES
OF:
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
WITH iV ACCOUNT OF
HIS TRAVELS ROTTND THREE
OF THE GLOBE,
WRITTEN BY HIMSELi'.
IS TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
EXETER:
PUBLISHED BY ABEL BROWA-
1828.
P. HOHIlIS. I'UISTIiTl.
THE
LIFE
swr
DANIEL DE TOE-
DANIEL DE FOE was descended from a respect-
able family in the county Of Northampton, and born
in London, about the year 1663. His father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish oPSt. Giles's, Oili-
plegate, and H protestant dissenter. Why the sub-
ject of this memoir prefixed the Deto his family name
uannot now be ascertained, nor ilid he at any period
of his life thi.ik it necessary to give his reasons to the
public. The political scribblers of the day, however,
thought proper to remedy this'lack of information, and
accused him ofpossessing so little of the amor patriot,.
as to make the addition m order tt\a[ he might noi be
taken for an Englishman; though this idea could huve
had no other foundation than the circumstance of his
having. in consequence of his zeal for king William,
attacked the prejudices of his countrymen in his
"True-born Englishman."
After receiving a,good education at an academy ^t
Newington, young De Foe, before he had attained his
twenty-first year, commenced his career as an author,
by writing a pamphlet against a very prevailing senti-
ment in favour of the Turks, who were at that time
Jaying siege to Vienna. This production, being very
inferior to those of his maturer years, was very little
read, and the indignant author, despairing of success
with his pen, had recourse to the sword ; 'or, as he ter-
med it, when boasting of the exploit his later years.
'displayed his atUchmcnt to liberty and protestantism,
4 LIFE OF »E FOE.
by joining the ill-advised insurrection under the duke
of Monmouth, in the west. On the failure of that un-
fortunate enterprise, he returned again to the metrop-
olis : and it is not improbable, but ttuit the circumstance
of his being a native of London, and his person not
much known in that part ot' the kingdom where the
rebellion took place, might facilitate his escape, and
be the means of preventing his being brought to trial
for bis share in the transaction. With die professions
of a writer and a soldier, Mr. De Foe, in the year
1B85, joined that of a trader ; he was first engaged cs
a hosier, in Cornhill, and afterwards as a maker of
tricks and pantiles, near Tilbury Fort, in Essex; but,
in consequence of spending those hours in the hilarity
of the tavern which be ought to have employed in the
calculations of the counting house, his commercial
schemes proved unsuccessful; and in 1694 he was
ob.i^ed to abscond from his creditors, not tailing to
attribute those misfortunes to the war and the severity
of the times, which were doubtless owing to his own
misconduct. It ie much to his credit, however, that
after having been freed from hisdebts bv composiuon,
and being in prosperous circumstances from King
William's favour, he voluntarily paid most of his cred-
itors both the principal and interest of their claims.
This is such mi example of honesty as it would be un-
juit to De Foe and to the world to conceal. The
amount of the sums tbus paid must have been very
considerable, as he afterwards feelingly mentions to
Lo:\! rlaversham. who had reproached him with cov-
etuusness; "\S'ith a numerous family, and no helps
bnt my own industry, I hi\ve forced my way through
a S!'a of misfortunes, and reduced my debts, exclusive
of composition, from seventeen thousand to less iV.ti
five thousand pounds"
At the beginning of the ycar 17I10, Mr. De Foe
published a satire in verse, whit-h excited very consid-
erable attention, called "the Trucbora Englishman."
Its pui-pose was to fm-uHi a reply to those who s ere
continually abus'n^ King William and some of his
friends ^foreigners, by shewing that the present race
of Englishmen was a rained snd heterogeneous brood,
scnrefly ttff of which could lav claim to native purity
of blood. The satire WHS in many parts very severe;
ant! though it gave high offence, it claimed a consider-
able share of the public attention. The reader will
perhaps be gratified by a specimen of this production,
wherein he endeavours to account for—
"What makes this disco: tented land appear
Less hap;'v now in times of peace., than war;
Why civil fends disturb the nation more,
Than all our bloody wars had ilone before:
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
Anvl men are always honest in disgrace;
The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they, who would be in them, would be worse.
'Tis not sit foreigners that we repine,
Would foreigner* their perquisites resign:
The grsnd contention's plainly to be seen,
To get sorre men put out, and some put in."
It will be immediately perceived that De Foe could
have no pretensions to the character ofapoet; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervous and well-ver-
sified Iines, aud in choice of subject and moral he is in
general excellent . The Trueborn Englishman con-
cludes thos:
Could but car ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see•their offspring thys degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
Am! buiid on (.heir past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And npen!j disown the vile degenerate race.
For fame Af families is all a cheat;
"TlS FXRSOKAL V1HTBK oITIY JIAKX• US CHEAT.
For this dfefence of foreigners I)e Foe was amply
rewarded by King William, who not only ordered him
a pension, but as his opponents denominated it, ap-
pointed him pamphlet-writer general to tte court; an
office for which he was peculiarly well calei luted, pos-
sessing, with a strong mind and a ready wit, that kind
of yielding conscience which allowen him to support
the measures of his benefactors, though convinced they
• 1WE Of BE FOB.
were'injurious to his country. De Foe now
to Newington with his family,and fora short time
fived at ease; but the death of hia royal patron depri-
ved him of a generous protector, and opened a scene
of sorrow which probably embittered his future life.
He had always discovered a great inclination to en-
gage in religious controversy, and the furious- contest,.
eivil and ecclesiastical, which ensued on the accession
nt'Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity of gratifying
his favourite passion. He therefore published a tract*
entitled "-The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, or
Proposals for the Establishmentofthe Cburch," which
contained an ironical recommendation of persecution,
but written in so serious a strain, that many persons,
particularly Dissenters, at first mistook its real inten-
tion. The high cburoh party, however, saw and full the
ridicule, and by their influence, a prosecution was
commenced against him,and a proclamation published
in the Gazette, offering a reward for his apprehension.*
When De Foe found with how much rigour himself.
and his pamphlet were about to be treated, he at first
secreted himself; but his printer and bookseller being;
taken into custody, he surrendered, being resolved,
"St James's, January 10,1702-3.
*" Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe,is chargeil:
with writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, en-
titled " Tlte Shortest Way with the Dissenters : "he
is a middle-sized spare man, about 40 years old, of a
brown complexion, and dark brown coloured hair, bat
wears a wig, a hooked nose, a sharp ehin, grey eyes,
and n large mould near his moutii, was born in London,
and for muny years »as a hose-factor, iit Freeman's
Yard, in Comhill, and now is owner of the-brick end
pantile works near Tilbury Fott, in Essex: whoever
shaM discover the sail? llanel.De Foe, to one of her-
Majij.sty'3 Principal Secretaries of State, or any of her
M:j-sty's Justices of I'eace, so as he may be apprehen-
dt-i!, slnll have a reward of 50/. which her Majesty
has ordered immediately to be paid upon such dis-
covery."
'Lmulin (/!.';. No. 3879.

LIFE OF EKE FOE. 7i
asheeipressed it," to throw himself upon the favour.
of government,ratter than that others should be ruin-
ed for his mistakes." In Jnly, 1703, be w.as brought
to trial, found guilty, and sentenced to he imprison-
ed, to stand in the pillory, and to pay a ftne of two
bundred marks. He underwent the infamous.part ot'i
the punishment with great fortitude, and it seems to
have been generally thought that he was-treated with
unreasonable severity. So far was he from being asha-
med of his fate himself, that he wrote a l!\mn to the
pillory, which tbus ends, alluding to his accusers;
Tell them, the men that p'.ae'd him here
Are scandals to the times;
Are at a loss to find his guilt)
And can't commit his .crimes.
Pope, who has. thought:fit to. introduce him in bis;
Dunciad (probably from no other reason than party
difference) characterises him in the following line:
Earless on high stood unabash'd De Foe.
This is one of those instances of injustice and malip;-.
aity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and;.
which re8ect more dishonour on the author than on,
the parties traduced. De F.oe lay friendless and dis-.
tressed in Newgate, h;s Family ruined, and himself,
without hopes of deliverance, till Sir. Robert Marley^.
who approved of liis principle?, and foresaw that dn-.
ring a factious age such a genins could be converted.
to many uses, represented his unmerited sufferings
to the Qut-en, and at length procured his release.
The treasurer, Lord (SoitidphiB, also sent a consider-,
able smji to his wife and family, and to him money to
pay his-fine and the expense of his discharge. Gratis
tude and fidelitv are inseparable from an honest man;
and it was this benevolent act that prompted De Foe
to support I lurler, with his able and ingenious pen,
when Anne lay lifeless, and his benefactor in the \i-
e;ssitude of parly was persecuted by faction and ovet
po.wt-red. though not conquered, by violence.
The tiler.ts and perseverence of De Foe began no
i» be propei'lv estimated, and, us a Srra suppurter
i
y
the administration, he was sent by Ixird Oodolphin
to Scotland, on an errand which, as he says, was far
from being unfit for a sovereign to direct, or an hon-
est man to perform. His knowledge of commerce
and revenue, his powers of insinuation, and above all
his readiness of pen, were deemed of no small utilitv,
in promoting the union of the two kingdoms; of vrhii'h
he wrote an able historj in 1709, with two dedications,
one to the Queen, and another to the Duke ofQueens-
bury. Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some
equivocal writings, rendered himself suspected by
both parties, so that he once more retired to Newing-
ton in hopes of spending the remainder of his days in
peace. His pension being withdrawn, and wearied
with polities, he began to compose works of a different
kind—The yenr 1715 may therefore be regarded as
the period of De Foe's political lif.-. Faction henceforth
found other advocates, and parties procured other
writers to disseminate their suggestions, and to pro-
pagnte their falsehoods.
In 1715 De Foe published the "Family Instructor;"
A work inculcating the domestic duties in a lively man-
ner, by narration and dialogue, and displaying much
knowledge of life in the middle ranks of society. "Ile-
ligiouB Courtship" also appeared soon after, which,
like the "Family Instructor," is eminently religious
and morsl in its tendency, and strongly impresses on
the mind that spirit of sobriety and private devotion
for which the dissenters have generally been distin-
guished. The most celebrated of all his works, "The
Life and Adventures of Hobinson Crusoe,'' appeared
In 1719. This work has passcd through numerous
editions, and been translated into almost all modern
languages. The great invention which is displayed in
it, the variety of incidents and circumstances which
it contains, related in the most easy and natural man-
cr, together with the excellency of the moral and reli-
gious reflections, rendered it a pcrfbrtmmce of very
1 tperior and uncommon merit, and one of the most in-
teresting works that ever appeared. It is strongly re-
commended by Rosseau,as a book admirably calenln-
sd te promote the purposci of natural education; &ai!
Dr. Blair says," No fiction hi any language, was ever
letter supported than the Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appearance
of truth and simplicity, which takes a strong hold of
tin: imagination of all readers, it suggests, at the same
time, very useful instruction; by shewing how much
sthe native poweiVofman may be exerted for sur-
mounting the difficulties of any external situation."
It has been pretended, that Be Foe surreptitiously
appropriated the papers of Alexander Selkirk, a-
Scotch mariner, who lived four years alone on the
island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of whose story
had before appeared in the voyage of Captain Woodes
Rogers. But this charge, though repeatedly and con-
fidently brought, appears to be totally destitute of any
foundation. De Foe probably took some general hints
for his work from the story of Selkirk, but there ex-
ists no proof whatever, nor is it reasonable to suppose
that he possessed any of his papers or memoirs, which
had been published seven years before the appear-
ance of Robinson Crusoe. As a farther proof of l)e
Foe's innocence, Captain Rogerfi's account of Selkirk.
may be produced, in which it is said that the latter
had ueitiw!r(prescrved pen, ink, or paper, and had inn
great measure lost his language; consequently De
Foe could r,ot have received any written assistance,
and we have only the assertion of his enemies to peeve
that he had any verbal.
The great success ofRoBinson Crusoe induced its
author to write a nnmber of other lives and adven-
tures, some of which were popular in their times,
though at present nearly forgotten. One of his lau-it
publications was "A Tour through the Island of
Great Britain,"". a performance of very uiferior mer-
it-: but De Foe woe now the garrulous- old man, and
his spirit (to use the words of an ingenious biographer)
"like a candle struggling in the socket, blazed and
sunk, blazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length m
total darkness." His laborious and unfortunate fife
was fuiished on the 26th of April, 1731, in the parish
of St. Giles's, Cripplegate.
Danel Defoe possessed very extraordinary talents;
VOL. i. A a
iis a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled to stand
Sn the foremost rank among his contemporaries, what-
ever may be their performances or their fame. His
sdistinguished characteristies arc originality, spu'it, and
a profound knowledge of Ma subject, and in these
particulars he has seldom been surpassed. As the
.author of Robinson Crusoe, he has u claim not only to
the admiration, but to the gratitude of his country-
men; and so long as we have a regard for superemi-
nent merit, and take an interest in the welfare of the
rising generation, that gratitude will not cease to exist.
But the opinon of the learned and ingenious Dr. Beat-
tie will be the best euloginm that can be pronounced on
that celebrated romance: "Robinsou Crusoe," says the
'Doctor, " must be allowed by the most rigid moralist
to be one of those novels which one may read, not only
with pleasure, but also with profit. Itbreathesthrough-
sout•i spirit of piety and benevolence; it sets in a very
ssticking light the importance of th? mechanic arts,
which they, who know not what it is to he without
YUem, areso apt to undervalue; it fixes in the mind a
'lively idea of the horrors of solitude, and, consequentlv,
-of the sweets of social life, and of the blessings we tle-
owe from conversation and mutual aid; and it shows
lajw,by labouring with one's own hands, one may se-
cure independence,aud open for one's self many sour-
ces of health and amusement." I airree, therefore,
with Rosscau, that it is one nf the best books that can
he put into the hands of children."
LIFE AND ABVENTURES
•v
ROBINSON CIUTSOE,
V WAS born in the year 1632, in the city ofYorK,
of a pood family, though sot of that country, my
father being H foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull : he (iot a good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, end from whom I was called Robinson
Kruutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in
Kngland, we are now called, nay we call oursclvesr
and write our name Crusoe, and so my companions
always called me.
I Imd two elder brothers, one of whom \vaa lien-
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flan-
ders, fe erly commanded by the famous Colonel
Lockha and w as killed at the battle near Dunkirk
agninst :Spaniards. What became of my second'
brother never knew, any more than my father or
mother ilid know what was become of me.
Being;4he third sou of the family, and not bred
10 "ny dw'e, my head began to be filled very early
with mtaUling thoughts: ts-f father, who was very an'
t';'i!t, ii..r given• ma a-uotuautent share of Uan.ing, as
J2 LIFE JtNTT ADVENTURES'
fir as house education and a country free-school gen-
erally go, and designed me for the law; but I would
he satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my in-
clination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands of my father, and against all the
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to he something fatal in
that propension of nature tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me seri-
ous and excellent counsel against what he foresaw
sWas my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and ex-
postulated very warmly with me upon this subject:
he asked me what reason more than a mere wander-
ing inclination I had for leaving my father's house and
my native country, where I might be well introduced,
and had a prospect of raising my fortune by applica-
tion and industrv, with a life of ease and pleasure.
He told'me it was for men of desperate fortunes on.
one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the oth-
er, who went abroad upon adventures, tn rise by
enterprise, and'make themselves famous in undertak-
ings of a nature out of the common road; that these
tilings were all either too far above me, or too far
telow me; that mine was the middle state, or what
might be called the upper station of lo~u> life, which
he had found by long experience waa-the best state
m the world, the most suited to buman happiness, not
opposed to the miseries and'hardships, the labours
and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and
not embarrassed'with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy ef the upper part of mankind. He told me I
might judge of the happiness of this state by one
thing, viz. that (his was the state of life which all
otfier people envied; that tings have frequently la-
mented the miserable consequences of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed in the
middle of the two extremes, between the mean and
the great; that the wise man gave his testirnony to
this as the just standard of true felicity, when'He pray-
ed ta have neither poverty nor riches.
OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. i
He bid me observe it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the up-
per and lower part of mankind; but that the middle
station had the fewest disasters, and was not expos-
ed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part
of mankind; nay, they were not subjected to so many
distempers, and uneasinesses, either of body or mind,
as those were, who by vicious living, luxury and ex-
travaganceSi on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the oth-
er handi bring distempers upon themselves by the
natural consequences of iheir way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of vir-
tues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that
temperance, moderation, quietness-, health, society, all-
agreeable diversion^ and all desirable pleasures,
were the blessings attending the middle station of
life; that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and comfortably out of it, not em-
barrassed with the labours of the hands or of the head,
nor sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or har-
rassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the
soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with
the passion of envy, or secret buroinglust of ambition
for great things; but in easy circumstances sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the
sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling that they
are happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to ptey the young man,
not to precipitate myself into miseries which nature
and the station of life I was barn in seemed to have
provided against; that I was under no necessity of
seeking my bread; that he would do well for me,
and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of
life which he had been just recommending to me;
and that if I was not very easy and happy in the
world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must hin-
der it, and that he should have nothing to answer for,.
Having tbus discharged his duty m warning me against
14 LIFB AND ABTENTURES 'J
s.
measures which he knew would he to my hurt: in a ./
word, that as he would do very kind things for 'me'-
if I would stay and settle at home as he directed, so
he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes,
as to give me any encouragement to go away : and
to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an
example, to whom he had used the same earnest per-
suasions to keep him from going into the Low Coun-
try wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; aud though he said he would not cease to pray
for me, yet he would venture to say to me, thatiti did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and
I would have leisure hereafter to re8ect upon having
neglected his coupset when there might be none to
assist in my recotei'y.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
»as truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did
not know it to be so himself; I say, 1 observed the
tears run down his face very plentifully, and especial-
ly when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and
that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent,
and none to assist me, he was so moved, that he broke
off the discourse, and told me, his heart was so fult
he could say no more to me.
I was sincerelv affected with this discourse, as in-
deed who could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father's desire. But alas! a few
days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of
ray father's further importunities, in a few weeks af-
ter I resolved to run quite away from him. Howev-
er, I did not act so hastily neither as my first heat of
resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time
s when 1 thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her, that my thoughts were so entirely bent
upon seeing the world, that I should never settle to
any thing with resolution enough to go through with
it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go appren-
tice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney i that I. *aa
sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time, and
1 should certainly ran away from my master before
my time was out, and go to sea ; and if she would
SjH-ak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad,
if t came dome again. and did not like it, 1 would go
nomore,und I would promise by a double diligence
to recover that time I had lost.
This ]iut my mother into a grrat passion: she told
me, she knew it would he to no purpose to speak to
luy father upon any such suhjrct ; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any
such thing so much for my burt; and that she won-
dered how I could think of any such thini; after such
a discourse as I had had with my father, and such
kind and tender expressious as she knew my father
had used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin
myself, there was no help far me; but I might de-
pend 1 ahonhl never hare tnw consent to it: that for
her part she would not have' so much hand in my
destruction ; and I should never have it to say, that
my mother was wi'.ling when my father \vas not.
Though my mother refused to movil to my fath-
er, yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported nil
the discourse to him, and that my fUtlier. after show-
ing a great concern at it, said to her wilh a sigh,
i' That buy might he happv if he would stay nt home;
hat if he goes abroad, he will he the most miserable
wretch that was ever born; 1 can give no consent to
i.."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though, in the meantime, I continued obsti-
nately deat'to all proposals of settling to business, and
frequently expostulating with my father and mother
nbnut their being 80 positively determined against
M<iat they knew my inclination prompted me to.
Bnt bem£ one day at Hull, where I went casually, and
without any purpose of makiagan elopement at that
timest but, I suy, being there, m:d one of my compan-
ions then going by sea to Ixmdon, in his father's
ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the
common allurement of seafaring men, viz. that it
should rost me cotlung for ray passage, I consnltei!
neither father or mother any more, nor so much s^
sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it
as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
lather's, without any consideration of circumstances or
-consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the
•first of September, 1651, I \rent on board a ship
hound for London. Never any young adventurer's
misfortunes,.! believe, began sooner, or continued lon-
ger than mine. The ship v as no sooner gotten out
'of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I
had never been a; sea before, 1 was most inexpres-
sibly sick in body, and terrified in mind. 1 began
now seriously to reflect npon what I had done, and
bow justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heav-
en for wickedly leaving my father's house, and
'abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of my pa-
rents, my father's tears and my mother's entreaties,
eame now fresh into my mind: and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to
Uhich, it has been since, reproached me with the con-
tempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God
-and my father.
AII this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after: but it
was enough to affect me then, who was but a joung
suitor, and had never known any thing of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never
rise more; and in tins agony of mind I made many
Tows aud resolutions, that if it would please God here
to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once my
foot upon Jry laud again, I would godirectlv home to
my father, and never set it into a ship again while I
lived; that I would take his advice, and never run
myself int'i-such miseries as these any more. Now
1 saw plainly the goodness of his observations about
the middle station of life, how easy, how comfor-
tably he had lived all his days, aud never had been
exposed to tempests at ses, or trouble! on shore:
and I resolved that 1 would, like a true repenting pro-
digal, go h'ome to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued dur-
ing the storm, and indeed Bome timr after;
but the next ilay as the wind was sibatpi!,in,l the
sen calmer, I hegan tobe a tiule inured to it:
however, I s as very grave for all that day. being
also still a little n-B-sick ; but Inwards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was qiote over, and a
chnrming fine evening followed; the sun went down
perfectly clear, and rose ao the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sex, the Stm
shining upon it, th» sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more
Sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking with won.
der upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the
day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant
in a little time after. And now, lest my good res-
olutions should continue, my companion, who had in-
deed enticed me away, came to me and said: " Well,
Hob," (clapping me upon the shoulder) "how do
you do after it? I warrant you were frighted, wa'n'i
you, last night, when it blcv but a capful of wind?'"
—" A capful do you call it i" said 1; "it was a ter-
rible storm."—" A storm, you fool you," replied he,
"do you call that a atorio ? why it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we think
nothmg of sueh a squall of wind as that; but you're but
a fresh-water sailor, Hob. Come, let us make u
bowl of punch^nd we'll forget all that; do you see
what charminlJPweather it is now?" To make short
this sad part of my story, we went the old way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk
with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
:dl my repentance, all my reflections upon my past
'conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. Iu
a word, as the sea viP returned to its smoothness of
surface and settled calmness by the abatement iif
that storm, so the horry of my thoughts being over,
nVy fears and apprehensions af being swallowed up by
fi& LIEE ANH ADVJ&NIrJRES-
the sea being forgotten, and the current of my foi'-.
mer desires returned, I.entirety forgot the vows and
promises that I made in my.distiess. I found, indeed,
some intervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts
did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as
it were from a distemper, and applying myself to
dirnking and company, soon maswred the return of
those fits, for so I.called them; and I had in five or
six days got as complete a victory over.eonscience,
as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled
with it could desire: butl.was to have another trial.
for it still; and Providenee^as in such-cases generally
U does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse:
for if 1i would- not take this for a deliverance, the
next was to he such a one as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess both the
danger and the mercy of.
The sixth day of our being at sea. we eame into
Yarmouth. Roads; the wind. having been contrary,.
and the weather calra,.we had made but. little way
since the storm.. Here we were obliged to come to-
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contra-
ry, viz.. at south-w est, for seven or eixht days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcastle came
into the same roads, as the common harbour where
the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but shnuM
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew
too fresh.; and after-we bad lain four or five days,.
blew very hard. However, the roads being reckon-
ed as good as a harbour, the-anchoragej;ood( and our.
ground tackle very strong, our men isfe unconcern-
ed, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but.
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of
the sea; but the eighth day in the morning the wind.
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our-
top-musts and make evx'ry thins snug and close, that.
the ship might ride as easy as pkssible. Ry noon the
sea wei;t very high indeed, and our ship rode Joreeatt*.
tie in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice ow »iKlm had tienit home; upv-u which our
icasfrr ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we
rode with two anchors abead, and the cables veer-
ed out to the bettrr enii.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the fa-
«es even of the seamen themselves. The master,.
though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship,,
yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could
hoar him softly say to himself several times, " Lord
be merciful to us! we shall be all lost, we shall be all
nndone!'' and the like. During these first horries I
was stupid,.. lying still in my cabin, which was' in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I could
ill reasnme the first penitence which.thad soappar-
ently trampled upon,.and hardened myself against:.
I thought the bitterness of death had been past, and
that this would be nothing like the first: but when the
master himself came by me> as I said just now, and
said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighten-
ed : I got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but
such a dismal sight L never saw; the sea w.ent moun--
tains high, and broke upon us every three or four
minutes: when I could look about, I" could see noth.--
ing but distress. round us : two ships that rid nean
us, we found had cut their masts by. the board,.
being deep laden; and our men cried out, that a
ship which rid about a mile abead of us was foun-
dered. Two more ships being driven from their an~
chors, were run out of the roads ta.sea, at all adven-
tures, and that with not a mast standing. The light
ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the
sea: but two or three-of them drove,.and came close
by us, running away with.only their sprit-sail out be-
fore the wind..
Towards evemng the mate and boatswain begged
the master of our ship to-lot them cut away the fore-
mast, which he was very unwilling to do: but the-
toatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the
ship wouhl founder, he consented; and when they
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so.
toose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged.
Hi eut tier away also, and make a clear declu
Any one may judge what a condition I must be i*
at all this, who was but a young siilo''. and who had
been in such a fright before at hnt a little. But if I
can express at this distance the thoughts that 1 had
nhoutme at that time, I was in tenfold mnre horrorof
mind upon account of my former convictions, and
the having returned from them to the resolutions I
had wickedly tuken at first, than I was at t eath itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me
in such a condition, that 1 can by no words describe
it But the worst was not come yet; the storm con-
tinued with such fnry, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never known a worse. We
had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and wallow-
ed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out, she would founder. It was my advantage
in one respect, that I did not know what they meant
liy founder till 1 inquired. However, the storm was
so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others more sen-
sible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting
every moment when the ship would go to the bot-
tom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been
down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a
leak; another said, there was four foot water in the
hold.. Then all hands were called to the pump. Af.
that very word my heart, as I thought,died withm me,
and I fell backwards upon the side ot'mv bed where
1 sat, into the csLin. However, the men roused me,
and told me, that I that was able to do nothing be-
fore, was as well able to pump as another; at which
I stin-ed up, and went to the pump and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing
some light colliers who, not able to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and
would r.ot come near us. ordered us to fire'a gun as a sig-
nal of distress. I, whoTcnew nothing nhatttiat meant,
WHS so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke,
or some dreadful tiling had happened. In a word, I wu
so surprised, that I fell down in * swoon. As this
was a time whon everjr body had his ewn life to
think of, nobody mindei'. me. or what was become
of me ; but another man stepped up to the pump, ami
thrusting Die aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
1 had been dead; and it was x^0. .at while before I
eamc to mvself.
We worked on ; but the water increasing in the
holtl, it was apparent that the ship wouM founder; and
though the storm began to abate a littte, vet ns it was
not possible she could swim till we migi.t run into a
port, so the master continued firing guns tor help, and
a light ship who had rid it out just ahead of us, ven-
tured a boat out to help us. It was with the ut-
most hazard the boat came near us, but it was impos-
sible for us to g«t ou board, or tor the boat to lie
ue.ir the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartilv, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men east them a rope over the steru with a buoy
to it, and then veered it out a great leugt!-, which they
after great labour and hazard took hold of, and we
hauled them close under om- stern, and got all into
their boat. It was tp^no purpose for them or us,
after we were in the boat, to think of reaching to
their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
. only to pull her in towardsaUoreas much as we could;
ind our master prondsed them, th.it if the boat was
staved upon ihore he would make it good to their
master: so partly rowing and partly driving, our
boat went away to the northward, sloping towards
the shore almost as far as VVintarton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship but we suw her sink, m.d then I
understood for the first time what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea. 1 must acknowledge I
had hardly eyes ton look up when the sea.nen told
me she was sit.king; Oir from that moment they rath-
er put me into the boat lhnu that I might he said to
go in; my heait was as it were, dead within me,
;wirtly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and
the tlioughts of what was yet In-fore me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet la-
bouring at the oar to bring tlit- boat near the slvre,
we coulu see, (when car boat mounting the waves, we
22 T1FE 'ANT) JLBVENTORES
were able to see the shore) a great many people run-
ning along the strand to assist us when we should
come near; bat we made but slow way towards the
shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till Ire-
ing past the light-house at Wintcrton, the 'shore falls
off to the westward touards Cromer, and so the land
broke oft'a little the violence of the wind. Here we
got in, and, though not without much difficulty, go't
all safe on shore, and walked afterwads on foot to Yar-
mouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used
with great homanity, as well'by the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by par-
ticular merchants and owners of ships, and had mon-
ey given us sufficient to tarry us either to London or
back to Hull, as we thought fit.
'Had'I now had the sense tohave gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had'been 'happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's para-
ble, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for
hearing the ship'I wertt away in, wascast away in Yar-
mouth |{imds, it Mas a great while before he had any
assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obsti-
nacy that nothing could resisit; 'and though 1 had seve-
ral times loud calls from my reason and my more com-
posed judgment to go 'home,yet!'had nopower to
do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge
that it is a secret overruling decree that burries us on
to be the instruments of our-own destruction, eve«
thongh it be before us,• and that we rush upon it
with our eyes open. Certainly, nothingbut some such
decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, should have push-
ed me forward against the calm reasonings and per-
suasions of my most retired thoughts, and against
two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me be-
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less for-
ward tkan I. The first time he spoke to me after
we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
days, fer -we were separated in the town to several
quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appear-
ed his tone was altered, and looking very melancho-
ly, and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and
telling his father who'! was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, m order to go-farther abroad;
his father turning' to rate with a- very grave and con-
scerned tone, "Yottfig man," says he," you ought
never "to go to sea any more ; you ought to take
this for a plain ind visible token that rou are not to
be a seafaring man."—" Why,'Sir/' saidSI, " will
vou go to sea ito more?" "That is another case," said
lie; "it is my calling, artil' therefore my duty; but
as you made this voyage for a trial, you see u hnt a
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect
if you persist: "perhaps this is all befallen us on your
account, like Jonab in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,
'i' continues he, " whatare you? and-on what account
did you go to sea."' Upon that I told him some of
ray story; at the end of which he burst out in a
strange kind 'of passion; "What had 1 done," says
lie," that such an unhappy wretch shori'ut come into
my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship
"with thee again ftr a thousand pounds" This in-
deed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
"farther than he could have authority togo. Howev-
er, he afterwards 'talked very gravely to me, ex-
porting me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin ; told me' I might see a visi-
ble hand of Heaven against me. "And youngman,"
said he, "depend upon it, if you do not po back,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your farther'!
words are fulfilled upon you."
AVe parted soon after; for I made him little an-
swer, and I saw him no more: which way he went,
1 know not. As for me, having some nioney in my
pocket, I travelled to London by land : and there, as
well as on the road, had many struggles with myself,
what coarse of life 1 should take, and whether 1 should
. go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best notwtts
that offered to my thoughts; audit immediately oc-
curred to me how 1 slmuld be laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even every hody else;
from whence J have since often observed, how incon-
gruous aud irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially ofyouth, to th:it reason which ought to
i-uidc them in such cases, viz. that they are not
ashamed tn sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
nor ashamed of the action for which they ought justly
to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the return-
ing, which only can make them be esteemed wise
men.
In this state of life however, 1 remained some
time, uncertain what measures io take. HIM! what
course of iifeto lead. An irresistible reluctance con-
tinued to going home; and us 1 stayed a while, the
remembrance of the distress 1 had been in wore off;
and as that abated, the little notion I had in my de-
sires to a return wore off with it, till nl last I quitO
laid aside tUe thoughts of it, and looked out fora
vovflge.
That evil influence which carried me fimt away
ffo:u my father's house: that horried me into the wild
a;!il indigested notion of raising my fortune; and that
Hunrfssc•! those conceits so forcibly upon me as to
make me deaf to all good advice, and tn the entrea-
ties and even the command of my father: I &'ty, the
s:ime influence, whatever it was, preset ted the most
untortuni.le of nil enterprises to nt\ view; niul I went
on In ,ri! a vessel hound to tin: coast of Africa; or, aa
our siiiors vulgarly call it, a voyage to finirca.
It was my great misfortune that in all these nd-
ventuivs I did not :;hip ;mseU'as a sndor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked u little harder
tbUn ordm:tr\, yet at th,' .SHiue lime I !';ui lenfnt the
duty jufJ offiee of a fon-m i^tni.'D; :uid in time might
have qiuntticd m\seU' l"ir ;; mate or lientenai•t, ifaot
for H master. Uut aa it was :d WHJ s my fate tn choose
for the \vome,so 1 did here; for ha\i:.g money in my
pocket, and good clothes upon iuy back, 1 would :d-
wajes go oo board in the habit ofa genUeRtan; artd
so I neither had any business in the ship, or learnt to
do am.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with me.
1 first fell acquainted with the master of a ship who
had been on the coast of Guinea; and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again;
and who, taking a fancy to my conversation, which.
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me
say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would
go the voyage with him, I should be at no expense;
I should be his messmate and his companion, and if I
could carry any thing with me, I should have all the
advantage of itthatthe trade would admit; and per-
haps I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with the captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I in-
creased very considerably; for 1 caried about 40/. in
such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to
buy. This 40/. I had mustered together by the as-
islance of some of my relations whom I corresponded
with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least
my mother, to contribute so much as that to my firs'
adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of
the mathematies and the rules of navigation, learnt
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an
observation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were needfttl to be understood by a sailor: for,
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant: for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure,
voi. i. B
which yielded me in London at my return almost
300/. and in this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have so completed my ruin.
Yet even In this voyage I had my misfortunes too:
particularly, that 1 was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I
embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate tn the former voyage, and had uow got the
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
carry quite 1001. of my new gained wealth, so that I"
had 200?. left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yet Uell into ter-
rible misfortunes in this voyage: and the first wa3
this, viz. our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprised in the grey of the
morning by a Turkish rover of Bailee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crow-
ded also as much canvass as our yards would spread,
or our masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. A-
fcout three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, in-
stead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in
a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off'
again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also his
small shot from nearly 200 men which he had on
hoard. However, we had not a man touched, all our
men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again,
and we to defend ourselves; but laying na on board
the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty
anen upon our decks, who immediately fell to cut-
ting and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied
them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and
such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our stray,
our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed
and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and
were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging.
to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended: nor was I carried up the country
to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain o'f the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, beingyoungand nimble, and
fit for his business. At this surprising change of my
circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave,
I was perfectly overwhelmed; arid now I looked back
upon my Father's prophetic discourse to me, that I
should be miserable, and have none to relieve me,
which I thought was now so effectually brought to
pass, that I could not be worse , that now the hand
of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone with-
out redemption: but alas! this was Imt a taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the se-
qual of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his house, sol was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it
would some time or other he his fate to be taken by
a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and that then 1'
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and to do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me
to ^ lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I would take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it: nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational ; for I had nobody
to communicate it to, that would embark with me, no
fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman
there but myself; so that for two years, though V.
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I n*yr.
er had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in
practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presen-
ted itself, which put the old thought of miking some
attempt for my liberty again in my head: my patron
lying at home longer than nsual without fitting out
his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money,
he used constantly, once or twice* week, sometimes
oftner, if the weather wss fair, to take the ship's pin-
nace and go out into the road a-fishing; and as heal*
ways took me and a young Moresco with him to row
the boat, we made him very merry, and I profed
very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that some-
times he would send me with a Moor, one of his kins-
men, and the youth the Moresco, as they called him,
to catch a dish et'fish for him. .
It happened one time, that going a-fi shing in a stark
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore we lost sight of
it; i'nd rowing, we knew not whither Or which way,
we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when
the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea
instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were
at least two leagues from the shore: however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labour and
some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning; but particularly we were all very
bungry.
Bat our patron, warmed by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any
more without a compass and some provision; so he
ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an En-
glish slave, to build a little stateroom, or cabin,in the
middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the
main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to
stand and work the sails: she sailed with what we call
a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom gibed over
the top of the cabin, which lay very suug tnd low,
and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two.
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put
in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink;
particularly his bread, rice and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing,
and, as I was most de\tt rons to catch fish Tor him, he
never went without me. It happened that he had ap-
pointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moores of distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on board the boat over-night
a larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had
ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and
shot, which were o» hoard his ship; for that they
designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing
1 got all things ready as he had directed, and wait-
ed the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
ensign and pendants oat, and every thing to accom-
modate his guests ; when by and bye my patron came
on board alone, and told me his guests had put off
going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered
me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
hoat and catch them some fish, for that his frienda
were to sup at his house; and commanded that ai
soon as I got some fish 1 should bring it home to his
house; all which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was liketa
have a littlr ship at my command; and my master be-
ing gone, t prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing
business, but for a voyage; though 1 knew not, neith-
er did I so much as consider, whither I should steer;
for any way to get out of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told hhn we must not presume to eat of
our patron's bread; he said that was true: so he
brought a large basket of rusk or bisket of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I
knew where my patron's case o£ bottles stood, which
it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some
English prize, and 1 conveyed them hito the b.bat while
the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there be-
fore for our master: I conveyed also a great lump of
bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above half a
hondred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to make
candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently enme into also; his name was Ismael, whom
they call "Muly, or Moley ; so I called to him: " Mol-
cy," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat;
can you not get a little powder and shot? It may be
we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews)
for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores
in the ship."—" Yes," says he," I'll bring some;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which
held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather
more; and another with shot, that had five or six
pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat:
at the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of
the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty,
pouring what was in it into another; and tbus furnish-
ed with every thing needful we sailed out of the port
to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, knew wha we were, and took no notice of us: and
we were not rbove a mile out of the port before we
haled in oar sail, and set us down to fish The wind
blew from the N. Ne. E., which was contrary to my
desiri ; for had it hlowu southerly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and "t learit reached
to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow
which way it would, I would be gone fr'm that hor-
rid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
Aft"rwe had fished sometime and catchrd nothing,
for when I haii fish 0i: my hook I would not pull them
up, that he i 'is;ht not see them, 1 suit! to the .Moor,
"This will not do; our master will not be .tbus ser-
ved; we must stand farther nff." He, thinking no
harm, agreed, and being in the head of the boat, set
the sails; and as I had the helm I run the boat out
near a league farther, and then brought her to as if I
would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if
I stooped for something behind him, I took him by
surprise with my arm under his waist, and tossed
him clear overboard into the sea; he rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cork, and cilled to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over
the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching out one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had done
him no burt, and if he would be quiet I would do him.
none: u But," said I, " you awim well enough to
reach to the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm;
but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty;" so
he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and
I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he
was an excellent swimmer.
1 could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I
turned to the bny, whom they called Xury, and said
to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll
make you a great man 3 but if you Mill not stroke
your face to be true to me," that is, swear by .Maho-
met and his father's beard, I niust throw you into
the sea too." The hoy smiied in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I couhl not mistrust him; and
swore to be fuithiul to me, and go id! over the world
with me.
While ! was in virw of the Moor that was swim-
ming, 1 stood out directly to sea with the boat,rather
strt-tching to windward, that they 1! Jit think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth; (as indeed anyone
thiit had been in their wits must hn\e been supposed
to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward to the truly barbarian coast,
where whole nations ofNegroes were sure to sur-
round us with their canoes, and destroy us; where
wu could never »nce go eu share but we should be
devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of buman kind?
Hut as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and by
east, bending my course a little toward the east, that i
night keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such
sail that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in.
th? afternoon, when I first made the land, I could not
be less than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
tbeir hands, that 1 would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
wonld now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what lati-
tude, what country, what nation, or what river; I
neither saw, nor desired to see any people ; the prin-
cipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the country; but
as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful
neises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, of we knew nolofwlmt kinds,that the poor
boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not
to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," suid I,
"then I won't; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as Dad to us as those lions."—
"Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, "make them run wey." Such English
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave
him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good,
and I took it; we dropped oar little anchor, and lay
still all night; 1 say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we
knew hot what to call them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea shore and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cool-
ing themselves; and they made such hideous howl-
ings and yel lings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was
I too; but we were both more frighted when we heard
one of those mighty creatures come swimming to-
wards our boat; we could not see him, but we might
hear^iim by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and
furious beast: Xury said it was a lion, and it might
be so for ought 1 know; but poor Xury cried to me
to weigh the anchor and'row away: rt No," says I,
"Xury; we can slip our cable with the buoy to it,
and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had
no sooner said so, than I perceived the creature (what-
ever it was) within two oar's length, which some-
thing surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin-door, and takingup my gun fired at him;
upon which be immediately turned about, and swam
towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howling, that were raised^ as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing
I have some reason to believe those creatures had
never heard before: this convinced me there was no
going on shore for- us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another
questisn too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of lions and tigers ; at least we were equal-
ly apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
left in the boat; when or where to get it, was the
point: Xury said, if I would let him go on shone with
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water,
and bring some to me. Tasked him why he would
go.' why I should not go, and he stay in the boat
VoI. i. fi 2
The boy answered with so much affection, that made
me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans
come, they eat me, you go wey."—" Well, Xury,"
said I, " we will both go, and if the wild mans come,
we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us." So I
gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned
before; and we haled the boat in as near the shore as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore; carry-
ing nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it;' and by and by I saw him,
come running towards me. I thought he was pursued
by some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and
I run forward towards him to help him; but when I
came nearer to him, I saw something banging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs;
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very
good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came
with, was to tell me that he had found good water,
and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so we
filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no foot-
steps of any homan creature in that part of the coun-
try.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and
not exactly knowing, or at least remembering what
latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these Islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along
this coast till I came to that part where the English
traded, I should find some of their vessels upon then-
usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us
in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was, must he that country, which, lying between
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions ^- the Negroes,
lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild beasts;
the negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not think-
ing it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness;
and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodigi-
ous number of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furi-
ous creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors
use it for their bunting only, where they go like an
army, two or three thousand men at a lime; and in-
deed for near an hondred miles together upon this
coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited coun-
try by day, and heard nothing but bowlings and
roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneriife, being the high top of the Mountain
• Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so I
rrsolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
nfter we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor
under a little point of land which was pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay slill to go
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seem* mine were, calls softly to me, ami tells
me that we had best go farther otftJie shore : " for,"
•ays he, "look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock fast asleep." I looked where he
pointed, nnd saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it
waa a terrible great lion that lav on the tide of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that bung
as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, "vOU
shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked fright-
ened, and said, \^Me kUl ! he eat me at one mouth;"
one mouthful he meant: however, I said no more to
the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces, I
loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim
I could with the first piece to have shot him in the
head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up, growling at first, but
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he began to move off,
fired again, and shot him in the head, and had the
pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise,
but lie struggling fiir life. Then Xury took heart.
and would have me let him go on shore : " Well, go,"
sakl t; so the boy jumped into the water, and taking
* little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the
ether hand, and coming close to the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the
head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and'I was ven- sorry to loose three charges of powder
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, Xury said he would have some of
Tiim ; so he comes on board, and asked me to give
1iiiu the hatchet. "For what, Xury ?" said I, "Me
cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could
not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself however, that perhaps the skin
of him might one way or other he of some value to
us i and I resolved to take off his skin if I could.
So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very
ill how to do it. Indeed it took us both up the whole
day, but at last we got off the hide of him, and spread-
ing it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried
it in two days time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water; my design in this was, to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, any
where about the Cape de Verd, where I wns in hopes
to meet with some European ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to tnke, but to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, make this Cape, or those islands; and
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship,
or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited; and in two or three places, as we
sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look
at us; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark nuked. I was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them ; but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, "No go, n6 go" However, I
hauled in nearer the shore that I mighttulk tothem,
and I found they run along the shore by me a good
way: I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance, and that thcr would throw
them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a dis-
tance, but talked with them by signs as well as I
could; and particularly made signs for something to
eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they
would fetch me same meat. Upon this I lowered the
top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up
into the country, and in less lhan half an hoar came
back, and brought with them two pieces ofdty flesh
and some corn, such as is the produce of their coun-
try i but we neither knew what the one or the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but how
to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for
venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and
went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an opportunity
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully;
for while we were lying by the shore came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury from the mountains towards tlw
sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not
tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual
or strange, but 1 believe it was the latter; because, in
the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom ap-
pear but in the night; and in the second place, we
found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart, did
not fly from them, but the rest did; however, as the
two creatures ran directly into the water, they did
not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but
plunged themselves into the sea and swam about as
if they had come for their diversion. At last one »f
them began to come nearer our boat than I at first
expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load the others: as soon as he came fairly within my
reach I fired, and shot him directly in the head; im-
mediately he sunk down into the water, but rose in-
stantly, and plunged up and down as if he was strug-
gling for life; and so indeed he was; he immediate-
ly made to the shore ; but between the wound, whtch
was his mortal burt, and the strangling of the water,
be died just bcCwe be scathed, t
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun;
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and
fell down as dead with the very terror. But when
they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water,
and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and came to the shore, and began to
search for the creature. I found him by his blood
staining the water, and by the help of a rope, which I
slung round him, and gave the Negroes to hale, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable de-
gree, and the Negroes held up their hands with ad-
miration to think what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they came,
nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eatiag the flesh of
this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me, which, when I made signs to them,
that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately thev fell to work with him, and
though they had no kmfe, yet with a sharpened piece
of wood they took off his skin as readily, and much
more readily, than we could have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as if I would give it them, but made signs for
the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provision, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted; then I
made signs to them for some water, and held out one
of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
filled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose,
in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and
I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as the
men,
I was now furnished with roots and corn, sueli as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me; and, the sea being
very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point;
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to
seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Vettl, and those
the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should be
taken with a gale of wind I 'might neither reac\ one
nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, T stepped
into the cabin and sat me down,Xury having the helm,
when on a sadden the boy cried out, " Master,
Master, a ship with St sail!" and the foolish bny was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs he
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
1 jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not
only the ship, but what she was, viz. that it.was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I observed
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they
were bound'some other way, and did*noI design to
come auy nearer the shore; upon which I stretched
out to sea as much as I could, resolving ta speak w ith
them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I .should
not be able to came in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any signal to them;
bat after I had crowded to the utmost 'and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some Kuropean
boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that w:is lost; so they shortened sail to let me
come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had.
my patron's ensign on board, I made a waft of it to
them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both
which they saw, for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the guu : upon these signals
they very kindly brought ta, and lay by for me, and
in about three hours time I came up with them.
Thev asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French; but I understood none of
them; but at last a(Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered lmn, and told Mm I
was an Englishman, that J had made my escape out
of slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bade
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one
would believe lhat I was tbus delivered, as I esteemed
it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless con-
dition as I was in, and immediately offered all 1 had to
the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliver-
ance; but he generously told me, he would take no-
thing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
snfc to me when I came to the Brazils; "For," says
he, " I have saved your life on no other terms than
I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one
time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. "Besides, said he, " when I carry you to
the Brazils, so great a way from your own country,
if I should take from yon what you have, you will be
starved there, and then I only take away that life I
have given. No, no,SeignorInglese,"sayshe, ("Mr.
Englishman,) I will carry you thither in charity, and,
those things will help yuu to buy your subsistence
there, and your passage home again.''
As be was charitable in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered thesea-
4tien, that none should offer to touch any thing I had:
theu he took every thing into bis own possession, and
pave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them; even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me \vhat I would have for it? I told
him he had been so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces
of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it np:
he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my
boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was
very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it
to be just, and offered me this medinm, that he would!
give the boy an obligation to set him free in tea
years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury
saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain
have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Buy de Tudos los Santos, or All Saint's
Kay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable ot"
all conditions of life; and what to do next with my-
self I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember: he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, winch I
bad in my ho.it, and caused every thing I !KIi| in the
ship to he punctually delivered to me; an;! what I s;is
willing to sell he bought, such as the case ofbottirs,
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump nf bees-
wax, for I had made camtifs of the rest: in a word,
I made about two buirlred and tuentv pi'•ces of eight
of all my cargo; and with this stock I went on shore
in ihe KraVils
I bad not been longhere, before I was recommend-
ed to die ho'J9i. of a good bo'iesf man like himself, who
had an i'ifnno us the; call it; that is, a plantation
and a su^nr.liouse ; I Hrrd with him some time, and
acquainted myself by that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
-well the planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turB planter among them, resolving, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money,
which 1 had left in London, remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation
and settlement, and such a one as might he suitable
to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from Kngland.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, whose name was Wells, and
in much such circumstances as I was. I call him my
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very sociably together. My stock
was but low, as well as his: and we rather planted,
for fond than any thing else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of
ground ready for planting cane in the vear to come;
but we both wanted help -, and now I found, more
than before, I bad done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
But, alas! for me todo wrong, that neverdid right,
was no great wonder: 1 had no remedy but to go tm;
1 was gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genins, and directly contrary to the life 1 delighted in,
and for which 1 forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very mi'ldle station, i;r upper degree of low life,
which my father advis' d me to before; and which, if
I resolved to go on, with, 1 might as well have stsid at
home, and never have JAtijued myself in the world as
I had done; and 1 used often to say to myself, I
conM have done this as well in England ahtongst my
friends, ss havi gone five thousaud miles oflTto do it,
among strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at
such diittnce. as never to henr from any part of the
world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner 1 used to look upon my condition
"with the utmost regret. 1 had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work to
be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I used'
to say, 1 lived just like a man cast away upon some
desolate island, that had nobody there but himself.
But how just has it been, and how should all men
reflect, that, when they compare their present condi-
tions with others thatare worse, Heaven may oblige
them to make the exchange, and be convinced oftheir
former felicity, by their experience; I say, how just
has it been, that the truly solitary life 1 reflected on in
An island of mere desolation should be my lot, who
had so often unjustly compared it with the life which
I then led, in which, had 1 continuod, I had in all
probability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrymg on the plantation, before my kind friend the
contain of the ship, that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there, in providing his
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
month's; when, telling him what little stock I had left
behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and
sincere advice. " Seignor Inglese," says he, for so he
always called me, " if you will give me letters, and a
procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send vour
effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct' and
in such goods as are proper for this country, I will
bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; but since buman affairs are all subject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give order*
but tor one bundred pounds sterling, which you say
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; so that if it comes safe, you may order the
rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for jour supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked 30
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
tettem to the gentlewoman with whom I bad left I0y
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain,
as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the bu-
mamty of his behaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necissary directions for my supply;
and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means, by some of the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order ouly, but a full account of
my story to a merchant at London, who represented
it effectually to her; whereupon, she not only deliver-
ed the money, but out of her own pocket sent the
Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his
bumanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had writ-
ten for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he
brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in
my business to think of them) he had taken care to
have all sortsof tools, iron-work, andutensilsnecessary
for my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
Wheu this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for 1 was surprised with the joy of it; and my
good steward the captain had laid out the five pounds
which my friend had sent him as a present for him-
self, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under
bond for six years service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all Kng-
fish manufactures, such as cloth, studs, baize, and
things particularly valuable and desirable in the coun-
try, I found means to sell them to a very great advan-
tage; so that I may say, I had more than four times
the value of my first cargo, and was now inBnitely
beyond my poor neighbour, ( mean in the advance-
ment of my plantation; for the first thing t did, I
bought me a Negro slave, and an European servant
also! I mean another besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation: 1 raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
my own ground, more than 1 had disposed of for
necessaries among my neighbours; and these fifty
rolls, being each of above one buudred weight, were
well cured and laid by against the return of the fleet
from Lisbon. And now, increasing in business and
in wealth, my head began to be full of projects aud
undertakings beyond my reach; such as are indeed-
often the rein of the best heads in business...
Had 1 continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have befallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a
quiet retired life; and of which he had so sensibly de-
scribed the middle station of life to be full; but other
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful
agent of all my own miseries; and particularly to in-
crease my fault, and double the reflections upon my-
self, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure
to make; all these miscarriages were procured by my
apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination
of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination,
in contradictiou to the clearest views of doing myself
good in a fair and plain pursnit of those prospects
and those measures of life, which nature and Provi-
dence concurred to present me with, and to make my
duty.
As I had done this in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not he content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view I: had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and tbus I cast myself
down sgain into the deepest gulph of buman misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consist-
ent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come then bo just degrees to the particulars of
this part of my stoiy; you may suppose, that having
BOW lived almost four fears in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plan-
tation. I had not only learnt the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that in my dis-
eourse among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
the manner of trading with the Negroes there, and
how easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for tri-
fles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets,,
bits of glass, and the like, not only gold-dust, Gui-
nea grains, elephants teeth, See. but Negroes for the
service of the Brazils in great numbers
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially "to that" part
which related the buying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assientos
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and
engrossed the public, so that few Negroes were
bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened,. being. in company with some mer-
ohants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to
me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what 1 had discoursed with
them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret proposal to me; and after enjoining me secre-
cy, they told me, that they had a mind to fit out a
ship to go t.o Guinea; that they had all plantations as
well a 1, and were straitened for nothing so much as
servants; that as it was a trade that could not be
carried on, because they could not publicly sell the
Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make ,but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own planta-
tions; and in a word, the Question, was, whether I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the?
trading part upon the coast ol' Guinea? and they off-
ered me that I should have my equal share of the
Segroes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a'fair
way of condng to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But for me, that was tbus entered and
established, and had nothing to do but po on as I had
begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the otheir hondred ponnds from England; and
who, in that time, with that little addition, could
scarce have foiled of being worth three or four thous-
and pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to
thinkofsuch a voyage was the mostpreposterousthing
that a man, in such circumstances, could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer,
eould no more resist the offer than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I
would go with all my heart, if they would undertake
to look after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarri-
ed. This they all engaged to do, and entered into
writings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal
will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of
my death, making the captain of the ship that had
saved my life as before, my universal heir, but oblig-
ing him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in
my will, one half of the produce being to himself, and
the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve tnr
effects and keep up my plantation: had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own inter-
est, and have made a judgment of what I ought to
have done, and not to have done, I had certainly
never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking,
leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was burried on, and obeyed blindly the dic-
tates of my fancy rather than my reason : and accord-
ingly the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnish-
ed, and all things done as by agreement by my part-
ners in the "voyage, I went on board in an evil hour,
the 1st of September, 1659, being the same day eight-
Years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
m order to act the rebel to their authority, and the
fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about one hondred and twenty tons
burden, carrying six guns, and fourteen men, besides
the master, his boy, and myself; we had on board no
large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit
for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits
of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little look-
ing-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with,
design to stretch over for the African coast; whe»
they came abuut 10 or 12 degrees of northern lati-
tude, which it seems was the manner of their course
in those days. We had very good weather, only ex-
cessive hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we
made the height of Cape St. Augustino, from whence
keeping farther off at sea we lost sight of land, ani*
steered as if we were bound for the isle Ferrand de
Noronha, holding our course N. E. by N. and leaving
those isles on the east. In this course we passed the
line in about twelve days time, and were by our last
observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude,
when a violent tornado or burricane took us quite out
of our knowledge; it began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled into the
northeast, from whence it blew in such a terrible
manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive; and scudding away before it, let
it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds
directed; and during these twelve days, 1 need not
say that I expected every day to be swallowed np,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their
lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men die of the calenture, and one
Man and the boy washed overboard; about the l#th
vOE. I. C
//:
-, ,
80 llfrE AND ADVENT»RES
day the weather abating a little, the master made ail
^Observation as well as he could, and found that he was
In about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22
-degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St.
Augustino: so that he found he was gotten upon the
rtonst of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, beyond
''the river Amazone, toward that of the river Oro-
'noque, commonly called the Great River, and be-
gan to consult with me whal course he should take,
for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, and
lie was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
1 was positively againstthat, and looking over the
tharts of the sea coast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to, till we came within the circle of the
Carribbee islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Harbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to
'avoid the indraft of the bay or gulph of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen
'^lays sail; whereas we coul J not possibly make oar
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance,
''ioth to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steer-
$d away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of our
^English islands, where F hoped for relief; but oar
'voyage was otherwise determined; for being in the
'latitude of 12 deg. IS rain, a second storm came upon
'Ws, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all
jjturaan commerce, that had all our lives been saved,.
AS to the sea, we were rather 4Q danger sf being de-
voured by savages thau ever returnmg to our own
country.
"In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men early in the m orning cried ou t, Land.'
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look
Out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we
were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a mo-
nxMt. her motion being so stopped, the sea broke
'Over her in such a manner, that we expected we
tshoukl all have perished immediately -t and we were
driven into our close quarters to shelter
as from the foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
drtven, whether an island or the main, whether inhab-
ited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind
was still great, though rather less than at first, we
'could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind
by a kind of miracle shoald turn immediately about.
In * word, we sat looking one upon another, and ex-
pecting death every moment, and every man acting
accordingly, as preparing for another world, for there
was little 'or nothing more for us to do in this; that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort
'we had, was, that contrary to our expectation, the
ship did not break yet, and that the master said the
wind began to abate.
Now though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having tbus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as
we could. We had > bo»t at our stern, just before
the storm; but she was first staved by dashing against
the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
•way, and either sunk or was driven to sea; so there
was no hope from her. We had another boat on
board, but how to get her off into the sea was s
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to de-
bate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute, and some told us she was actually
broken already.
la this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men,
they got her slung over the ships side, and getting all
into her,lethergo,andcommilledourselvs,neingelev-
sn in number, to God's mercy and the wild sea; for
the storm was abated considerably, yet the
sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might
well be called den wild :ee, as the Dutch call the sea
in a storm.
And now our ease was very dismal indeed ; for we
«11 saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that the
boat could not live, and that we should be inevitablv
drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if
we had, could we have done any thing with it; so we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with
heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for we alt
knew, that when the boat eame nearer the shore,
she would be dashed iuto a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls
to God in the most earnest manner; and the wind
driving ns towards the shore, we hastened our des-
truction with our own hands, palling as well as we
•ould towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, wheth-
er steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that
Kouhl rationally give us the least shadow of expecta-
tion, was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf,
or the mouth of some river, where, hy great chance
we might have ran our boat in, or got under the lee
of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But
there was nothing of this appeared; and as we made
nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed or rather driven about a league
and a half, as we had reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly
bade us expect the cnup-de-grace. In a word, it
took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at
once; and separating qs, as well from the boat »
from one another, gave us not time hardly time to
say O God 1 for we were all swallowed up in a mo-
ment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water: for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
hiving'driven me, or rather carried me a vast way on
tiwimls the shore, and having spent itself, went back,
and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. 1 had so ranch presence
of mi.id, as well as breath left, that, seeing myself
nearer the main land than 1 expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land
as fast as I could, before another wave should return,
and take me up again. Bat I soon found it was im-
possible to avoid it: for I saw the sea come after me
as high aa a great hill, and as furious as iui enemy,
which 1 had no means or strength to contend with;
my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself
upon the water, if I could; and so, by swimming to
preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the
shore, if possible; my greatest concern now being,
that the sea, as it would carry me a great way to-
wards the shore when it came on, might not carry
me back again with it when it gave back towards
the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, burried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and
I could feel myself carried with a mighly force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great u-ay ; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to s»im still for-
ward with all my might 1 was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up,
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though
it was uot two seconds of time that I could keep my-
self so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and
new courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it out; end finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo-
ments to recover breath, and till the water went from
me, and then took to my heels, and run with what
strength I had farther towards the shor.-. But neither
vould this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which
eame pouring in after me rgain: and twice more I
waft lifted up by the waves and carried forwards. as
before, the shore being very fiat.
The last time of these two had well near been fetal
to me; for the sea having burried me along as be-
fore, lauded me, or rather dashed me against a piece
of a rock, and Ihat with such ibrce, as it left me sense-
less, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance s
for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath
as it were quite out of my body; and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water, but I recovered a little before the return of
the waves, and seeing I should be covered again with
the a ater, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the
wave went back. Now as the waves were not so high
as at first, being near land. I held my held till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
brought me so near the shore, that the next wave,
though it went over me. yet did not so swallow met
up as to carry me away: and the next rur I took!
got to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat tne down
upon the irrass. free from danger, and quite out of
the reach of the water.
I was DOW laruU-d, and safe on shore, and began t(*
look up and thank God that my life was saved in a
case wherein there were some minutes before scarce
any room to hope I believe it is impossible to ex-
press to the life what the eestasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out
of the very grave ; and I do not wonder new at that
custom. viz. that when a malefactor, who has the hal-
ter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him: I say,
I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to
let him blood that very moment they tell him of it,
iliat the surprise mar not drive the animal spirits from
the heart and overwhelm him:
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands
,and my wb,ole being, as I may say, wrapped up is th%
wntemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe^ reflect-
ing upon all my comrades that were drowned, and
that there should not be one soul saved but myaelf;
for, as for them, I-never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and
two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded' vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off/and considered, Lord t
how -was it possible I could get on shore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I' began to look round me, to
see -what kind of a place I was in, and what was next
to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate,
and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance; for
I WAS wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing
either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I
see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with
honger, or being devoured by wild beasts; and that
whieh was particularly afflicting to me, was, that t
had ne weapon either to bunt and kill any creature
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any-
other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs:
in a v?ord, 1 had nothing about me but a knife, a
tobacco pipe, and n little tobacco in a box; this was
all my provision, and this thre\v me into terrible ago-
nies of mind, that for a while I run about like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, ibegan with a heavy-
heart to consider what would be my lot if there were
any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night
they always eome abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir;
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolv-
ed to sil all night, and consider the next day what
death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect iif
h'fr. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water to driuk, which 1 did,
to m y great joy; and having drank, and put a liulo
tabasco in my mouth tA•nrcvent. hanger,,
the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to plane
myself so, as that if I should sleep, I might not fall,
and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for
ray defence, i took up my lodging, and having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition, and found myself the most refreshed with
it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad d ay, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sfa did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most
was, that the ship was lifted off in the night from the
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I first
Mentioned, where 1 had been so bruised by the waves
dashing me against it; this being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some necessary things for my
use.
When I came down from my apartment in tha tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I found
tvas the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water
'between me and the boat, which was about half s mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ahi|i, where 1 hoped to
fiud something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the (hip; and here I found afresh
renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe, that is to
say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now WHS. This forced tears
from my eyes again; but as there was little rcliefis
that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I
'my ctothca, for (he weather was ho; to ev
tremity, and took the water; but when 1 came to the
ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to
get on board; for as she lay aground, and high out of
the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second
time 1 espied a small piece of a rope, which 1 wonder-
ed I did no see at first, hang down by the fore-chains
so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it,,
and by the help of that rope, got up mto the fore-castle
of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she
lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and.
her head low almost to the water: by this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part
was dry; for you may be sure my first work was to
search and to see what was spoiled and what was free;
and first 1 found that all the ship's provisions were
dry a:id untouched by the water; and being very weft
disposed to eat, 1 went to the bread-room and filled
my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about'
other things,for I had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great cabin, of which 1 took a large
dram, and which Thad indeed need enough of to spirit
me for what was before me Now 1 wanted nothing
but ii bont to fnrui&h myself with many things which I'
foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It wasin vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had; :u.<l this extremity roused my application.
"We had several spun- yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the
ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for
their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they
might not drive away. When this was done I went
'down the ship's side, and pulling them to me I tied
four of them fast together at both ends as well asF
soold,inthe form of a raft, and laying twt or three
short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I.
eould walk upon it very well, but dtat it was notable
to best any great weight, the pieces being too lights
v01..I.. C2
so I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them
to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains ; but
the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries en-
couraged me to go hej ond what I should have beta
able to have done upon another occisoin.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight; my next cari; wns what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from thesurf
of the sea; but I was not long considering this, I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I
first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, aud lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I fil led with provi-
sions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five piec-
es of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon,
and a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we had brought to
sea with us,but the fowls were killed. There had been
some barley and wheat together, but, to my great dis-
appointment, I found afterwards that the rats had ea-
ten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, aud in all about five or six
gallons of rack: these I stowed by themselves, there
being no need to put them into the chest, nor no room
for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide
began to flow, though very calm, and I had the mor-
tification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I
had left oa shore upon the sand, swim away; as for
my breeches, which were only Imen, and opeu-
kueed'd, I swam on board in them and my stockings:
however, this put me upon rummaging fur clothes, of
which I found enough, but took no more than I want-
ed for present use, for I had other things which my
eye was mote upon; as, first, tools to work with on
shore; and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much mote valuable than a
ship-leading of gold would have been at that time: I
jot it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without
losinii time to look into it, for 1 knew in general what
it contianed.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols: these I secured first, with
some powder horns, and a small bag of shot, and
two old rusty swords. I knew there were three bar-
rels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our
gunner bad stowed them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third hsd
taken water, those two I got to my raft, with the
arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freight-
ed, and begtm to think how I should get to shore
with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder, and
the least capful of wind would have overset all lar
navigation.
I had three encouragements; 1. A smooth, calm
sea; !. The tide rising and setting in to the shore; 3.
"What little wind there was blew me towards the
)and: and tbus, having found two or three broken
fiars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a
hammer; and with this cargo I put to sea: for a
mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only
that I found it drive a httle distant from the place
wherc I had landed before, by which I perceived that
there was some indraft of the water, and consequent-
ly I hoped to find some sreefc or river there, wlm•b
] might make use of as a Ixnt to get to lund with my
c:irgo.
As I imagined, so it was: there nnpearrd before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
~
wreck, which, if'I had. I think verily would have
liroke my heart; far•knowing nolh'mjrof the coast, my
raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, anil
*iot bfin^ aground Rt tlf other end, it wanted tint a
liUU' UtU a" HI; cargo kad ilii'pcd utf tewarrit tl.m
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water, t
did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests,
to keep them in their places, but could not thrust off
the raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir
from the posture I was in, but holding up the chests
with all my might, stood in that manner near half an
hour, in which time the rising of the water brought
me a little more upon a level ; and a little after, the
water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel; and then
driving up higher, I at length found myself in the
month of a little river, with land on both sides, and a
strong current of tide running up. I looked on both
sides for a proper place to get to shore; for I was not
willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in
time to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved
to place myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly
in ; but here I had liked to have dipped all my carg*
.in the sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep,
lhat is to say sloping, there was no place to land, but
where one end of my float, if it run en shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that it
would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do,
»as to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping
the raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side
of it fast to the shore, near a fiat pieee of ground,
which I expected the water would flow over; and so
it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored
her by sticking my two broken oars into the ground 5
one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end: and tbus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my rail and all my cargo safe
-«n shore.
My nest work was to view the country, and seek a
.proper place for my habitation, and where to slow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might hap-
-pen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or on an island, whether inhabited or not
inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from
it northward : I took out one of the fowling pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and
thos armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill, where, after I had with great labour and
difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great
affliction, viz. that I was in an island environed every
way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some
rocks whieh lay a great way off, and two small islands
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, ex-
cept by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none;
et I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their
inds; neither when 1 killed them could I tell what
was fit for food, and what not At my coming back
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree
on the side of a great wood — I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the
world. 1 bad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls
of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and cry-
ing, every one according to his usual note ; but not
one of them of any kind that 1 knew. As for the
ereature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or
claws more than common; its flesh was carrion, and
fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to brine my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of that day; and what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest: for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing bat some wild beast might devour we.;
y
k
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of a hnt for that night's
lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures like hares run out of the wood where I shot
the fowl.
1 now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which wonld be
useful tome, nnrt particularly some of the riggingand
sails, and such other things as might come to land,
snd I resolved to make another voyage on board the
vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the first storm
that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, f
resolved to set all other things apart, till I got every
thing out of the ship that I eotdd get. Then I exiled
a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I
should take hack the raft; but this appeared imprac-
ticable: so I resolved to go as before, when the tide
was down, and I did so, only that I stripped before I
went from my but, having nothing on but a checked
kii.'rt and a pair of linen trowsers, and a pair of pumps
son my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor load si! it so hard,
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me; as first, in the carpenter's stores I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, agreut screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
together with several things belongingto the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows. and two ban-els
of musket-bullets, seven tnnskets, and another fowl-
lng-pi»ce, with some small quantity of powder mon-;
n large bag fnll of small shot, and a great roll of shest
Ii'ad; but this last was so heavy I could not hoist it
*p to get it over the ship's side.
JBeajAM tfaeae Ihings, I took all the men'* cletiie*
'that "I could find, and a spare forctopsail, hammock,
-and some bedding; and w iih this I loaded my second
raft. and brought them all s:.lc on shore to my very
great comfort.
I was under same apprehensions during ray absence
frnm the laud, that at least my provisions might be
iIcvourrd OD ebore; but ween I came back, I found
no sign of any visitor, only there tat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
still; shr sat very composed and uueoneeroed, and
looked full in my face, as if she bad a mind to be ao-
quainted with me; 1 presented my goo at her,butas
she did not understand it, she wa> perfectly uncon-
cerned s t it, niir did the offer to stir away; upon
which 1 towed her a tit of biscuit, though by the way
I was not very free of it, for my store was not great:
however, I spared her a bit, I say, and ehe went to
it. sme'iled of it, and ate it, and looked, as pleased, for
more; but I thanked Ui:r, and could span: i.>> more;
so she ma. uhea off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though 1
was fain to open I'M; barrels of powder and bring
them by parcek, F . they were too heavy, being large
casks, I weut *. *uik to make me a little tent with
the sail and some polrs which I cut for that purpose;
and into this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled all
the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either
from inuB or beast.
When 1 had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up an end without, and spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my
head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for
the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I
was very weary and heavy, as the mgh* before I had
slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as
well to fetch all those things from the ship as to get
them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds HOW that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still; for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could: so every day at low water I went
en board, and brought away something or other! but
particularly the third time I went, I brought away as
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece ofspare
canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder: in a word I brought
tway all the sails first and last, only that I was fein
to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as
1 could; for they were no more useful to be sails,
fcut as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me still, more was, that
last ofall, after I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and though I had nothing more to expect
from the ship that was wortli my meddling with; I
say, alter all this, 1 found a great hogshead of bread,
and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flower; this was surpris-
ing to me, because I had given over expecting any
more provisions, except what was spoiled by the wa-
ter: I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and
wrappeoVit up, parcel by parcel, in pieces«f the sails,
which I cut out; and in a word, I got all this safe on
shore also.
The next day I made another voyage: and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, \
got two cibles and a hawsvr on shore, wilh all the
iron work I could get; aod having cut down the sprit-
sail yard, and the mizcu yard, and every thing I could
to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy
goods, and came away: but my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy and so
overladen, ihat after I had entered the ltttle core
wher? Thail landed the rest of my gands, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it over-
•ct, aud threw me and all my cargo into the water.
As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near
theshore; but as to my cargo, it was a great part of it
lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have
been of great'ise to me: however, when the tide
was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and
some of the iron, though with infinite labour; for I
was fain to ilip for it into the wnteri a wovk which fa-
tigued me very much. After this. I went every day
on board, and brought away whKtl could get
I had been now thirteen days uii shore, and had
teen eleven times on hoard the ship; in which time
1 had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be su]niosed capable to bring, though I believe
verily, had the calm weather held I should have
brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but
preparing the twelfth time to go on Iward, I found
the wind began to rise; however, at low water I went
on board, and though 1 thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing more could be
found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in
one of which I found two or three razors, and one
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thir-
ty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and
some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O
drug!" said I, aloud," what art thou good for? thou
ait not worth to me, no not the taking off of the
ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap ; I
have no manner of use for thee; even remain where
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose
life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvass, I began to think of making another
raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the sky
overcast, and the wind began to rise aad in a quarter
of an hour ic blew a fresh gale from the shore. It
presently occurred to me, that it was in rain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was mv business to begone before the tide of flood
.
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the'
shore at all; accordingly I let myself down into the
water, and swam across the channel which lay be-
tween the ship ami the sands, and even that with dif-
ficulty enough, partly with the weight of things I had
about me, and partly the roughness of the water, fop
the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
verv hard all that night, and in the morning when I
looked out, behold r.o more ship was to be seen. 1
was a little surprised but recovered, myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, nor
abated no diligence to get every thing out of her that
could be useful to me, and that indeed there was lit-
tle left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had
had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, oi
'
of any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but those things were of small use
to me.
My thoughts were now wholly emploved about se--
cnring myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make; whether 1 shouhi
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth:
and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and.
description of which it may not be improper to give
an account of.
1 soon found the place I was in was not for my set-
tlement, particularly because it was upou a low moor-
ish ground near the sea, and I believed would not be
wholesome, and more particularly because there was
«o fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I
found would be proper fur me; 1st, Health, and fresh
w«er, I just no» menlioneti, SJn<Hy, Shelter frem
the heat of the sun. Sdlv, Security from ravenous
ereatures, whether man or beast. 4thly, a view to
the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not
lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
not willing to bunish all my expectation yet.
ID search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that no-
thing could come down upon me from the top: on
the side of this rock there was a hollow place worn a
little way in like the entrance or door of a cave, but
there was not really any cave, or \vay into the rock.
st all. .
On the flatofthe green, jost before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not
above an bundred yards broad, and about twice tw
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end of it descended irregularly every way down into
the low ground by the sea-side.. It was on the
N. V. W. side of the hill, so that it was sheltered
from the heat every day, till it came to a VV. and by
S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries i*
sear setting
Before I set up my tent, I drew a balf cirele before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
•emi-diameter-from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.
(a this half circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into-the ground till they stood
Yery firm, like piles, the bigest end being out of the
ground about five feet aod a half, and sharpened on
the top; the two rows did not stand above six inches
from HIM- another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows one above another,
within the cirele between these two rows of stakes,
np to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, lean-
ing against them, about two foot and a half high, like
a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong, that
•either man or beast could get into it or over it;
&0 cost, me a great deal of $uie and labour, esgeelal!-
)y to cut the piles in the woods, bring them t« tie.
place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to he not by a
door. but by a short ladder, to go over the top: which
ladder, when I was in, I liltol over after me: and so
I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept Si cure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done,
though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that 1 apprehen-
ded danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried ull my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above; and
J made me a large tent, which, to preserve me from
the mins, that in one part of the year are very vio-
lent there, I made double, viz. one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the
uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved
among the sails.
And now 1 lay no more for a while in the bed
which I had brought on shore but in a hammock,
whicli was indeed a very good one, and belonged to
the mate of the ship.
Into this tent 1 brought all my provisions, and eve-
ry thing that would spoil by the wet; and having
tbus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance,
which till now I had left opon, and so passed rjid re-
passed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way in-
to the rock, and bringing all Uie earth and stones that
1 dug down, oat through my tent, 1 laid them up
within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that so
it raised the ground within about a foot and a half,
and tbus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection, and there-
fore I must go back to some other things which took
up some of my thoughts. At the same time it hap-
pened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting op
ray tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of
lightning happened, and after that a great clap of
tbunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so
much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the
lightaing itself: O, my powder! my very heart sunk
within me, when I thought, that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed: on which, not my de-
fence only, but the providing me of food, as I thought,
entirely depended: I was nothing near so anxious
about my own danger; though, had the powder took
fire, I had never known who had hort me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that, af-
ter the storm was over, I laid as.ide all my works, my
building, and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes to seperate the powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope, that, what-
ever might come, it might not all take fire at once,
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible
to make one part fire another. I finished this work
in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which
in alt was about two bundred and forty pounds weight,
was divided in not less than a bundred parcels. As
to the barrel that had been wet, I did not appre-
hend any danger from that, sn I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen; and
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks,
so that no wet might come to it, marking very care-
fully where I laid it.
In the interval ot time while this was doing, I went
Out once at least every dav with my gun, as well to
divert myself, a- to St-e it'l could kill any thing fit for
food, Snd as near as I rould to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time t went out
I presently discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtile, and so swift of foot, that
it was the most difficult thing in the world to come
it then. Ball was not discouraged at tkls, not doabt-
Ing but I might now and then shoot one, as it StXJB
happened; for after 1 had found theirhaunlsa little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed, if
they saw me in the vallies, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright 3
but if they were feeding in the vallies, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
whence I concluded, that by the position of their
opties,their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above them;
»o afierwurd I took this method; I always climbed
the rocks first to get above them, and then had fre-
quently a fair mark. The firsi shot I made among
these creature! I killed a shi'-goat, which had a little
lid by her which she gave suck to, which griev".
ed me heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid
stood stock still by her till I came and took her up;
and not only so; but wheis I carried the old one with
me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite te
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and
took the kid in my arms, and carried it over m) pale,
in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it would not
eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for
1 ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abso-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in
auid fuel to burn; and what I did for thnt, aa also
how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its place; bat
I must first give some little account of myself. and of
my thoughts about living, which it may well be sup-
posed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I
was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz.
some bundred of leagues out of the ordinary course
sof the tra'le of mankind, I bad great reason to t.-^isid-
«r it aa a determiuation of iJearen, that in tliis de-
socate place, and in this desolate manner, I should
end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and some-
simes I would expostulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should tbus completely ruin his creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable; so abandoned
without help, so entirely .depressed, that it could hard-
ly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always turned swift upon me t«
check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and parti-
cularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand by
the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the subject of
lay present condition, when reason, as it were, ex-
postulated with me t'other way, tbus: "Well, you
are in a desolate condition, 'tis true, but pray remem-
ber, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten?
Why were they not saved and you hist? Why were
you singled out? I« it belter to be here or there?"
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in them, and with
what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
•ished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was a bun-
dred thousand to one, that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near
the shore that I had time to get all these things out of
her. What would have been my case, it'I had been
to have lived in the condition in which I it first came
en shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to
supply and procure them? "particularly," said I,
aloud (though to myself,) " what should I have done
without. a gun, without ammunition, without any tools
to make any thing, or to work with-; without clothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?" and
that uon I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and
was in a fair way to provide myself in s'ieh a man-
ner, as to live without my gun when my ammunition.
was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsist-
ing, without any want, as long as! lived: for I aau-
sidered from the beginning how I should provide for
the accidents that might happen, and for the time
that was to aome, even not only after my ammuni-
tion should be spent, but even after my health or
strength should decay.
1 confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my
powder being blown np by lightning; and this made
the thought of it so surprising to me v,heu it light*
oned and tbundered, as I observed just now.
A nd now, being about to enter into a melancholy
relation of a seene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in
the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this
horrid island, when the sun being, to us, in itsautum-
nal equinox, was nhnast just over my head, for I
reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude
of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve ilays,
it came into my thoughts, that 1 should lose my reck-
oning of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and
should even forget the sablnth days from the working
days; but to prevent this, I cut.it with my knife upon
a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first land-
ed, viz. "I came on shore here on the SOih of Sep-
tember 1659." Upon the sides of this square post, I
cut every day A notch with my knife, and every se-
venth notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and tbus 1 kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckouing of time.'
In the next place we are to observe, that among
the many things which 1 brougkt out of the ship in
the several voyages, which as above mentioned, I
Tnade to it, I got several tilings of less value, but not at
all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down be-
fore; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several
tiarcels hi the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpen-
ters keeping, three or four compasses, some mathe-
inatical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and
books of navigation; all which I buddled together,
whether I might want them or no. Also 1 found
three very good Bibles, which came to me in my car-
go from England, and which I had packed up among
my things; some Portuguese books also, and among
them two or three popish prayer-books, and several
other books: all which I carefully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occa-
sion to say something in its place: for I carried both
the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out
of the ship of himself, and swam on shore tome the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and
was a trusty servant to me many years ; I wanted noth-
ing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pen, ink and paper, and I busbanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show, that while my
ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that
was gone I could not, for I could not make any ink
by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe,
and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ; needles, pins,
and thread. As for linen, I soon learnt to want that
without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habita-
tion; the piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre-
paring in the woodsy and more by far in bringing
home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one ofohose posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground; for which purpdse I
got a heavy piere of wood at first, but at last betho't
myself of one of the iron crows, which however,
vol. i. D
though I found it, yet it made driving those posts ov
piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tedi-
eusness of any thing I had to do, seeing 1 had time
enough to do it in? Nor had 1 any other employment
if that had been over, at least that 1 could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I
did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to
'leave them to any that were to come after me, for I
was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver iuy
thoughts from daily pouring upon them, and afflicting
;ny mind; and as my reason began now to master my
despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I
could, and to set the good against the evil, that 1 might
have something to distinguish my case from worse;
and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and cred-
itor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries t
suffered, thos:
EYIL. GooD
I am cast upon a horri- But I am alive, and
tie desolate island, void not drowned, as all mj
«f all hope of recovery. ship's company was.
I am singled out and lint I am singled out
separated, as it were, too from all the ship's
from all the world, to be crew to be spared from
xuiserable- death; and He that mira-
culously saved me from
death, can deliver me
from this condition.
I am divided from But I am not starved
Mankind, a solitaire, one and perishing on a bar-
lanished from homan so- rert place, affording no
ciety. sustenance.
I have not clothes to» But I am in a hot cli-
*aver me. mate, where, if I had
clothes, I 'could hardly
wear tln'ia.
Evtl. GooD.
Tarn without any de- But I sm cast on an
fence or means to resist island where 1 see no
>ny violence of man or •wild beasts to burt me,
ieast.
I have no soul to speak
to, or relieve me.
as I saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I
had been shipwrecked
there?
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so many
necessary things as will
either supply my wants,
or enable me to supply
myself, even as long a& t
live.
tTpnnthe whole,here was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or some-
thing/Jowfife, to be thankful for in it; and let this
itand as a direction from the experience of the most
miserable of a11 conditions in this world, that we may
ilways find in it something to comfort ourselves from,
md to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
tredit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish ray
londition, and given over looking out to sea, to see
f I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things,
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of
ivtng, and to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
trong pale of posts and cables; but I might now ra-
hurcallit a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up a-
ainst it of turfs, about two feet thick, ou the outside;
iid after some time, I think it was a year and a half,
raised rafters from it, leasing to the rock, and
iatuhed or covered it with boughs of trees, and such,
iings as 1 could get to keep.outthe rain, which I found
t some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made
behind me: but I must observe, too, that at first this
was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no
order, so they took up all my place: I had no room
to turn myself; sol set mj self to enlarge my cave,
and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I be-
stowed upon it; and so when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the
right hand into the rock; and then, turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to
come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were, a back way to my tent and to my storehouse,
but gave me room to store my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
ttecessary things as \ found I most wanted, particu-
larly u chair and table; for without these I was not
able to enjoy the few comforts 1 had in the world; I
could not write or eat, or do several things with so
much pleasure without a table.
Sol went to work ; and here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and original of the ma-
thematies, so hy stating and squaring every thing by
reason, and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be in time master of every
mechanic art I had never handled a tool in my life,
and yet in time, by labour, application and contriv-
ance, I found at last that 1 wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if I had but tools; however,
I made abundance of things, even without tools, and
some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infinite labour: for example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set
it on an edge before me, and hew it. flat on either side
with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dubjit smooth with my adze. It it
true, by this method I could make but one board out
of* whole tree; but this I had Do remedy for but
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious
deal of time and labour which it took me up to make
a plank or board: but my time or labour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way :is
another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
•erved above, in the first place; and this I did out of
the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft
from the ship: but when I had wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth
ofa foot and a half one over another, all along one
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and in a word, to separate every thing at large
in their places, that I might come easily at them. 1
knocked pieces in the wall of the rock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a
great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such or-
der, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries
s0 great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of
every days employment; for indeed at first I warf in
too much a burry ; but not only burry as to labour,
but in too much discomposure of mind, and my
journal would have been full of many dull things.
i'or example, I must have said tbus: Sept. the 30th,
after I got to shore, and had escaped drowning, in.
Itead of being thankful to God for my deliverance,
having first vomited with the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recov.
ering myself a litile, I ran about the shore, wringing
my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out, I was undone, undone;
till tired and faint, 1 was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of be-
ing devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board
the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I
oould uot forbear getting up to the top of a little
mountain, and looking out to sea in hopes of seeing *
ship; then fancy that, at a rast distance I spied a sail;
please mystlf with the hopes of it; and then after
looking tteadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and tbus increase
my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household stuff and habi-
tation, made me a table and * chair, and all as hand-
some about me as I could, I began to keep my jour-
nal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though
in it will be told all these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, I was
form! to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30,1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm
in the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortu-
nate island, which I called the ISUTID OF DESFAIB;
all the rest of the ship's company being drowned,
and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself
it the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I
had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to
fly to, and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but
death before me, either that I should be devoured by
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death
for want of food. At the approach of night I slept
in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept sound-
ly, though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and
was driven on shore again much nearer the island;
which, as it was some comfort on one hand, for see-
ing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped,
Vfee wind abated, I might get on Loan!, and get some
food and necessaries out of her for my relief; so on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the losa of my
comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all staid on
board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
swould not have heen all drowned, as they were; and
that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent
a great part of this day, in perplexing myself on these
things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then
swam on board. This day also it continued raining,
though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all
I could out of the ship, which I brought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also m
these days, though with some intervals of fair weath-
er: but, it seems, this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods T had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
pists of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces, the wind blow ing a little harder than before,
•nd was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cov-
ering and scouring the goods which I had saved, that
the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day,
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I
fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked
out a semicircle for mv encampment, which I resolv-
ed to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification
made of doable piles, lined within with cables, and
withont with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
earning all my goods to my new habitation, t
komV purl sf thVttme. it rained exceeding hard;
The Slst, in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the
country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid fol-
lowed me home, which I afterwards killed also, be-
cause it would not feed.
November I. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.
JVov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I
had marked out for my fortification.
Atm. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a table.
JVoT. 4. This morning 1 began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion, viz: every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain,
then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock, then ate what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot, and then in the evening to work again:
the working part of this day and of the next, were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet
but a very Sony workman, though time and necessity
made me" a iComplete natural mechanic soon after, u
I believe they would do any one else.
JV~o». 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft,,
but her flesh good for nothing: of every creature I
killed, I took offthe skins and preserved them. Com-
ing back bj the sea shore I saw many sorts of sea-
fowls which I did not understand; but was surprised
and almost frightened with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing at, not well knowing what they
were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.
A*oi'. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to my
liking' nor was it long before I learnt to mend it
»V0Ti. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weathetv
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday), I took wholly up to make me *
chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please me; and even in the ma-
kins I pulled it in pieces several times.
NOTE. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for
emitting my maik for them on my post, 1 forgot
which wan which.
JYov. IS. This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accom-
panied with terrible tbunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it-
might not be in danger.
AVo. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in ma-
king little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds, at most, of powder;-
and so putting the powder uir 1 stowed it in places as
secure and remote from one another as possible. On
one of these three days 1 killed a large bird that wSs
good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.
JVor. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveni-
ence.
NOTE. Three things I wanted exceedingly for
this work, viz. a pickaxe. a shovel, and a wheel-bar-
row or basket.; so I desisted from my work, and be-
gan to consider how to supply these wants, and make
roe some toolsr -as fora pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy ; but the- next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary, that indeed T could
do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make 1 knew not.
JVoVi 18. The next day in searching the woods I
ton.'iI a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the
Brazils they call the iron tree. from its exoeedinghard-
ness: of this, with great labour and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home too with
cultv enough,.for it waa exceeding heavy.
voLt. U2
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having
~!uo other way, made me a long while upon this raa-
^chine; for.I worked it effectually by Jitde and little
into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly
ss shaped hke ours in England, only that the broad part
having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not
Siast me longj: however, it served well enough for
ithe uses which I had occasion to pat it to; but never
was a shovel, 1 believe, made after this fushion, or
.iso long a making.
- *I was still deficient, for 1 wanted a bosket or a
-swheel-barrow; a basket I could r.ot make by any
means, having no such tilings as twigs that would
bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
out; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make
all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither
did I know ho\v to go about it; besides, I had no pos-
sible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle
or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and
-so for carrying away the earth whicM dug out of the
s cave, I made me a thing like a hod which the la-
bourers carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-
layers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the
-shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
vhich'I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took
sme up no less than four days, I mean always except-
ing my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
^failed; and very seldom failed also bringing home
-Something to ert.
Won. 23. My other work having now stood still,
"because of my making these tools, when they were
sfinished.I went on, and working every day as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days en-
tirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
•light hold my goods com tnodiously.
NOTE. During all this time, I worked to make
this room or cave capacious enough to accommodate
*ne as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining
room, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I kept to the
test, except that sometimes in the wet season of the
Tear, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself
dry, which caused rae afterwards to cover all my
pbce within my pale with long poles in tin- form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them will
Hugs and large leaves of trees like a thatch.
Dec. 10. I began now to think my cave or rault
finished, when on a sudden (it stems I had made it
too large) a givat quantity of earth fell down from.
the top and one side, so much that in short it fright-
ened me, and uot without reason too; for if I had
been under it, I had never wanted a gravedigger.
Upon this disaster 1 had a great deal of work to do ss
over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out,
and, which was of more importance, 1 had the ceil-
ipg to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would
come down.
Dec. II. This dny ( went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright Ur-
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each
post; this I fmished the next day: and setting more
posts up with Iiuards, in about a week more I. had the
root secure; and the posts, standing in rows, served*
me for partitions to part o.'i" my house.
/;.-s.s. 17. From tlusday to the twentieth, I placed:
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang.:
every tiling up that could be bungup: audnow I be-
gan to be in some order within doors.
JJec. -20. Now I can it - d every thinginto the cave,,
und bv:g!ui to r'lrnish iny house, and set up some pie-
ces of boards like a dresser, to order my victuals up-
on; but Uwitis began to be very scarce with me: al-
60 I muih- me another ublr.
Dei:. 'i4. Much rain all uight and all day ; uo stit-
ring out.
JJec. 25. Uainnllday.
Dec. M. No rain, and the earth much colder tham
before, and plensautor.
J;ec. -2'. Killed a young goat, and lamed another,...
so that 1 caught it, and led iL humu in » blring i wheii
I hud it home, 1 Louiid and (;dinU't'cd up iu leg,
JV. -B. I took such care of it that it lived, and the
jig grew well and as strong as ever; but by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green
at my door, and would not go away. This was the
'first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up
some tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, SO, 31. Great heats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening, for food. This time 1 spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hotitill,butl went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the vallies,
which lay towards the centre of the island, 1 found
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and
hard to come at; however, 1 resolved to try if I
could not bring my dog to bunt them down.
Jan. 9. Accordingly, the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, bemg
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I re-
solved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I purpose-
ly omit what was said, in the Journal; it is sufficient
to observe, that I was no less time than from the 3d
of January to the 14th of April, working, finishing,
and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than
about twenty-four yards in length, being a half-circle
from one place in the rock to another place about
eight yards from it, the door of the cave being in the
centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together;
but I thought I should never be perfectly secure until
this wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what
inexpressible labour every thing was done with, espe-
cially the bringing piles out of the woods, and tIriviuj
them into the ground, for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside dou-
ble fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it. I
persuaded myself that if any people were to come on
shore there, they would not perceive any thing like
a habitation: and it was very well I did so, as may be
observed hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time 1 made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in tTwse walks of something
or other to my advantage : particularly I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who built not 88 wood pigeons in a
tree, but rathar as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks; and takingtome young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame,and did so; but when they grew
olden they flew away, which perhaps at first was for
want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their ntsts, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
•t first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as
to some ofthem it was; for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped ; 1 had a small runlet or
two, as I observed before, but I could never arrive to
the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it; I could neither put in the
Jieads, or joint the staves so true to one another as to
make them hoM water: so I gave that over also.
in the next place, I was at a great loss for candles,
90 that xs soon as ever it was dark, which was ge ie-
rally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed: I
remembered the lump of bees-wax with which I
made candles in my African adventure, but I had
none of that now; the only remedy I had, was, that
when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with
a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun,
to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear
steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that, rummaging my things, I
found a little bag, which, as 1 hinted before, bad been -
fillud with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this-
voyagt-, but before, as I suppose, when the ship came
from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn bad been
in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and 1 saw
nothing in the bag but hosks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it
was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the lightning, or some such use, I shook the busks of
corn out of it on one side of my for l hi cation under
the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, thai I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown any thing there; when about a month
after or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting out of the ground, which I fan-
cied might be some plant 1 had not seen; but I was
surprised ani! perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time I saw about ten- or twelve ears eome out,
which were perfect green barley of the same kind as
our European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion-, I had!
hitherto acted upon ng religions foundation at all;
indeed I had very few notions of religion m nn head,
or had entertained any sense of any thing that bad
befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as wr.
lightly any, what pleases tiod; without so much aa.
inquiring into the end of Providence in these things*
or his order in governing events in the world; but'
after 1 saw barley grow there, .in- a climate which I-
knew was not proper for corn, and especially as I
knew nut Kow it came there, it stui'tled mestroitftly,
and I began to suggest, that God had miraculouslv
caused this grain to grow ifiihout anv help of seed
sown, and that it was so directed purely for my sus-
tenance on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, tmd brought tear*
'fuyty w*U 1 JjtgttU U
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my ac-
count; and tins was the more strange to me, because
I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock,
some other straggling stalks, which proved to ba
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because 1 had seen
it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
1 not only thought these the p'ire productions of
Providence for my support, but not doubting but that
there was more in the place, I went over all that part
of the island, where I had been before, searching in
svery corner and under every rock to see for more of
it, but I could not find any; at last it occurred to my
thoughts, lh;;t I had shook a bag of chicken's meat
'out in that place, and then the wonder began to cease;
and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence began to abate too upon discovering
that all this was nothing but what was common;
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange
and unforeseen a Providence, as if it had been mirac-
ulous: for it was renlly the work of Providence as to
me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve
grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the rats had
destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from
heaven ; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
highrock,it sprang up immediately; whereas if I
had throw nit any where else at that time, it would
have burnt up and destroyed.
1 carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June, and
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in-time to have some quantity sufficient tosup-
ply me with bread; but it was not till the fourth
year that I enuld allow myself the least grain ,'( this
corn to eat, and even then but sparii.gly,as I shall say
afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the
first season, by not observing the proper time; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never
came up at all, at least not as it would have done: of
which in ita place.
Betides this barley there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks office, which I preserved with the same
eare, anO whose use was of the same kind or to the
same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather
food ( for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I di'l that also after some time. But to re-
turn to my journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four
months to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I
closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door but
over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no
sign ou the outside of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside: this was a corap!eta-
enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I
hud almost bud all my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed; the case was tbus; As I was busy in
the inside of it, behind my lent, just at the entrance
into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed : for all on a sudden
I found the earth come crumbling down from the
roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over
my head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave
cracked in a frightful manner; 1 was heartily scared,
but thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in,
as some of it had done before; and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not
thinking myself safe Uiere neither, I got over my wall
for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected
might roll down upon me. 1 had no sooner slept
down upon the ftrm ground, but I plainly saw it was
a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook
three times at about eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which/
stood about half a mile from me ue.tt the sea, fell.
*
slown n-ith such a terrible noise as I never heard in
all my life ; 1 perceived also that the very sea was put
in violent motion by it: and 1 believe the shocks
were stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that
I was like one dead or stupified; anil the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stu-
pified condition I was in, fijled, nie with horror, and I
thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my
tent and all my household goods, and burying all at
once; and this sunk my very soul •within me a second
time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to lake courage, and yet I had
not heart enough to get over my v?all again, for fear
of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. All this while T had not the; least serious reli-
gious thought, nothing but the convmon " Lord, have
mercy upon me,!" and when it was over, that went
away too.
While I sat tbus, I found the air overcast, ano1 grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that the wind•
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an
hour it blew a most dreadful burricane! the sea was
all on a sudden covered over withe foam and froth,
the shore was covered with the breach of the watyr,
the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible
storm it wns: this hold about three hours, and then
began to abate, and in two hours more it M'as stark
calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, Tery much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came into
my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con-
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture into mv cave
again: with this thought my spirits began to revive,
and the rain aUo helping to persuade me, 1 went ia
4
and sat down m my tent; but the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and I was forced to go into ray cave, though very-
much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my
head.
This violent rain forced me into a new work, viz.
to cut a hole through my new fortification like a sink,
to let the watergo out, which would else have drown-
ed my cave. After I had been in my cave some
time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
follow, I began to be more composed; and now, to.
support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of
rum, which, however, I did then and always very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what
I had best do, concluding that if the island was sub-
ject to these earthquakes. there would be no living for
me in a cave, but I must consider of Imidling me
some little but in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall as 1 had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men: but conclu-
ded, if I staid where 1 was, I should certainly, one
time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 19th
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to
remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, affected me
so that I never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehen-
sion of lying abroad without any fence, was almost
eqnal to it; but still, when 1 looked about and saw
how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly;
concealed I was, and how safe from danger. it madii
in« very loth to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I ranst be contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it. So with this resolution I
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to build me a wall
nith piles and cables, ceo. in a circle as before: and
set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I
would venture to stay where I was till it was finish-
ed and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider
of means to put this resolve in execution, but I was at
> great loss about my tools. I had three large axes
and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatch-
ets for traffic with the Indians:) but with much chop-
ping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full
of notches and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I
could not turn it and grind my tools too: this cost me
as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a grand point of polities, or a judge upon the
life and death of a man. At length I contrived a
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I
night have both my hands at liberty. AVe, I had
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not
to take notice bow it was done, though since I have
observed it was very common there; besides that ray
grindstone was very targe and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in,
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
Jipril 30. Having perceived my bread had been
Iowa great while, I now took a survey of it, and re-
duced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.
'Afny 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea»
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary; and looked like a cask;
when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or
ttree pieees of the wreak of the ship, which were
driven on shore by the lute burricane; and looking
towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I exandn-
ed the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone;
however, I rolled it farther on shore for the present,
and went on upon the sand :.s near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, 1 found it strangely
removed; the forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six foot; and the stern,
which was broke to pieces, and parted from the rest
toy the force of the sea, soon after I had left rumma-
ging her, was tossed, as it were up, and cast on one
side, and the sand was thrown so high on that side
next her stern, that 1 could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out; whereas there was a great
piece of water before, so that I could not come with-
in a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimmmg.
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must be done by the earthquake; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken open than former-
ly so, many thing's came daily on shore which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from (he design
of removing my habitation; and I busied niysejf
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether I
could make any way into the ship; but I found noth-
ing was to he expected of that kind, for that all the
inside of the ship was choked up with sand: however,
as I learnt not to despair of any tiling, I resolved to
pull every thing to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding, that every thing I could get from her
would be of some use or other to me.
Atay 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of
a beam through, which I thought held some of the up-
per part or quarter-deck together, and when I had
out it through I cleared away the sand ns well as I
could from the side which lay highest; but the tide
coming in, I was Obliged to give over for tlmt time.
4, I went a fishing, but caught not one fnh
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my aport;
when just going to leave off, I caught ayoung dolphin.
I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I
had no hooks, yet 1 frequently caught fish enough, as
much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun,
and ate them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from
the decks, which I tied together, and made swim on
shore when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work;
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
sand had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work, but found the weight of the wreck
had broke itself down, the beams being cut, that sev-
eral pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the in-
side of the hold lay so open, that I could see into it,
but almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water and sand; I wrenched open two
Ilanks, and brought them on shore also with the tide.
left the iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went? to the wreck, and with the crow-
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could
not break them up: I felt also a roll of English lead,
and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, tl, 12, 13, 14. Went"every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, and
boards, or plank, and two or three bundred weight
of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the
edge of one hatchet and driving it with the other;
but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.
Mai/ 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
f
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the
water; but I staid so long in the woods to get pigeons
for food, that the tide prevented my going to the
wreck that day.
JUaylT. I saw some pieces of the wreck blowi
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me,
but resolved to see what they were, and found it was
a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring
away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour 1 loosened some tilings
so much with the crow, that the first flowing tide
several cases floated out, and two of tin; seamen's
ehests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing
came to the land that day but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out, and by this time I had gotten timber,
and plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good
boat, it I had known how; and also I got at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hondred weight
of the sheet-lead.
June IS. Going down to the sea-side,I found >
large tortoise or turtle: this waa the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any de-
fect of the place, or scarcity; for had 1 happened to
be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hondreds of them every day, as 1 found afterwards;
but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle; I fouod
in her three-score eggs; and her flesh was to me at
that time the most savory and pleasant that ever 1
tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and
fowls, since 1 landed in this horrid place.
June IS. Rained all day, and stayed within, t
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly which I knew waa not usual in that
Utitude,
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weath-
er had been cold.
June 28. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help. Prayed to God for the first time since the
storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why;
my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better,but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An agne very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat
took my gun, but found myself very weak; however
I kilted a she goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it and ate. I would fain
liave stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay a
bed all day, and neither ate or drank. I was ready
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had no strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Pray-
ed to God again, but was light-headed; and when I
was not I was so ignorant, that 1 knew not what to say;
only I lay and cried, " Lord, look upon me !"Lord,
pity me, Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose 1.
did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not awake till far in
the night; when I waked, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty: however,
as 1 had no water in my whole habitation, 1 was for-
ced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. la
this second sleep I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earthquake: and that I saw a man descend
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and
light upon the ground; he wta all over as bright as a
Same, so that I could but just bear to look towarfls
him: his countenance was most inexpressibly dread-
ful, impossible for words to describe: when he step-
ped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth-
quake; and all the air looked, to my apprehension,
as if it hsd been filled with flashes of fire. He had
no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved for-
ward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in
his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard
a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the
terror of it: all that I can s:iy I understood was this;
"Seeing all these things have not brought thee to re-
pentance, now thou shall die; at which words I
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor-
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the im-
pression that remained upon my mind when I awaked,
and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas' no divine knowledge: what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father was then
worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation
with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last degree. I do not remember that
I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as
tended either to looking upward towards God, or in-
ward towards a reflection upon my own ways: but a
certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me;
and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking,
wicked creature among our common sailors, can be
supposed to be; not having the least sense, cither of
thefear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to him
in deliverances.
In the relating what is already passed of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall
add, that through all the variety of miseries that had
to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one
thought sf its being the hand of God, or that it was a
just punishment for my sin; either my rebellious be-
haviour against my father, or my present sins, which
were great, or even as a punishment for the general
course of my wicked life. When I was or, the des-
perate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I
never had so much as one thought of what would be-
come of me; or one wish to God to direct me whith-
er I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me as well from voracious
creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite thought-
less of a God or a Providence: acted like a mere
brute, from the principles of nature, and by the dic-
tates of common sense only; and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly
and honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the
least thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I
was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning,
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking
on it as a judgment: I only said to myself often, that
I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always mis-
erable.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of eestacy, and some transports
of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might
have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended
where it began, in a mere common flight of joy, or,
as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the leait
reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand,
which had preserved me, and had singled me out to
be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why Providence had been tbus merciful
to me: just the same common sort of joy which sea-
men generally have, after they are got safe ashorw
from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next
bowl of punch, and forget almost as aoon as it is over:
vol. I. E
all the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was
afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of
my condition,—how I was cast on this dreadful place,
out of the reach of homan kind, out of the hope of
relief, or prospect of redemption,-—as soon as I saw
but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve
and perish for honger, all the sense of my affliction
wore off, and I began to be very easy, applied myself
to the works proper for my preservation and supply,
and was far enough from being afflicted at my con-
dition as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of
God against me: these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my jour-
nal, had, at first, some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I
thought it had something miraculous in it; but as
soon as that part of the thought was removed, all the
impression which was raised from it wore off also, as
I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more
immediately directing to the invisible Power which
alone directs such things, yet, no sooner was the fright
over, but the impression it had made went off also.
I had no more sense of God, or his judgments, much
less of the present affliction of my circumstances be-
ing from his hand, than if I had been in the most
properous condition of life. But now, when I began
to be sick, and a leisure view of the miseries of death
came to place itself before me; when my spirits be-
gan to sink under the burden of a strong distemper,
and nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, began to
awake; and I reproached myself with my past life,
in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wicked-
ness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindic-
tive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for
the second or third day of my distemper; and in the
violence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my conscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God : though I cannot say it
was a prayer attended either with the desires or with
hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and dis-
tress. My thoughts were confused; the convictions
great upon my mind; and the horror of dying in such
a miserable condition raised vapours in my head with
the mere apprehension: and in these horries of my
soul, I knew not what my tongue might express: but
it was rather exclamation, such as, "Lord, what a
miserable creature am I! if I should be sick, I shall
certainly die for want of help; and what will become
of me?" Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I
could say no more for a good while- In this interval,
the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the
beginning of this story, viz. that if I did take this fool-
ish step, God would not bless me; and I should have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery. "Now," said I, aloud, "my dear father's
words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken
me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected
the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put
me in a station of life wherein I might have been
happy and easy; but I would neither see it myself,
nor learn from my parents to know the blessing of it.
I left them to mourn over my folly; and now I am
left to mourn under the consequences of it: I refused
their help and assistance who would have pushed me
in the world, and would have made every thing easy
to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle with
too great for even nature itself to support; and no as-
sistance, no comfort, no advice.'' Then I cried out,
"Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years. But I return to my Journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I
got up; and though the fright and terror of my dream
was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the
ague would return again the next day, and now was
my time to get something to refresh and support my-
self when I should be ill. The first thing I did was
to fill a large square case-bottle with water; and set
it upon my table, in reach of my bed: and to take off
the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put a-
bont a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then I got me a piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about; but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy hearted under a sense of
my miserable condition, dreading the return of my
distemper the next day. At night, I made my sup-
per of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in
the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this
was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's
blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk; but found myself
so weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I nev-
er went without that); solwent buta little way,and
sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
to me: What is this earth and sea, of which I have
seen so much? Whence is it produced? And what
am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, hu-
man and brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are
all made by some secret power, who formed the
earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is that?
Then it followed most naturally,—It is God that has
made all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if
God has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the
power that could make all things must certainly have
power to guide and direct them: if so, nothing can
happen, in the great circuit of his works, either with-
out his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, be
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful con-
dition: and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed all this to befall me. NotU-
>ng occurred to my thought to contradict any of these
conclusions: and therefore it rested apon me -with
the greatest force, that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he
having the sole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happens in the world. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me ? What have
I done to he thus used? My conscience presently
checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed;
and methonght it spoke to me like a roice," Wretch!
dost than ask what thou hast done? Look back npon
a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself, what thou
hast not done? Ask, why is It that thou wert not long
ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yar-
mouth roads; killed in the fight when the ship
was taken by the Sallee man of war; devoured by
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned
fare, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost
thou ask what thou hast done?" I was struck dumb
with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not
a word to say; no, not to answer to myself; and,
rising up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat,
and went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed:
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no
inclination to sleep; so I sat down in the chair and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as
the apprehension of the return of my distemper ter-
rified me very much, it occured to my thought, that
the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for
almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll
of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cur-
ed ; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt: for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned
before, and which to this time I had notfound leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took
it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me
to the table. What use to make of the tobacco I
knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it was
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way .or
other. I first took a piece of the leaf, and chewed it
in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost stupefi-
ed my brain; the tobacco being green and strong,
and such as I had not been much used to. Then I
took some and steeped it an hour or two in some
rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay
down: and, lastly, I burned some upon a pan of
coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as
long as I could bear it; as well for the heat as almost
for suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I
took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head
was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear read-
ing, at least at that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me
were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shall glorify me." These
words were very apt to my case; and made some im-
pression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as
for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my apprehension of things, that, as the children of
Israel said when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" sol
began to say, Can even God himself deliver me from
this place? And as it was not many years that any
hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my
thoughts: but, however, the words made a great im-
pression upon me, and I mused upon them very often.
It now grew late; and the tobacco had, as I said, do-
zed my head so much that I inclined to sleep: so I
left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want
any thing in the night, and went to bed. But before
I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my
life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I cal ed upon him in the day
of trouble, he would deliver me. After my broken,
and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in
which I'had steeped the tobacco; which was so strong
and rank of the tobacco that indeed I could scarce
get it down: immediately upon this I went to bed.
I found presently the rum flew up into my head vio-
lently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this
hour I am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next
day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I know not how I should lose a day out of
my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I had lost it by
crossing and recrossing the Line, I should have lost
more than one day; but certainly. I lost a day in my
account, and never knew which way. Be that, how-
ever, one way or the other, when I awaked, I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively
and cheerful: when I got up, I was stronger than I
was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hongry; and, in short, I had Do fit the next day, but
continued much altered for the better. This was
the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a seafowl or two, something like a brand
goose, and brought them home; but was not very
forward to eat them ; so I ate some more of the tur-
tle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I
renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me
good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum;
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I che,w
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke:
however, I was not so well the next day, which was
the 1st of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I
had a little of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways; and dosed myself with it as at first, and doub-
led the quantity which I drank.
J-uty 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks af-
ter. While I was tbus gathering strength, ray
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture," I will
deliver thee;" and the impossibility of my deliver-
ance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever ex-
pecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
Thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so
much upon my deliverance from Ihe main affliction
that I disregarded the deliverance I had received;
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques-
tions as these, viz. Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully too, from sickness; from the most dis-
tressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful
to me f and what notice have I taken of it? Have I
done my part? God has delivered me, but I have
not glorified him -r that is to say, I have not owned
and been thankful for that as a deliverance: and how
can I expect a greater deliverance? This touched
my heart very much; and immediately I knelt down,
and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it; and imposed upon myself to read awhile eve-
ry morning and every night; not binding myself to
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seri-
ously to this work, that I found my heart more deep-
ly and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my
past life. The impression of my dream revived ; and
the words, " _A11 these things have not brought thee
to repentance'," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was
earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentially, the very same day,
that reading the scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give re-
pentance, and to give remission." I threw down
the book; and with my heart as well as my hands
lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of joy, I cried
out aloud." Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!"
This was the first time in all my life I could say, in
the true sense of the words, that I prayed; for no»-
I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, founded on the encour-
agement of the word of God: and from this time, I
may say, I began to have hope that God would hear
me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, " Call on me, and I will deliverthee," in a dif-
ferent sense from what I had ever done before; for
then I had no notion of any thing being called deliver-
ance, but my being delivered from the captivity I
was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that
m the worst sense in the world. But now I learned
to take it in another sense : now I looked back upon
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared
so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all
my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing:
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or
think of it: it was all of no consideration in compari-
son with this. And I add this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a
true sense of things, they will find deliverance from
sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from
affliction. But, leaving this part, I return to my
Journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to
my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by con-
stantly reading the Scripture and praying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of com-
fort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; also,
as my health and strength returned, I bestirred me
to furnish myself with every thing that I wanted, and
make my way of living as regular as I could. ,
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chii'rfy
employed in walking about with my gun in my band,
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was gath-
ering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is
hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I
roL. i. E 2
made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what
had never cured an ague before: neither can I re-
commend it to any one to practice, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rath-
er contributed to weakening me; for I had frequent
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learned from it also this, in particular; that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious
thing to my health that could be, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
season was almost always accompanied with such
storms, so I found that this rain was much more dan-
gerous than the rain which fell in September and
October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possibility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believe that no homan shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having secured my habitation,
as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire
to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and
to see what otner productions I might find, which I
yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my
rafts on shore. I found, after I'came about two miles
up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it
was no more than a little brook of running water,
very fresh and good: but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it; at
least not any stream. On the banks of this brook I
found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain,
nooth, and covered with grass: and on the rising
uts of them, next to the higher grounds (where the
waW as it might be supposed never overflowed), I
found^a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to
a very great and strong stalk: and there were divers
other plants, which I had no knowledge of, or under-
•tanding about, and that might, perhaps have virtues
of their own, which I could not find out. I searched
for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that cli-
mate make their hread of, but I could find none. I
saw large plants of aloes,but did not understand thorn.
I saw several sugar canes, but wild; and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time; and came back, musing
with myself what course I might take to know the
virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover; but could bring it to no con-
clusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation
while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the field ; at least, very little that might
serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again i and after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the savan-
nabs begin to cease, and the country become mors
woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits; and particularly I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees: the vines indeed, had spread over the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were now just in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising
discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I
was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of
them; remembering that when I was ashore in Bar-
bary, the eating of grapes killed several of our Eng-
lishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them
into fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an excel-
lent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grape*
or raisins are kept; which I thought would be (ai
indeed they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to
eat, when no grapes were to he had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation i which by the way, was the first
night as I might say I had lain from home. At night,
I took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree,
where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded
on my discovery, traveling near four rojles,as I might
judge by the length of the valley; keeping still due
north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
sides of me. At the end of this march I came to an
opening, where the country seemed to descend to the
west; and a little spring of fresh water, which
issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other
way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
faesh, so green, so flourishing, every thing being in a
constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it looked
like a planted garden. I descended a little on the
side of that delicious vale, surveying it with a secret
kind of pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting
thoughts), to think that this was all my own; that I
was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and
had a right of possession; and, if 1 could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of
cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees, but
all wild, and very few bearing any fruit; at least not
then. However, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and car-
ry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was approaching. In or-
der to this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one
place, a lesser heap in another place; and a great
parcel of limes and melons in another place; and
taking a few of each with me, I traveled homeward;
and resolved to come again, and bring a hag or sack,
or what I could make to carry the rest home. Ac-
cordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave):
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice,
having broken and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but
I could bring only a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
thom, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and abun-
dance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there
were some wild creatures thereabouts which had
done this, but what they were I knew not. Howev-
er, as I found there was no laying them up in heaps,
and no carrying them away in a sack; but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way
they would be crushed with their own weight; 1 took
another course: I then gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hong them upon the out branches of
the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that val-
ley, and the pleasantness of the situation; the secu-
rity from storms on that side ; the water and the
wood: and concluded that I had pitched upon a place
to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst part
of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consid-
er of removing my habitation, and to look out for a
place equally safe as where I was now situate, if pos-
sible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ranjpng in my head; and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of
the place tempting me: but when I came to a near-
er view of it, I considered that I was now by the sea
side, where it was at least possible that something
might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill
fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the game place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate
my bondage, and to render such an affairnot'only im-
probable, but impossible; and that therefore I ought
not by any means toremove. However,I was so enam-
moored of this place, that I spent much of my time
there forthe whole remainingpartofthe month of July;
and though upon second thoughts I resolved, as above
stated, not to remove; yet I built me a little kind of
a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and filled between with brushwood.
Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
nights together; always going over it with a ladder as
before: so that I fancied now I had my country and
my seacoast house. This work took me up till the
beginning of August
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation: for though I
had made a tent like the other, with a piece of sail,
and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of
a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had fin-
ished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August, I found the grapes I had bung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent goood rai-
sins of the sun: so I began to take them down from
the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I
should have lost the best part of my winter food; for
I had above two bundred lafge bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain:
and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it
rained more or less every day till the middle of Oc-
tober; and sometimes so violently that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more of
her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with
three kittens. This was the more strange to me, be-
cause, about theendof August, though I had killed a
OF fcOfclNSON CRtJSOB. Ill
wild cat as 1 called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was
quite a different kind from our European cats: yet
Uio young cats were the same kind of house-breed as
the old one; and both of my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three, I af-
terwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I
u-aa forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain; so that I could not stir, and was now very care-
ful not to be much wet. In this confinement I began
to be straitened for food; but venturing out once or
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which
was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was
a treat to me. My food was now regulated tbus t I
ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of
the goat's flesh, or of the turtle broiled for my dinner
(for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil
or stew any thing); and two or three of the turtle'i
eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one side,
till I came to the outside of the hill; and made a door,
or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall:
and so I came in and out this way. But I was not
perfectly easy at lying so open: for as I had manag-
ed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; where-
as now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I conld not
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the
biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island
being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on
my post, and found I had been on shore three bun-
dred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious homilia-
tion, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; and having
not tasted the least refreshment for twelre hoars,
even tiU the going down of the son, I then ate a bis-
cuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. I had all this time observed
no sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of reli-
gion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted
to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch
than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and so did not re-
ally know what any of the days were: but now hav-
ing cast up the days as above, I found I had been
there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and set apart
every seventh day for a sabbath: though I found, at
the end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to
fail me, I contented myself to use it more sparinglv;
and to write down only the most remarkable events
of my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them
so as to provide for them accordingly; but I bought
all my experience before I had it; and what I am
going to relate was one of the most discouraging ex-
periments that I had made at all.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
barley and rice which I had so surprisingly found
sprungupas I thoaght of themselves. I believe there
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of
barley ; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it
after the rains; the sun being in its southern posi-
tion, going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of
ground, as well as I could with my wooden spade, and
dividing it into two parts, 1 sowed my grain; but as I
was sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that
I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know
when was the proper time for it; so I sowed about
two-thirds of the seed,leaving about a handful of each:
and it was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time
came to any thing; for the dry month following, and
the earth having tbus had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and nev-
er came up at all till the wet season had come again,
and then it grew as if it had been but newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily im-
agined was from the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
np a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the
vernal equinox. This having the rainy months of
March and April to water it,sprung up verv pleasant-
ly, and yielded a very good crop; but having only .
part of the seed left, and not daring to sow all that I
had, I got but a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amounting to above half a peck of each kind.
Hut by this experiment I was made master of my bu-
siness, and knew exactly when was the proper time
to sow; and that I might expect two seed times and
two harvests every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to set-
tle, which was about the month of November, I made
a visit up the country to my bower; where, though
I had not been some months, yet 1 found all things
just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that
I had made was not onlyfirmand entire, but the stakes
which I had cut out of some trees that grew there-
abouts, were all shot out, and grown with long branch-
es, as much as a willow tree usually shoots the first
year after lopping its head; but I could not tell what
tree to call it that these stakes were cut from. I was
surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to
grow as much alike as I could: and it is scarce credi-
ble how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years; so that, though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and
it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all
the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some
more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a sem-
icircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwell-
ing), which I did; and placing the trees or stakes in
a double row, at about eight yards distance from my
first fence, they grew presently; and were at first a
fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for
a defence also; as 1 shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might gen-
erally be divided, not into summer and winter,
AS in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry
seasons, which were generally tbus: From the mid-
dle of February to the middle of April, rainy; the
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the
middle of April till the middle of August, dry; the
sun being then north of the Line. From the middle
of October till the middle of February, dry; the sun
being then to the south of the Line.
^he rainy seasons held sometimes longer and some-
times shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but
this was the general observation I made. After I
had found, by experience, the ill consequences of be-
ing abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself
with provisions beforehand, that I might not be oblig-
ed to go out: and I sat within doors as much as pos-
sible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the
time; for I found great occasion for many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard la-
bour and constant application: particularly, I tried
many ways to make myself a basket; but all the
twigs I could get tor the purpose proved so brittle
that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent
advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used
to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's
in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually are,
verv officious to help, and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and some-
times lending a hand, I had by these means full
knowledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted no-
thing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; 1 resolved
to try. Accordmgly, the next day I went to my
country house, as 1 called it, and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much
as I could desire: wherenpon I came the next time
prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there was great plenty of
them. These I set up to dry within my circle or
hedge; and when they were fit for use, I carried
them to my cave: and here, during the next season,
I employed myself in making, as well as I could, se-
veral baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay
up any thing as 1 had occasion for. Though 1 did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose: and thos af-
terwards I took care never to be without them; and
as my wicker ware decayed, I made more; especial-
ly strong deep baskets, to place my corn in, instead
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold any thing that was liquid, except two
runlets, which were almost full of rum; and some
f lass bottles, some of the common size, and others
which were case bottles) square, for the holding of
waters, spirits, &c. I ha;! not so much as a pot to
boil any thing; except a great kettle which I saved
out of the ship, and which was too big for such use as
1 desired it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meat
by itself. The second thing I would fain have had
was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to
make one; however, I found a contrivance for that
too at last. I employed myself in planting my sec-
ond row of stakes or piles, and also in this wicker
working, all the summer or dry season; when anoth-
er business took me up more time than it could be
imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island; and that I had traveled op the
brook, and Bo on to where I had built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other
aide of the island. I now resolved to travel quite it-
cross to the seashore, on that side: so taking my gun,
a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of pow-
der and shot than usual; with two biscuit-cakes, and
a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store; I
began my journey. When I had passed the vale
where my bower stood, as above, I came within view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day,
I fairly descried land, whether an island or continent
I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from
W. to W. S. W. at a very great distance; by mr
guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues
oft7.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be; otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded by all my observations,
must be near the Spanish dominions: and perhaps
was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was
now. I therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which 1 began now to own and to be-
lieve ordered every thing for the best; I say, I quiet-
ed my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself
with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should certainly one time or other, see some vessel
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eat-
ers, and fail not to murder and devour ull human be-
ings that fall into their hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely
forward, I found this side of the island, where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savan-
nah fields sweetly adorned with flowers aod grau,
and full of jery fine woods. I saw abundance of par-
rots; and fain would have caught one, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak tome.
I did, after taking some pains, catch a young parrot;
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recov-
ered it, I brought it home; but it was some years be-
fore I could make him speak; however, at last I
taught him to call me by my name very familiarly.
Bat the accident that followed, though it be a trifle,
will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to
be, and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself
to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no
need to be venturous: for 1 had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too; especially these
three sorts, viz, goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise.
With these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market
could not have furnished a table better than I, in pro-
portion to the company; and though my case was de-
plorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfuU
ness; as I was not driven to any extremities for food,
but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this journey above two milea
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so ma-
ny turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where
I resolved to sit down for the night; and then I eith-
er reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself
with a row of stakes, set upright in the ground, eith-
er from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature
could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island; for here mdeed the shore was covered
with innumerable turtles; whereas on the other side,
I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some
of which I had seen, and some of which I had not
seen before, and many of them very good meat; but
such as I knew not the names of, except those called
penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was ve-
ry sparing of my powder and shot: and therefore had
more mind to kill a she goat if I could, which I could
better feed on. But though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was
with much more difficulty that I could come near
them, the country being flat and even, and they saw
me much sooner than when I was upon a hill.
I confess this side of the country was much pleas-
anter than mine; yet I had not the least inclination
to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it be-
came natural to me, and it seemed all the while I
was here to be as it were upon a journey, and from
home. However, I traveled along the seashore to-
wards the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again; and that
the next journey I took should be on the other side' of
the island, east from my dwelling, and so round till I
came to my post again : of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island in
my view, that I could not miss my first dwelling by
viewing the country, but I found myself mistaken;
for being come about two or three miles, I found
myself descended into a very large valley, but so
surrounded with bills, and those hills covered with
wood, that I could not see which was my way by any
direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I
knew very well the position of the sun at that time
of the day. And it happened to my farther misfor-
tune, that the weather proved hazy for three or four
days while I was in this valley; and not being able
to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortable,
and at last was obliged to find out the seaside, look
for my post, and come back the same way I went;
and then by easy journeys returned homeward, the
weather being exceedingly hot, and my gun, ammu-
nition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it: and running to take hold of it, I
caught it and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had oft-
en been musing whether it might not be possible to
get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be all spent. I made a collar for this little
creature, and with a string which Ihad made of some
ropeyarn which I always carried about me, lied him
along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my
bower, and there I enclosed him and left him ; for I
was very impatient to be at home, from whence I
had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old butch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. This little wandering journey, without
a settled place of abode had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was
a perfect settlement to me, scompared to that; and
it rendered every thing about me so comfortable, that
I resolved I would never go a great way from it a-
gain, while it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my Pol, who began now to be
more domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had penned within my little circle, and resolv-
ed to fetch it home, and ipve it some food; according-
ly I went, and found it where I left it; for indeed ii
could not get out, but was almost starved for want of
food; I went and cut boughs of trees and branches of
such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and
having fed it, I tied it as I did before to lead it away;
but it was so tame with being bungry, that I had no
need to have tied it: for it followed me like a dog:
and as I continually fed it, the creature became so
loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that
time one of my domesties also, and would never
leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of
my landing on the island, having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of my being delivered
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole
day in bumble and thankful acknowledgments for
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary con-
dition was attended with, and without which it might
have been infinitely more miserable. I gave bumble
and hearty thanks to God, for having been pleased to
discover to me even that it was possible I might be
more happy in this solitary condition than I should
have been in the enjoyment of society, and in all the
pleasures of the world: that he could fully make up
to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the
want of buman society, by his presence, and the com-
munication of his grace to my soul, supporting, com-
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon bis pro-
vidence here, and to hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its miser-
able circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomi-
nable life I led all the past part of my days; and now,
having changed both my sorrows and my joys, my
very desires altered, my affections changed their
guests, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at first coming, or indeed for two years
past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my honting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at
my condition would break out upon me on a sudden,
and my very heart would die within me, to think of
the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and
how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars
and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
without redemption. ID the midst of the greatest
composures of my mind, this would break out upon
me like a itorra, and make me wring my hands, and
weep like a child: sometimes it would take me in
"ie middle of my work, and I would immediately tit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour
or two together: this was still worse to me; but if 1
could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by
words, it would go off; and my grief being exhaust-
ed, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee:"
immediately it occured that vhese words were to me:
. why else should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man ?" Well
then," said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what
ill consequence can that be, or what matters it,
though the world should forsake me; seeing on the
other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the
favour and blessing of God, there would be no com-
parison in the loss?"
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
should ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thought 1 was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thought, and I durst not speak the words, " How
canst thou be such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly,
"to be thankful for a condition, which, however thou
mayst endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" Here I
stopped: but though I could not say I thanked God
for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God
for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providen-
ces, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never o-
pened the Bible, or shot it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my
goods; and for assisting me afterwards to save it out
of the wreck of the ship.
YOI.I. f
Tbus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be observ-
ed, that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly
divided my time, according to the several daily em-
ployments that were before me; such as, first, My
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I
constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day:
secondly, Going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took me up three hours every morning,
when it did not rain: thirdly, Ordering, curing, pre-
serving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply. These took up great part of the day;
also it is to be considered, that in the middle of the
day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of
the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup-
posed to work in ; with this exception, that sometimes
I changed my hours of honting and working, and
went to work in the morning, and abroad with my
gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
be added the extreme laboriousness of my work; the
many hours which, for want of tools, want of help,
and want of skill, every thing I did took up out of my
time: for example, I was full two-and-forty days ma-
king me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in
ray cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and
a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree which -was to
be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days cutting down, and two
more in cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a
log or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips,
till it was light enough to move; then I turned it,
and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board,
from end to end; then turning that side downward,
s»t the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
wee inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Anf
one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece
of work; but labour and patience carried me through
that, and many other things: I only observe this in
particular, to show the reason why so much of my
time went away with so little work, viz. that what
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was
a vast labour, and required a prodigious time, to do
alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with pa-
tience and labour I went through many things; and,
indeed, every thing that my circumstances made nec-
essary for me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug for them was not
great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, having lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season : but now
my crop promised very well; when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again by eno
mies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to
keep from it; as first, the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of
tin; blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came
up, and ate it so close that it could get no time fti
shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but br making an inclo-
sure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great
deal of toil; and the more, because it required speed.
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to
my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures hi
the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long; so in a little time the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to rum
me siow, when it was in the ear: forgoing along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorfe,
swho rtood, a» it were, watching till I should bs gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always bad
my gun with me); I had no sooner shot, but therls
arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not see"h
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a
few days they would devour all my hopes; that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop
at all; and what to do I could not tell: however, I
resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I
went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that
as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so
great, but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked off,
as if gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they
dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I
was so provoked that I could not have patience to stay
till more came on, knowing that every grain they eat
uow, was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the
consequence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired a-
gain, and killed three of them. This was what I wish-
ed for; so I took them up, and served them as we
serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them
in chains for a terror to others. It is impossible to
imagine that this should have such an effect as it had;
for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in
short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I
could never see a bird near the place as long as my
scarecrows hong there. This I was very glad of, yuu
may be sure; and about the latter end of December,
which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped
my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it
down: and all I could do was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broad swords or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms of the ship. However,
as my first crop was but small, I had no great diffi-
culty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way,
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed il
out with my hands; and at the end of all my harvest-
ing, I found that out of my half peck of seed I had
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and
a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had
no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that in time it would please God to sup-
ply me with bread; and yet here 1 was perplexed a-
gain; for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor
if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it: these
things being added to my desire of having a good
quantity of store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve
it all for seed against the next season; and in the
mean time, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, viz. the strange
multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing
this one article of bread.
I. that was reduced to a mere state of nature,found
this to my daily discouragement, and was made more
sensible of it every hour, even after 1 had got the first
handful of seed-corn. which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no
spade or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by
making a wooden spade, as I observed before; but
this did my work but in a wooden manner; and tho'
it cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want
of fron, it not only wore out the sooner, but made my
work the harder, and performed it much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sown, I had no
harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag
a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as
it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things I wanted to fence it, secure
it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it: then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet
all these things I did without, as shall be observed;
and the corn was an inestimable comfort and advan-
tage to me: all this, as 1 said, made every thing labo-
rious and tedious to me, but that there was no help
for; neither was my time so much loss to me, be-
cause, as I had divided it, a certain part of it was ev-
ery day appointed to these works; and as I resolved
to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater
quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for making corn fit for my use.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade; which, when it was done was but a sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour
to work with it: however I went through that, and
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as
near my house as I could find them to my mind, and
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set bv-fore, and
knew it would grow; so that in one year's time I
knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want but little repair. This work took me up
full three months; because a great part of the time
was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occa-
sipm; always observing, that while I was at work, I
diverted myself with talking to my parot, and teach-
ing him to speak; and I quickly learned him to know
his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty load,
Pol; which was the first word I ever heard spoken
in the island by any mouth but my own. This there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now as I said, I bad a great employment upon my
hands, as follows: I had long studied, by some means
or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which,
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come
at them: however, considering the heat of the cli-
mate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay,
1 might botch up some such pot as might, being dried
in the sun, be hard and strong enough to bear hand-
ling, and to hold any thing that was dry, and requir-
ed to be kept so; and as this was necessary in the
preparing corn, meal, fyc. which was the thing I was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could,
and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be
put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this pastil; what odd, mishapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily ; and how many fell in piece•
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried : and, in a word, how, after labouring hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I could not make above two large eartlk-
en ugly things (1 cannot call them jars), in about two
months' labour. .
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break ; and
as between the pot and the basket there was a littte
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
straw; and these two pots being to stand alwayi dry,
I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the
meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success ; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing that my hand
turned to; and the heat of the sun baked them verv
hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold liquids and bear the fire,
which none of these could do. It happened some time
after, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it out after 1 had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthen ware ves^
•els in the fire, burned as hard as a stone, and red as
a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it: and said
to myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire so as to
make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kilu,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a
pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack at
all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that beat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass,
if I had gong on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till
the pots began to abate of the red colour; and watch-
ing them all night that I might not let the fire abate
too fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will
not say handsome pipkins, and two other earthen pots,
as hard burnt as could be desired; and one of them
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I want-
ed no sort of earthen ware for my use ; but I must
needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were very
indifferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way
of making them but as the children make dirt pies,
or as a woman would make pies that never learned
to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever e-
qual to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
tience to stay till they were cold before I set one on
the fire again, with some water in it to boil me some
meat, which it did admirably well; and with a piece
or a kid I made some very good broth, though I
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requi-
site to make it so good as I would have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was
at a great loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was
as perfectly unqualified for a stone cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big e-
nough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but
could find none at all, except what was in the solid
rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out: not
indeed were the rocks in the island of sufficient hard-
ness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pes-
tle, nor would break the corn without filling it with
sand: so, after a great deal of time lost in searching
for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much
easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with
ray axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire,
and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I
made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood cal-
led iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by a-
gaitut I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed
voI.I. V*
to myself to grind, or rather pound my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve or scarce, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
busk, without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even
but to think on; for I had nothing like the necessary
tiling to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff to
scarce the meal through. Here I was at a full stop
for many months; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags ;1 had
goats' hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor
spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools to
work it with: all the remedy I found for this was,
at last recollecting I bad among the seamen's clothes
which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of
calico or muslin, with some pieces of these I made
three small sieves, proper enough for the work; and
tbus I made shift for some years: how I did after-
wards I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be consider-
ed, and how I should make bread when I came to
have corn: for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part
there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern
myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed
puzzled. At length I found out an expedient for
that also, which was this; I made some earthen ves-
sels, very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about
two feet in diameter, and not above nine inches deep:
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other,
and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire' upon my hearth, which I had pav-
ed with some square tiles, of my own making and
burning also; but I should not call them square.
When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or
live coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so
as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and covering
them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to
the heat; and thos, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley loaves, and became, in a
little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain; for
I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice;
but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them
except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here 5
for, it is to be observed, in the intervals of these things,
I had my new harvest and hosbandry to manage: I
reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as
well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in ; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, inso-
much that now I resolved to begin to use it freely;
for my bread had been quite gone a great while: I
resolved also to see what quantity would be sufficient
for me a whole year, atad to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could con-
sume in a year; so 1 resolved to sow just the same
quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, Sec.
All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I was not without some secret wishes that
I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main
land, and an inhabited country, I might find some
way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps
at last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and that I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers ot
Africa; that if I once came in their power, I should
run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being
killed, and perhaps of being eateu; for I had heard
that the people of the Carribbean coast were canni-
bals, or man-eaters, and I knew, by the latitude, that
I could not be far off from that shore. Then suppo-
•ing they were not cannibals, yet that they might kill
me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen in-
to their hands, even when they have been ten or
twenty together; much more I, who was but one,
and could make little or no defence; all these things,
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and
did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, took up none
of my apprehensions at first; yet my head ran migh-
tily upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain: then I thought I would go and look
It our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown
up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when
we were first cast away. She lay nearly where she
did at first, but not quite; having turned'by the force
of the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward,
against a high ridge or beachy rough sand; but no
water about her, as before. If I had had hands to
have refitted her, and to have launched her into the
water, the boat would have done very well, and I
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easi-
ly enough; but I might have foreseen, that I could
no more turn her and set her upright upon her bot-
tom, than I could remove the island; however, I
went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
•oulddo; suggesting to myself, that if I could but
turn her down, and repair the damages she had re-
aelred, she would be a very good boat, and I might
venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un-
dermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the
fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her
up again, or get under her, much less to move her
forward towards the water: so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased,
rather than diminished, as the means for it seem-
ed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not pos-
sible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as
the natives of those climates make, even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands, of the trunk of a
great tree. This I not only thought possible, but
easy, and pleased myself extremely with the idea of
making it, and with my having much more conven-
ience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians: but
not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. the
want of hands to move it into the water when it was,
made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them: for what could it avail me, if, after 1 had cho-
sen my tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and
might be able with my tools to hew and dub the out-
side into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut
out the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a
boat of it if, after all this, I must leave it just where
I found it; and was not able to launch it into the water.
One would imagine, if I had had the least reflec-
tion upon my mind of my circumstances while I was
making this boat, I should have immediately thought
how I was to get it into the sea: but my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage in it that I never once
considered how I should get it off the land; and it
was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five
fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the
water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fsol
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determin-
ing whether I was able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launchmg my boat came often'into my
head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries mto it, by
this foolish answer: Let me first make it; I warrant
I will find some way or other to get it along when it
is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the ea-
gerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went.
I felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether
Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the
Temple of Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches di-
ameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet, where it lessened, and then parted into branch-
es. It was not without infinite labour that I felled
this tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at
the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut off:
after this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to
a proportion, and to something like the bottom of a
boat, that it might swim upwright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the in-
side, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of
it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet
and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big
enough to have carried six and twenty men, and con-
sequently big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really much
bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was
made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure; and there remained
nothing but to get it into the water; which, had I ac-
complished, I make no question but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to
be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me; though they cost me inexpressible labour too.
It lay about one hondred yards from the water, and
not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this dis-
couragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity: this I begun, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains; (but who grudge
pains that have their deliverance in view ?) when this
was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it
was still much the same, for I could no more star the
canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measur-
ed the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock
or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing
I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work; and when I began to enter
upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how
broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found by
the number of hands I had, having none but my own,
that it must have been ten or twelve years before I
could have gone through with it; for the shore lay so
high, that at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with great
reluctaney, I was at length obliged to give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort as before;
for, by a constant study and serious application to the
word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I
gained a different knowledge from what I had before;
I entertained different notions of things; I looked
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed,
no desires about: in a word, I had nothing to do with
it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it looked,
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a
place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well
might I say, as father Abrabam to Dives, " Between
me and thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the
wickedness of the world; I had neither the last of
the flesh, the last of the eye, nor the pride of life. I
had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now ca-
pable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor;
or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor
over the whole country which I had possession of;
there were no rivals; I had no competitor, none CD
dispute sovereignty or command with me: I might
have raised ship loadings of corn, but I had no use for
it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. 1 had tortoise or turtle enough, but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use:
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships;
and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to
have cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when
it had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valua-
ble: I had enough to eat and supply my wants, and
what was the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than
I could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sow-
ed more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled; the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground;
I could make no more use of them than for fuel, aiul
that I bad no other occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are of no farther good to us than
tor our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give to others, we enjoy only as much as we can use,
and no more. The most covetous griping miser iit
the world would have been cured of the vice of cove-
tousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had
no room for desire, except it was for things which I
had not, and they were comparatively but trifles,
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted
before, a parcel of money, aa well gold as silver,
about thir^-rix pounds sterling. Alas! there th*
nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of
business for it; and I often thought within myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco pipes, or fora handmill to grind my corn; nay,
I would have given it all for sixpenny worth of turnip
and carrot seed from England, or for a handful of
peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had
not the-least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the
damp of the cave in the wet seasons ; and if I had had
the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same
case—they had been of no manner of value to me be-
cause of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
more comfortable in itself than it was at first, and
much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. I
frequently sat down to meet with thankfuhiess, and
admired the hand of God's providence, which had
tbus spread my table in the wilderness: I learned to
look more upon the bright side of my condition, and
less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoy-
ed rather than what I wanted: and this gave me
sometimes such secret comforts that I cannot express
them ; and which I take notice of here, to put those
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy
comfortably what God has given them, because they
see and covet something that he has not given them.
All our discontents about what we want appeared to
me to spring from the want of thankfuluess for what
we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall into
such distress as mine was: and this was, to compare
my present condition with what I at first expected it
would be : nay, with what it would certainly have
'keen, if the good providence of God had not wonder-
Cully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore,
where I not only could come at her, but could bring
what I got out of her to the shore, for my relief and
comfort; without which, I had wanted for tools to
work, weapons for defence, and gunpowder and shot
for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in rep-
resenting to myself, in the most lively colours, how I
must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship-
I could not have so much as got any food, except fish
and turtles; and that, as it was long hefore I found
any of them, I must have perished; that I should have
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that
if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I
had no way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from
the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but mus»
gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like
a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible or tne
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful for
my present condition, with all its hardships and mis-
fortunes; and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery,
to say, Is any affliction like mine? Letthem consider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
their case might have been, if Providence had thought
fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes: and this was compar-
ing my present condition with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the baud of
Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly des-
titute of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been
well instructed by my father and mother; neitherhad
they been wanting to me, in their endeavours to infuse
an early religious awe of God into my mind, a sense
of my duty, and what the nature and end of my being
required of me. But, alas! falling early into the sea-
faring life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of
the fear of God, though his terrors are always before
them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life and
seafaring company, all that little sense of religion
which I had entertained was laughed out of me by'
my messmates; by a hardened despising of dan-
gers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to
me; by my long absence from all manner of oppor-
tunities to Converse with any thing but what was like
myself, or to hear any thing that was good, or tending
towards it.
So void was I of every thing that wat good, or of
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portugueae
master of a ship, my being planted so well in the Bra-
zils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like,) I never had once the words, Thank God, so
much as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the
greatest distress had I so much as a thought to pray
to him, or so much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon
me! no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it
was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
J had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences
had attended me since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bouutifully with me,—had not
only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved,
but had so plentifully provided for me,—this gave me
great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and
that God had yet mercies in store for me.
XVith these reflections, I worked my mind up, not
only to a resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had
not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so
many mercies which J had no reason to have expect-
ed in that place, that I ought never more to repine at
my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks
for that daily bread, which nothing but a cloud of
wonders could have brought; that I ought to consid-
er I had been fed by a miracle, even as great as that
of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of
miracles: and that I could hardly have named a place
in the uninhabitable part of the world where I could
have been cast more to my advantage ; a place where,
as I had no society, which was my affliction on one
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves
or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous or poisu-
nous creatures which I night feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as
my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life
of mercy another: and I wanted nothing to make it
a life of comfort, but to make myself sensibleof God's
goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these
things, I went away, and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water, a
Htle and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of
the month on which any remarkable thing happened
to me: and, first by casting up times past, 1 remem-
ber that there was a strange concurrence of days in
the various providences which befell me, and which,
if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days
as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day af-
terwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, and
made a slave; the same day of the year that I esca-
ped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same day-year afterwards I made my escape from
Sallee in the boat; and the same day of the yearl was
born on, viz. the 30th of September,thatsame day I had
my life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after,
when I was cast on shore in this island: so that my
wicked life and my solitary life began both on one
day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the buiscuit which I brought
out of the ship: this I had busbanded to the last de-
gree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a day
for above a year; and yet I was quite without bread
for near a year before I got any corn of my own; and
great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at
all, the getting it being, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to
linen I had none for a great while, except some che-
quered shirts which I found in the chests of the oth-
er seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because
many times I could bear no clothes on but a shirt;
and it was a very great help to me that I had, among
all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen
of shirts. There were also, indeed, several thick
watch-coats of the seamen's, which were left, but
they were too hot to wear: and though it is true that
the weather was so violently hot that there was no
need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked, no,
though I had been inclined to it, which I was not,
uor could I abide the thought of it, though I was all
alone. The reason why I could not go quite naked
was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of
the sun beating with such violence as it does in that
place, would give me the head-ach presently, by
darting so directly upon my head, without a cap or
hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put
on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider abont put-
ting the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into
some order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had,
and my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats that I had by me,
and with such other materials as I had; so I set to
work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I
made most piteous work of it. However I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while: as for breech-
es or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed
till afterwards.
I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all tin;
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and
I had bung them up, stretched out with sticks, in the
sun, by which means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit for little, but others I found
very useful. The first thing I made of these was a
great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside,
to shoot off the rain; and this I performed so well,
that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of
the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches o-
pen to the knees, and both loose; for they were rath-
er wanting to keep me cool than warm. I must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly
made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse
tailor. However they were such as I made very
good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it hap-
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap be-
ing uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in a great want
of one, and had a great mind to make one; I had
Been them made in the Brazils, where thev were
very useful in the great heats which are there; and
I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox: besides us I was obli-
ged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to
me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains at it, and was a great while before I could
make any thing likely to hold ; nay after I thought I
had hit the way I spoiled two or three before I made
one to my mind; but at last I made one that answer-
ed indifferently well : the main difficulty I found was
to make it to letdown; I could make it spread, but if it
did not let down too, and draw in, it was not portable
for me any way but just over my head, which would
Hot do. However, at last, as 1 said, I made one to
•Mirer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
•o that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept
on "W.TOQ «o effectually that I could walk out in tbt
hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I
could before in the coolest; and when I had no need
<£ it, could close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thos I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether tbus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say,
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not bet-
ter than the utmost enjoyment of homan society in
the world?
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary tiiing happened to me, but I lived on in
the same course, in the same posture and place, just
as before; the chief things I was employed in, be-
sIdes my yearly labour of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one
year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this year-
ly labour and my daily pursuit of going out with my
gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe, which at
last I finished: so that by digging a canal to it of six
feet wide and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which
was so vastly big, as 1 made it without considering
beforehand, at I ought to do, how I should be able to
launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to
be wiser the next time: indeed the next time, though
I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place
where I could not get the water to it at any less dis-
tance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet nsjl
saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over:
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour in hopes of having a boat to go off
to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it vu not at all answerable to the de-
sign which I had in view when I made the first; I
mean of venturing over to the terra firma, where it
was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the small-
ness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design,
and now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat,
my next design was to make a cruise round the isl-
and; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land,
so the discoveries I made in that little journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast; and
now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing
round the island.
For this purpose, that I might do every thing with
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in
my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pie-
ces of the ship's sails which lay in store, and of which
I had a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast
and sail, and tried the boat I found she would sail
very well: then I made little lockers, or boxes, at
each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries,
ammunition, £src. into, to be kept dry, either from
rain or the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hol-
low place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I
could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of
the sun offme, like an awning; and thos I every
now and then took a httle voyage upon the sea: but
never went far out, nor far from the little creek. At
last, being eager to view the circumference of my lit-
tle kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and accor-
dingly I victualed my ship for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of loaves, (cakes I should rather call them)
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice
(a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and
two large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests; these
I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in
the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than
I expected; for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found
a great ledge of rocks lie oat about two leagues into
the sea, some above water, some under it; and be-
yond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more.
ao that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to grre
over my enterprise, and come back again, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and,
above all, doubting how I should get back again ; to
I came to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of
an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I
got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went
on shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to 0-
verlook that point, where I saw the full extent of ft.
and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed'a most furious car-
rent, which ran to the east, and even came close to the
point; and I took the more notice of it, because I
saw there might be some danger, that when I came"
into it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength
of it, and not be able to make the island again : and,
indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it
would have been so; for there was the same current
on the other side the island, only that it set off at *
farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do but to get
out of the first current, and I should presently be in
;ui eddy.
I lay here however, two days, because the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E. *«l that being just
contrary to the said current, made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore fbr the breach, nor to
go too far off because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having a-
VQ*. a. G
bated over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
hut lama warning piece again to all rash and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I
found myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill; it carried my boat along
with it with such violence that all I could do could not
keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found
it horried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on my left hand. There was no wind stir-
ring to help me, and all I could do with my paddlea
Signified nothing: and now I began to give myself
over for lost; tor as the current was on both sides of
flte island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did
I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no
prospect before me but of perishing, not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big aU
most as 1 could lift, and had tossed it into the boat:
and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say,
ojte of my earthen pots; but what was all this to be-
ing driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure,
there was no shore, no main land or island, fora thou-
aand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of God to make even the most miserable condition of
mankind worse. Now I looked back upon my des-
date, solitary island, as the most pleasant place tn the
'world; and all the happiness my heart could wisk
for was to be there again. I stretched out my lands
to it with eager wishes: "O happy desert!" said L
* I shall never see thee more. O miserable creature!
irtither am I going!" Then I reproached myself
with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined
at my solitary condition; and now what would I give
to be on shore there again! Thos we never see the
true state of our condition till it it illustrated to us by
iU contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy,
but by the want of it . It is scarce possible to '"<Tgvsa
(he consternation I wat now in, being driven from tof
beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be),
into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in thp
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. Howev?-
er, I worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost
exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the north-
ward, that is, towards the side of the current which
the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about
noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt
a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little, and especial-
ly when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful dis-
tance from the island, and had the least cloudv or ha*
zy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it ; but the weath-
er continuing clear,! applied myself to get up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the
north as much as possible, to get out of the current
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat Be-
gan to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of
the water some alteration of the current was near;
for where the current was so strong, the water was
foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the cm>
rent abate; and presently I found to the east, at a-
bout half a'mile, a breach of sea upon some rocks e
these rocks I found caused the current to part again,
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other re-
turned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a
strong eddy, which run back again to the north-west,
with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
been in such-like extremities, may guess what my
present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my
boat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind also
freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running
•beerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
•ddy wmier foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my waj
buck again, directly towards the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current
which carried me away at first: so that when I came
near the island, I found myself open to the northern
shore of it, that is to say, the other end of the island,
opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it
was spent, and served me no farther. However, 1
found that being between two great currents, vi».
that on the south side, which had burried me away,
and that on the north, which lay about a league on the
other side; I say, between these two, in the wake of
the island, I found the water at least still, and run-
ning no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair
for me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, beng then with-
in a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this disaster, stretching out)
as is described before, to the southward, and casting
off the current more southerly, had, of course, made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very
strong, but not direct'y setting the way my course lay,
which was due west, but almost full north. Howev-
er, having a fresh gsle, I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, caras
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being
smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and n>-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I brought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of th*
voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get horne
"with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and kne»
too much of the case, to think of attempting it by the
Wa I went out; and what might be at the other afr
(I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any
mind to run any more ventures ; ao I only resolved ID
the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might
lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if
I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts,
coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay,
about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very con-
venient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for
her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat ve-
ry safe, I went on shore, to look about me, and see
where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began
my march. The way was comfortable enough after
such a voyage as I had been upon, and 1 reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found every thing
standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good or-
der, being, as I said before, my country house.
I got over the fence and laid me down in the shade,
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep:
but judge, you, if you can, that read my story, whata
surprise I must be in, when I was awakened out of
ray sleep by a voice, calling me by name several
times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin
Crusoe! % Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where
have you been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did
not wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping
and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke
to me; but as the voice continued to repeat " Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to wake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened,
and started up in the utmost consternation; but no
•oooer were my eyes open, but I saw my Pol
sitting on the top of the hedge; and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me: for just m
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly
that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close
to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe! Where
are you? Where have you been s* How came you
here ?" and such things as I bad taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he should
just keep about the place, and no where else: but as
I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Pol,
I got over it: and holding out my hand, and calling
him by his name, Pol, the sociable creature came to
me, and sat upon my tbumb, as he used to do, and
continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been ? just
as if he had been overjoyed to see me again: and so
I carried him home along with me.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for sometime,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still, and
reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my
side of the island; but I knew not how it was prac-
ticable to get it about. As to the east side of the isl-
and, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart
would shrink, land my very blood run chill, but to
think of it; and as to the other side of thdHsland, I
did not know how it might be there; but supposing
the current ran with the same force against the shore
at the east as it pnssed by it on the other, I might run.
the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
earned by the island, as I had been before of being
oariped away from it; so, with these thoughts, I con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had
been the product of so many months' labour to make
it, and of so many more to get it into the sea-
Iji this government of my temper I remained usat
a year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may
well suppose; and my thoughts being very much
composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted m
resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I
thought I lived really very happily in all things, e«-
cept that of society.
s I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe I could,upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering
how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthen ware, and contrived well enough to
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely ea-
sier and bettei*; because I made things round and
shapable, which before were filthy things indeed to
look on. But I think I was never more vain of my
own performance,or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco pipe
and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like other earthen-
ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted \vith it; for I
Tiad always been used to smoke:' and thare were
Jiipes in the ship, but I forgot them at fifst, not think-
Jang that there was tobacco in the island; and after-
wards, when I searched the ship again, I could not
come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also I improved much, and made
abundance^of necessary baskets, as well JIB my inveor
tion showed me; though not very handsome, yet
they were such as were very handy and convenient
for my laying things up in, or fetching things home.
.For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang
tit up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in piece*,
and bring it home m a basket; and the like by a tu>
«le: I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece
or twoof the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring
them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me.
'Also large deep baskets were the receivers of my
torn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
ami cured, and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated consid-
erably: this was a want which it was impossible foi
me to supply, and I began seriously to consider what
I must do when I should have no more powder; that
a to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
it observed, in the third year of my being here, kept
a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was m
hopes of getting a he-goat t but 1 could not by any
means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat;
snd as I never could find in my heart to kill her, she
died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I
let myself to study some art to trap and snare the
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive; and particularly, I wanted a she goat great
with young. For this purpose, 1 made snares to
hamper them; and I do believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good,
for I had no wire, and I always found them broken,
tad my bait devoured. At length I resolved to try a
pitfall: so I dug several pits in the earth, in places
where Ihad observed the goats used to feed, and
ever those pits I placed hordles, of my own making
too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put my ears of barley and dry rice, without
letting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the
goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could
•ee the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten f 4 gone;
this was very discouraging. However, I altered my
traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going
one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them
a large old he-goat, and in one of the others three
kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him;
that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive,
which was what I wauted; I could have killed him,
but that was not my business, nor would it answer mv
end; so 1 even let him out, and he ran away as if Ii*
had been frightened out of his wits. But I did not
then know what I afterwards learned, that honger
will tame a lion. If 1 had let him stay there i.'ir.•*
or four days without food, and then have carried som*
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would havs
been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighfv
sagacious, tractable creatures,' where they are wofl
used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time: then 1 went to the three ki:ls,
MMl taking them one by one, I tied them with string
together, and with some difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would .feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them,and
they began to be tame. And now 1 found that if I e»-
'pected to supply myself with goat's flesh when 1 had
no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was
my only way; when, perhaps, I might have them »'
bout my house like a flock of sheep. But then it o»-
corred to me, that I must keep the tame from t&B
wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up: and the only way for this was, to havt
some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either
with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually
that those within might not break out, or those with-
out break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity for dofhg
it, my first work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, where there was likely to be herbage ft)r
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to
keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I
ltnd very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a
place very proper for all these (being a plain open
piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people cull
it in the western colonies), which had two or three
jittle drillt of fresh water in it, and at one end wat
vol. I. JB2
very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them, I began by enclosing this piece
of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale
must have been at least two miles about. Nor was
the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it
was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough
to do it in ; but 1 did not consider that my goats would
be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the
whole island, and I should have so much room to
chase them in that I shouldiiever catch them. ,
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe a-
bout fiftv yards, when this thought occurred to me;
so I presently stopped short, and for the first begin-
ning I resqjved to enclose a piece of about one bun-
dred and fifty yards in length, and one bundred yards
in breadth, which as it would maintain as many as I
should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock
increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the bestpart of it, and u»-
ed them to feed as near me as possible, to make them
familiar; and very often I would go and carry them
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; so that after my enclosure was
finished, and 1 let them loose, they would follow me
up and down, bleating after me for a handful of com.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food; and after
that 1 enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted them; and gates out of one piece
of ground into another. .
Bat this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, uthing
which indeed in the beginning I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
"*M really an agreeable surprise; for now I get u£
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk
in a day. And as nature who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to
make use of it; so I, that had never milked a cow much
less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very read-
ily and handily, though after a great many essays and
miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last,
and never wanted it afterwards. {
How mercifully can our Creator treat his creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be
overwhelmed in destruction .' How canjie sweeten
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise
him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was
here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw noth-
ingi at first, but to perish for bunger!
It would have tnade a stoic smile to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dmner: there was
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island;
I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute com-
mand; I could bang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and no rebels among all my subjects. Then
to sea how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended
by my servants! Pol, as if he had been my favourite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My
dog, who was now grown very old and 4razy, and had
found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always
at my right hand; and two cats, one on one side of
the table, and one on the other, expecting now and
then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first, for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred neu#my habitation by my own
hand; but one of them haVmg multiplied by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I
had preserved tame; whereas the rest run wild in the
woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last;
for they would often come into my house, and plun-
der me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them,
and did kill a great many; at length they left me.—
With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner, I
lived; neither could I be said to want any thing but
•oriety: and of that, some time after this, I was like
to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to
hau: the use of my boat, though very loath to run
any more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough with-
out her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind
to go down to the point of the island, where, asl have
ntid, in my last ramble, I went up the hil I to see how
the shore lay, and how the current set, that 1 might
•ce what I had to do: this inclination increased upon
me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thith-
er by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so;
but had any one in England been to meet such a man
AS I was, it ir.ust either have frightened him, or raised
a great deal of laughter: and asl frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the no-
tion of my traveling through Yorkshire, with such an
aquipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a
dtutch ot'my figure, as follows:
I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of agoat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me as to shoot the rain olFfrom running
into my neck: nothing being so burtful in these cli-
mates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the. same; the breeches
were made of the skin of an.ofd he-goat, whose hair
bung down such a length on either side, that, like
pantaloons, it reaehcd'Mhthe middle of my legs:
•tockings :uid shoes I had none, but. had made me a
pair of somethings, I scarce know what to call them,
like buskins, to ;iap over my legs, and lace on either
ode like spatterdashes: but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of
instead of a sword and dagger, bung a little igw
and ft hatchet; one on one side, and one on thaothep.
I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the
snmt; manner, which bung over my shoulder; and at
the end of it, under my left arm, bung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too; in one of which bung
my powder, in the other my shot. At my hack I
Carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun ; and
Over my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat's skin um-
brella, but which, after all, was the most necessary
thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my
face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto like as
one might expect from a man not at all careful of it,
and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinoi.
My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was
about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scis-
sors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short,
except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mabometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did: of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not say
dey were long enough to hang my hat upon them,
but they were of a length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as, in England, would have passed
for frightful.
But all this is by the by; for, as to my figure, I
had so few to observe'tne that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I traveled first along the seashore,
directly to the place where! first brought my boat to
an anchor, to get upon theflkks; and having no boat
now to take care of, I ucnwner the land, a nearer
way, to the same height that I was upon before;
when looking forward to the point of the rocks which
lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my
boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea
all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no cur-
rent, any more there than in any other places. I
was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved
to spend some time in the observing it, to see if noth-
ing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; bat i
was presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide
of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the cur-
rent of waters from some great river on the shore,
must be the occasion of this current; and that accor-
ding as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or from the north, this current came nearer, or went
.farther from the shore; for waiting thereabouts till
evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current
again as before, only that it ran farther off, being near
half a league from the shore; whereas in my case, it
set close upon the shore, and burried me and my ca-
noe along with it; which, at another time, it would
not have done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again: but when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits, at the
remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any patience; bat, on
the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious; and this was, that
I would build, or rather make me another periagua
or canoe; and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it, under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time,
I had enlarged into sevJBI apartments or caves, one
within another. One oHnese, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall 01
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my
stores of provisions, especially my corn, some in the
far, cut off short from the straw, and the other Bib-
bed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view,
of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther with-
in the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and
sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in its
season : and whenever I had occasion for more corn,
I had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat: and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also: for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair;
that is to say, 1 kept the hedge which encircled it in
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, which
at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, always cut so that they
might spread and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable shade; which they did effectually to
my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent al-
ways standing, being a piece of a sail spread over
poles, set up for that purpose, and which never want-
ed any repair or renewing; and under this I had
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things;
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our
seabcdding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion
to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my coun-
try habitation.
Adjoining to this I had mf enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say my goats; and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground,
1 was so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats
should break through, that I never left off, till, with
infmite labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge
<o full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it WM rather a pale than a hedge, and there VM
Mara room to put a hand through between them;
whieh afterwards, when those stakes grew as thsy all
did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure
strong like a wall,—indeed, stronger than any walL
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and th»t
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable support; for I consid-
ered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thos
at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh, milk,
butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the
place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping
them in my reach depended entirely upon my per-
fecting my enclosures to such a degree, that I might
be sure of keeping them together; which, by thn
method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that whem
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so rery thick, that I was forced to pull some of then
up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of rai-
sins, and which I never failed to preserve very care-
fully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet: and indeed they were not only agreea-
ble, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
freshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where 1 had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thithor;
for I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all
things about, or belonging to her, in very good univn
sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but no
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce eret
above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge
again by the currents or winds, or any other accident.
But now I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, about noon, going towurdj
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was Tety
plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thuu-
<ter»truck, or as if I had seen an apparition 51 listened,
I looked rouud me, bat I could hear nothing, nor MM
any thing;! went up to a rising ground, to look farth-
er; I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it
was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any
more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot:
now it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
least imagine ; but, after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of
myself, I came home to my fortification, not feeling,
is we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the
last degree: looking behind me at every two or three
steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying
every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it
possible to describe how many various shapes my af-
frighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my
fancy, and what strange unaccountable whimseys
came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called
it ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued;
whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called
• door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remem-
ber the next morning: for never frightened hare
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were; which is something contrary to the nature of
fuch things, and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing, that 1 formed nothing
but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must
be the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition; for how should any other thing in homan
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks were there of any
other footsteps? And how was it possible a man
should come there? But then to think that Satan
should take buman shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it,
but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and thai
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure 1
should see it,—this was an amusement the other way.
I considered that the Devil might have found out
abundance of other ways to have terrified me than
this of the single print of a foot; that,as I lived quite
on the other side of the island, he would never have
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it
was ten thousand to one whether 1 should ever see it
or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of
the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced entire-
ly: all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself
and with all the notions we usually entertain of the
subtility of the Devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argne
me out of all apprehensions of its being the Devil;
and I presently concluded then, that it must be some
of the savages of the main land over against me, who
had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either
driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were
gone away again to sea; being as loath, perhaps, tti
have stayed in this desolate island, as I would hare
been to have had them.
While these reflections were rollingupon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so hap-
py as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they
did not see my boat, by which they would have con-
cluded that some inhabitant had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me ; then ter-
rible thoughts racked my imagination about their hir-
ing found my boat, and that there were people here;
and that, if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it
should happen so that they should not find me, yet
they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn,
and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I
should perish at last for mere want.
Tbus my fear banished all my religious hope, all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness; as if he that had fed me by miracle hith-
erto could not ;;reserve, by his power, the provision
which he had made for me by his goodness. I re-
proached myself with my laziness, that would not sow
any more corn one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident would intervene to
prevent my enjoying the' crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought so just a reproof that I re-
solved for the future to. have two or three year's com
beforehand; so that, whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret different springs arc
the affections burried about, as different circumstan-
ces present! To-day we love what to-morrow we
hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we sbun; to-
day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even
tremble at the apprehensions of; this was examplifi-
ed in me, at this time, in the most lively manner iuv
aginable; for I, whose only affliction was thatl seem-
ed banished from homan society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut oft" from
mankind, and condemned to what I called silent life;
that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy
to be numbered among the living, or to appear among
the rest of his creatures: that to have seen one of my
own species would have seemed to me a raising me
from death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heav-
en itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation,
could bestow: I say, that I shouldnow tremble at the
very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready
to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent ap-
pearance of a man's having set his foot in the island.
Such is the uneven state of buman life; and it af-
forded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when I had a little recovered my first surprise.
I considered that this was the station of life the infi-
nite}? vise and good providence of God had deter-
mined for me; that as I could not foresee what tKc
ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was
not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was his
ereature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to
gorern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit;
and who, as I was a creature that had offended him,
had likewise a judical right to condemn me to what
punishment he thought fit; and that it was my part
to submit to bear his indignation,because I had sinned
against him. I then reflected, that as God, who was
not ouly righteous, but omnipotent, had thought fit
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver
me i that if he did not think fit to do so, it was my un-
questioned duty to resign myself absolutely and en-
tirely to his will; and, on the other hand, it was mv
duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to
attend the dictates and directions of his daily provi-
dence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, naj,
I may say, weeks and months; and one particular
effect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot &
mit: One morning early, lying in my bed, and fillei
swith thoughts about my danger from the appearances
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much;
upon which these words of the Scripture came into
my thoughts, " Call upon me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Up-
on this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was
not only comforted, but I was guided and encourag-
ed to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I
bad done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening
it to read, the first words that presented to me were,
* Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he
shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord."
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me-
lu auswt-r, I thankfully laid down the book, and was
no more sad, at least on that occasion.
ID the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions.
«nd reflections, it came into my thoughts one day
dial all this might be a mere chimera of ray own, and
l.iat this foot might be the print of my own foot, \rheo
I came OD shore from my boat: this cheered rue 01
a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all
a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own foot;
and why might I not come that way from the boat,
as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again,!
considered also, that I could by no means tell, fo*
certain, where I had trod and where I had not; and
that if, at last, this was only the print of my own
foot, I had played the part of those fools who try tD
make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
frightened at them more than any body.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provis-
ions; for I had little or nothing within doors but some
barley-cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my eve-
ning diversion; and the poor creatures were in great
pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed,
it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up
their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the
belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my
own feet, and that I might be truly said to start at my
own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to
my country-house to milk my flock: but to see with
what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay
down my basket, and run for my life, it would have
made any one have thought I was haunted with an
evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terri-
bly frightened; and so, indeed, 1 had. However an
I went down tbus two or three days, and having seen
nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think
there was really nothing in it but my own imagina-
tion; but I could not persuade myself fully of this till
I should go down to the shore again, and see this
print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if
there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot: but when I came to the
place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any
where thereabouts: secondly, when I oajnq to iueaa-
gre the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not
so large by a great deal. Both these things filled mr
head with new imaginations, and gave me the vaponn
again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold
like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men had been on
shore there; or, in short, that the island was inhab-
ited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security I knew not
O what ridiculous resolutions men take when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means which reason offers for their relief. The first
tiling I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods lest the enemy should find them, and then
frequent the island in prospect of the same or the
like booty: then to the simple thing of digging up
tny two corn fields, lest they should find such a grain
there, and still be prompted to frequent the island:
then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might
not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted
to look farther, in order to find out the persons in-
habiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogita-
tions after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh
upon me, and my head was full of vapours as above.
Tbus fear of danger is ten thousand times more ter-
rifying than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes;
and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by much,
than the evil which we are anxious about: and, which
was worse than all this, I had not that relief in <'is
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that!
hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who
complained not only that the Philistines were upoo
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying
to God in my distress, and resting upon his provi-
dence, as I had done before, for my defence and dellr-
enmce; which, if I had done, I had at least bee*
*aore cheerfully supported under thia new surprise,
and perhapa earned through it with more resolution
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep; and having,
by the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tir-
ed, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly,
«nd waked much better composed than I had ever
been before. And now I began to think sedately:
«nd upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded
Chat this island, which was so exceedingly pleasanV
fruitful, and no farthe from the main land than as Ihad
seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might imag-
ine; that although there were no stated inhabitants
who lived on the spot, yet that there might some-
times come boats off from the shore, "who, either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven
by cross winds, might come to this place; that I had
lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with
the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and
that if at any time they should be driven here,
ft was probable they went away again as soon as ever
they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most I could sug-
gest any danger from, was from any casual acciden-
tal landing of stragling people from the main, who,
as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills, so they made no stay here, but
Trent off again with all possible speed; seldom stay-
ing one night on shore, lest they should not have ths
belp of the tides and daylight back again; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of •ome
Safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land up-
on the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock: upon maturely considering
fiils, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti-
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, afc a dis-
tance from my wall, just where I had planted a doa-
ble row of trees about twelve years before, of which
I made mention: these trees having been planted so
Giick before, they wanted but few pile* to be driven
, tint they might be thicker and ttroa-
ger, and my wall would be soon finished. So that
I had now a double wall; and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and eve-
ry thing I could think of, to make it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put
my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my
wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the sev-
en holds I contrived to plant the muskets, of which
I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the
ship) these I planted like my cannon, and fitted
them into frames, that held them like a carriage, so
that f could fire all the seven guns in two minutes'
lime. This wall I was many a weary month in finish-
ing, and yet never thought myself safe 1i\\.ft wia
done.
When this was done,I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great length every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch
that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and
my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young treo,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Tbus in two years time I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years time I had a wood before my dwel-
ling, grown so monstrous thick and strong that it was
indeed perfectly impassable; and no men of what
kind soever would ever imagine that there was any
thini beyond it, much less an habitation: as for the
way I proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no
avenue), it was by setting two ladders: one to a part
of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living
could come down to me without mischiefing himself;
and if they had come down, they were still on the
outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures buman prudence oouVd
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen
at length, that they were not altogether without jurt
reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon
me for my little herd of goats; they were not only a
ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder
and shot, but also without the fatigue of bunting after
the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage
of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them : one was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much conceal-
ed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
voung goats in each place; so that if any disaster
Imppenen to the flock in general, I might be able to
wise them again with little trouble and time: and
this, though it would require a great deal of time and
labour, I thought was the most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one,
which was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish
for : it was a little damp piece of ground, in the mid-
dle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is ob-
served, I almost lost myself once before, endeavour-
ing to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near
three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was
almost an enclosure by nature; at least it did not
want near so much labour to make it so as the other
pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so fen-
ced it round that my flock, or herd, call it which you
please, who were not so wild now ai at first they
-might be supposed to be, were well enough scrum!
rot. t. H
ih it: so, without any farther delay, I removed tai
young she goats, snd two he goats, to this piece; and
t»hen they were there, I continued to perfect ths
fence, till I had made it as secure as the other; which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
niore time by a great deal. All this labour I was at
the expense of, purely from my apprehensions on the
account of the print of a man's foot which I had seen;
for, as yet, I never saw any homan creature come
near the island; and I had now lived two years un-
der this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my life
much less comfortable than it was before, as may he
Veil imagined by any who know what it is to live in
the constant snare of the fear of man. And thisl
must observe, with grief too, that the discomposure
of my mind had too great impressions also upon the
religious part of my thoughts: fur the dread and
terror of falling into the hands of savages and canni-
bals lay Ki upon my spirits that I seldom found my-
self in a due temper for application to my Maker, at
'least not with the sedate calmness and resignation of
soul which I was wont to do: 1 rather prayed to God
as under great affliction and pressure of mind, sur-
,rounded with danger, and in expectation every night
•f being murdered and devoured before morning; and
1 must testify from my experience, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than thRt of terror and
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to Godj than he is for
* repentance on a sick bed ; for these discomposures
affect the mind, as the others do the body ; and the
discomposure of tin; mind must necessarily be i.s great
a disability as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind,
wit of the body.
But to go on: after I had tbus secured one pan of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place to make such ano-
ther deposit; when wandering more to the west point
ef the island than I had ever done vet, and looking
out to »ea, 1 thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at u
great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's chests, whieh I saved out
nl'imr ship, but I had it not about me; and this was
so remote that I could not tell what to make of it,
though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look auy longer: whether it was a boat OP
not, I do not know, but as 1 descended from the hill ]
could see no more of it; so I.gave it over; only I re-
solved to go no more out without a-perspective glass
in ray pocket. When I was come down the hill to
the end of the island, where, indeed, I had never been
before,I wus presently convinced ilmt the seeing the
print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in.
the island as I imagined : and but that it was a speeinl
providence that I was cast upon the side of the island
where the savages never came, I should easily have
known that nothing was more frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a
little too far out to sea, to shoot over to that side of
the island for harbour: likewise, as they sften met
ami fought in their canoes, the victors, huving taki n
anjr prisoners, would bunt them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all
cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of whidi
hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, aa I
said above, being the S \V. poi'it of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of homan bodies; and particularly, I observed
a place where there had been a fire made, and a uir-
c'.f dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed
the savage wretches had set down to thfir inbuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow creatures.
1 was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it for a long while: all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch ef inhuman.
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
homan nature, which, though I had heard of it often,
yet I never had so near a view of before: in short, 1
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder fmm
my stomach; and having vomited with uncommon vio-
lence,! was a little relieved, but could Dot bear to stay
in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill again
with all the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.
When I came a little out oFthat part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these; and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it that I had still more to
give thanks "for than to complain of: and this, abort
all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been
comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the
hope of his blessing: which was a felicity morethu
sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had
suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before:
for I observed that these wretches never came to tha
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding any thing to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eigh-
teen years, and never saw the least footsteps of hu-
man creature there before; and I might be eighteen
years more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I
did not discover myself to them, which 1 had no man-
ner of occasion to do; it being my only business
keep mysetf entirely concealed where t was, nnlt*
I tbimii a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to. Yet I entertained such an
abhorrence of the savage wretches, thnt I have been
speaking of, and of the wretched inbuman custom of
their devouring and eating one another np, that t con-
tinued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle, for almost two years after this; when I
say my own circle, I mean by it mv three plantations,
viz. my castle, my country seat, which I called my
bower, and my enclosure in the woods: nor did 1
look after this I'or any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me
to these hellish wrett-hes was such, that I was as fear-
ful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself. I
did not so much as go to look after my boat all this
time, but began rather to think of making me anoth-
er; for I could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round tho island to
me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures
at sea; in which, if I had happened to have fallen in-
to their hands, 1 knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as
before; only with this difference, that I used more
caution, and kept my eyes more about rje than I did
before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of tiring
my gun, lest any of them, being on the island, should
happen to hear it. It was therefore a vrry good prov-
idence to me that I had furnished mysrlfwith a tame
breed of goats, nnd that I had no need to hunt any.
more about the woods, or shoot at them ; and if 1 did
catch any of them after this, It was by traps ami
snares, as I had done before: so that tor two year*
after this, I believe I never Sred my gun once on",
though I never went out without it; and, whith was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I
always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my gonUtin belt. I also foe-
fcished up one of the great cutlasses that T had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; 80
that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if you add the former descrip-
tion of myself, ths particular of two pistols, and *
great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but
without a scabbard.
Things going on tbus, as I have said, for some time,
Iseemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these
things tended to show me, more and more, bow far
my condition was from being miserable, compared to
some others; nay, to many other particulars of life,
which it might have pleased God to have made my
lot. It put me upon reflecting how little repining
there would be among mankind at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition
with those that were worse, in order to he thankful,
than be always comparing them with those which are
better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which "I wanted, so, indeed, I thought
that the frights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own
preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention
for my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good
design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much
upon, smd that was, to try if I could not make some
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself
some beer. This was really a whimsical thought,
and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it;
for I presently saw there would he the want of seve-
ral things necessary to the making >ny beer, that it
would be impossible for me to supply: as, first, casks
to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have ob-
served already, I could never compass: no, though I
spent not only msny days, but weeks, nay months, in
attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place,
I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet
'with all them things wanting, I verijy believe, hid
not the frights and terrors I was in about the Ravages
intervened, 1 had undertaken it, and perhaps brought
it to pass too; tor 1 seldom gave any thing over with-
out accomplishing it., when once I had it in my head
to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another
way; for, night and day, I could think of nothing but
how I might destroy some of these monsters in their
cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim thev should bring hitherto destroy. It would
take up a larger volume than this whole work is in-
tended to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatch-
ed, or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the
destroying these creatures, or at least frightening
them so as to prevent their coming hither any more:
but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible
to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it my-
self: and what could one man do among them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them to-
gether, with their darts, or their bows and arrows,
with which they shoot as true to a mark as I could
with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and putting in five
or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kind-
'led their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I
should be unwilling to waste so tduch powder upon
them, my store being now within the quantity of on*
barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at
any certain time, when it might surprise them; and
at best, that it would do little more than just blow the
fire about their ears, and fright them, but not suffi-
cient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it a^
side; and then proposed that I would place myself
in ambush in some convenient plac=, with my three
guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their
bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be
sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every
shot; and then falling in upon them with my three
pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt but that 1C
Uteri; were twenty I should kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thoughts for some weeks; and I was s*
fall of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes,
that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my imagination, that I em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places
to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for
them ; and I went frequently to the place itself, which
was now grown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thos filled with thoughts of revenge, and a
bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword,
as I may call it, the horror I had at the place,
and at the signals of the barbarous wretches de-
touring one another, abetted my malice. Well,
at length, I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely" wait till I saw
Any of their boats coming: and might then, even be-
fore they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into some thicket of trees, in one of
which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me
entirely; and there I might sit and observe all their
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together as that it would be
next to impossible that 1 should miss my shot, or that
I could fail wounding three or four of them at the first
ihot. In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design;
and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my or-
dinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four of five smaller
bulletsabout the size of pistol bullets; and the fowl-
ing-piece I loaded with near a handful of swanshot of
the largest size: I also loaded my pistols with about
four bullets each; and in this posture, well provided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I
urepaied myself for my expedition.
After I had tbus laid the scheme of my design. and,
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually
ipade my tour every morning up to the top of the
hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about
three miles or more, to see if I could observe anv
Uoats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing
over towards it: but I began to tire of this hard duty,
after I had, tor two or three months, constantly kept
my uatctt, but came always back without any discov-
ery: there having not, in all that time, been the
least appearance not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could'
reach every way.
As long as 1 kept my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also 1 kept up the vigour of my design,.
and mv spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
form for so outrageous' an execution as the killing
twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence which I
had not at all entered into any discussion of in mr
thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural cus-
tom of the people of that country ; who, it seems, had
been suffered by providence, in his wise disposition of
the world, to have no other guide than that of their
nwn abominable and vitiated passions: and, conse-
quently, were left, and perhaps had been so for seme
ages, to act such horrid thins .s, and receive such. dread-
ful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandon-
ed by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degen-
raey, could have run them into: But now, when as I
have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excur-
sion which I had made so long and so far every morning
in vain, so my opinion of-the action itself began to al-
ter; and I began,. with cooler and calmer thoughts, to
consider what I'was going-to engage in ; what author-
ity or call 1 had to pretend to be judge and execu-
tioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven
had thought fit, for so many ages to sutler, unpunish-
ed, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners
of his judgments one upon another. How far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I
bad to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they
shed promiscuously upon one another, I debated this
vcry often with myself thns-: How do I know what
God himself judges in this particular case? It is cer-
tain these people do not commit this as a crime; it is
not against their own consciences reproving, or their
Sght reproaching them; they ilo not know h to be an.
TOI» i. H 8
-offence, and then commit it in defiance of divine jiw-
<tice, as we iloin almost all the sins we commit. "Miry
think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war,
than we do to kill an iix; nor to eat huiuau flesh,
•than we•do•to oat mutton.
\Vhen 1 considered this a little, it followed -neces-
'sarily that il was certainly in, the wrong in it; that
these people were nftt mwderers in the sense that-I
-iiad before condemned-them in my thoughts, any
more than those Christians wemmurderers whooften
gmt to death the prisoners txfcen-in battle; or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troolis
of men to lhe sword, without giving tpmter, though
4hey threw down their arms, and submitted, in the
next place it occurred to me, that although tiie usa«e
'ttiey gave one another was tbus brutish and inl;LteieM,
yet it w«3 tvally nothing to me; these Iieople 4iaJ
-<kine me HO injury: that if they attempted me, or I
saw it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to
fall U)«;B them, somethi: night be said tor it; but
that I wire yet out of their power, and they really had
tioknowlsdgyof me, and consequently no design up-
on me; ami "therefore it could not he just for me to
ftdl niion them : that this would justify the conduct of
'the Spaniards in id! their barbarities practiced in A-
3nerien, where they destroyed millions of these peo-
ple: who, however they were idolaters am! b^rhari-
;ans, and had sevend bloody and barbarous rites in
:their customs, such as sacrificing buman bodies to their
idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, >ery innocent
people; and that the rooting them out of the country
is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detesta-
tion by even the Spaniards themselves st this time,
and by all other Christian nations in Kurope,ass
mere butchery, a bloudy and unnatural piece of cru-
elty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and for
which the very name of a Spaniard is tfckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity iw of
Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were
particularly eminent for the produce of a race of meuf
who were without principles of tenderness, or tiie
r
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reck-
oned to be A mark of generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of a full stop; and I began by little and lit-
tle to be offmy design, and to conclude I had taken
wrong measures in my resolution to attack the sava-
ges; and that it was not my business to meddle witlv
them, unless they first attacked me; and this it was
ray business, if possible, to prevent; but that'll I wrre
discovered and attached by them, 3U knew my duty.
On the other band, 1 argued with myself, that this re-
ally was thewuy nottodeliver myselt', bufentirely tii-
ruin and destroy myself y for unless 1 \vtts sure to kill
every one that not only should be on the shore at that
time, but that should ever come on shore afterward*,
if but one of them escaped to tell their country peo-
ple what had happened, they would come over again
by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows,
and I should on'.y bring upon imseli a certain dt o-
truetion, which, at present, I bad no mair.er o! occa-
sion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that ncithet'
in principle nor in polwy I-ought, one way or other
to concern myself in this- aili.iy: that my business waa
by all possible means, to conceul'myseif IVom them,
and not to leave the least signal to. them to gtu-ss l.-r
that there were any living creatures upon the island,
I mean of buman shape. Religion joined in with thir
prudential resolution; and I w.is convinced now, ma-
ny ways, tbut I was perfectly out of my duty when I
was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction.
of innocent creatures, 1 mean innocent as to me. As
to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another^
I bad-nothing to do with them; ther were national,
and I ought to leave them to the justice of (iod, who
is the governor of nations, and knows how, hy natiot:-
fil punishments, to make a just retribution tor nation-
al offences, and to bring public judgments upon thosu
who offend in a public manner, by such ways as bi-i.c
|ilease him. This appeared so clear to me now, tin v
nothing w.is a great"r satisfaction to me than that lv
btkl not been su&red to Uo a thing which I n!ra su i
si much reason to believe would have heen no lessa
sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it;
and I gave most bumble thanks on my knees to God,
that had tbus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; be-
seeching him to grant me the protection of his provi-
dence, that I might not fall into the hands of the bar-
barians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless 1. had a more clear call from Heaven to do it,
in defence of my own life.
In this disposition 1 continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in nil that time I
never once went np the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any
jofthem had been on shore there or not, that I might
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances a-
gainst lhem, or be provoked, by any ad vantage that
might present itself, to fall upon them: only this I
diii, I went and removed my boat, which -I had on the
other side of the island, and carried it down to the east
«nd of the whole island, where I ran it into a little
cove, which I found under some high rocks, and whore
I know, by reason of the-currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not come with their boats upon any
account whatever. With my boat I carried away ev-
ery thing that I had left there belonging to her,
though not necessary for the hare going thither, vix.
a mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing
'Hike an anchor, but which indeed could not be called
either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the best
1 could make of its kind: all these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery,
or any appearance of any boat, or of any human hab-
itation upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself.
- as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom went
from my cell, alher than upon my constant employ-
ment, viz. to milk my she goats, and manage my ltt-
tle flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was quite out of danger; for
certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes
his island, never came wjth any thoughts of.
ftnding any thinp here, and consequently never wan-
dered off from the coast; and'I doubt not but they
might have been several times on shore after my ap-
prehensions-of them had made me cautious, as well
as before. 'Indeed I looked back wilh some horror
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been if I had chopped upon them and been discovered
b'efore that, when, naked and unarmed, except with
one gun, and that loaded often with small shot, I
walked every where, peeping and peering about the
island to see what I could get; what a surprise shonhI
I have been in, if, when I discovered ihe print of a
man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or
twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and by
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my es-
caping them! The thoughts of this some'times sunk
my very soul within me, and distressed my mind so
much that 1 could not soon recover it, to think what
I should have done, and how I should not only have
been unable to resist them, but even should not have
had presence of mind enough to do what I might have
done; much less what now, after so much considera-
tion and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed,
after serious thinking of these things, I would be tery
melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great
while; but I resolved it all, at last, into thankfulness
to that Providence which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and bad kept from me those
mischiefs which I could have no way been the agent
in delivering myself from, because I had not the least
notion of any such thing depending, or the least sup-
position of its being possible. This renewed a con-
templation which had often come to my thoughts in
former time, when first I began to see the merciful
dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through
in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when
we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quan-
dary (as we call tt), a doubt or hesitation whether, to
go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us
this way, when we intended to go that way: nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps hu*i-
nesa. has called to go the other way, yet a strange iiH-
preesion upon the mind, from we know not whwt
springs, and by we know not what power, shall over-
pule us to go lhls way ; and it shall afterwards appear,
that had we hnve gone that way whieh we should hdve
gone, and even to our imagination ought tn buveguae,
we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these,
and many like reflections, I afterwards made it A cer-
tain rule with me, that whenever 1 ftmndthose secret
hints or pressings of mind, to doing or not doing any
thing that presented, or going this way or that way,
I never failed to obey the secret dictate; though I
knew no other reason for it than that such a pressure,
or such a hint, bung upon my mind. I could give
many examples of the success of this conduct in the
course of my life, but more especially In the latter
part of mv inhabiting this unhappy island; besides
many occasions which it is very likely I might have
taken notice of, if I had seen with the stunt: eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too Inte to be
wise; and I run not but advise all considering men,
whose lives a:e attended with such extraordinary in-
cidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary,
nut to slight such secret intimations of Providence,
let them come from what invisible intelligence they
will. That I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot
account for; but certainly they are a proof of the
converse of spirits, and a secret communication be-
tween IJIUHC embodied and tltose unembodied, and
such a proof as can never be withstood; of which I
shall have occasion to give some very remarkable in-
stances in the remainder of my solitary residence iu
this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess thatthese anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me,
put an end to all invention, and ta !dl the contrivan-
ces that 1 had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences I had the care of my safety more now
upon my hands than that of my food. "1 cared nit
to drive a ugil, or chop a stick of wood now, for fe»
tlie noise I might make should be heard: ranch less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason : and, above
»!l, I was intolerably uneasy at making any flre, lest
tfic smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the
<hiy., should betray me. For this reason I removed
s!mt jtwt of my business which required fire, such us
hmtting of pots and pipes, #e. into my new apartment
in the woods; where, after I had been some time, I
found to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural
cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and
where, I risre say, no savage, hiu) he Iwen at the
mouth of it, would he so hardy as to venture in ; nor,
indeed, would nm man else, but one who like me
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I would sav, If I
tlid not see abundant reason to ascribe all such tiiings
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
Ixiioehes o!' trcvs to make charcoal: and before I go
on 1 must observe the reason of my making this char-
coal, which was tbus: I was afraid of making a smoke
about my habitation, as I said before ; and yet I could
IK* live there without baking my bread, cooking my
meat, c^e.-, so I contrived to'burn some wood here, as
I had seen done in Kngiand, under turf, till it became
c'hiu'k, or dry coal : and then putting the fire out, I
ls-escrved the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services for which fire .was wanting, without
danger -of smoke. Out this is by Die by:—While I
was itutting down some wood here, I perceived that
behind H Tory thick branch of low brushwood or un-
derwood, there was a kind of hollow place : I was
curious to took in it, and getting with difficulty into
the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that is to
say, sufficient for me to stand upright in, and perhaps
another with me: but I must confess to you that I
made more haste out than I did in, when, looking
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark,
I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, wheth-
er devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two
stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. However, af-
ter some pause I recovered myself, and began to call
myself a thousand fools, and to think that he that was
afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years
in an island all alone; and that I might well think there
was notlting in this cave that was more frightful than
mvself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took
u;i a firebrand, and in 1 rushed again, with the stick
flaming in my band: Ihad not gone three steps in,
but 1 was almost as much frightened as I was before;
for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in
some pain, and it was followed by a broken noisr, as
of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again.
I stepped back; and was indeed struck with such sur-
prise that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had
had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it that
my hair might not have lifted it off. But still pluck-
ing up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging
myself a little with considering that the power and
presence of God was every where, and was able to
protect me, upon this ! stepped forward again, and
by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little o-
VIT my head, I saw lying on the ground a most mon-
strous, frightful, old he goat, just making his will, as
we say, and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could
get him put, and he essayed to get up, but was not a-
ble to raise himself; and I thought with myself he
might even lie there; for if he had frightened me, »
he would certainly fright any of the savages, if any
one of them should be so hardy as to- come in there
while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but very
(mall, that is to say, it might be about twelve feet fl-
yer, but in no manner of shape, neither round nor
square, no hands having ever been employed in mak»
ing it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that
there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in further, but 'was so slow that it required me to
ceeep upon my hands and knees to go into it. aid
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I
gave it over for that time ; but resolved to come again
the next thiy. provided with candles and & tinder-box,
which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wdd fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the nextd-iy I came provided with sir
large candles of my own making (for I made very
good candles now of goats' tallow, but was hard set for
candle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-) ::> n, and
sometimes the dried rind of a weed hke nettles); and
going into this low place, 1 was obliged to creep upon
tdl fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, con-
sidering that I knew not how far it might go, nor what
was beyond it. When I had got through the strait, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the
island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides
and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected an
hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles.
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any-
other precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppos-
ed it to be, I knew not. The place I was in was a
most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was
dry and level, and had a sort of a small loose gravel
upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous
creature to be seen, neither was there any damp or
wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it w:is
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
that was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to
bring some of these things which I was most an\ions
about to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring
hither m\ imagazine of powder. and all my spare arras,
viz. two Ibwling-pieces, for I had three in all, and
three muskets, for of them I had eight in nit: so
I kept in my castle only five, which stood ready
mounted,like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence;
and were ready also to take out upon any expediv
tion. Upon this occasion of removing my ammuni-
tion, I happened to open the barrel of powder, which
I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet;
and I found that the water had penetrated about three
or four inches into the powder on every side, which,
caking, and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like a kernel in the shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask: this was'a veiy agreeable discovery to me at
that time ; so I carried all away thither, never keep-
ing above two or three pounds of powder with me in
my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind: I also
carried thither all the lead 1 had left for bullets.
1 fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at theni; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, that if five hondred savages
were to bunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat," whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this disco-
very : and I found it much easier to dig a grent hole
tlwjre, and throw him in and cover him with earth,
than to drag him out: so linterred him there, to
prevent offence to my nose,
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence
in this island; and was so naturalized to the place,
and the manner of living, that could I have but en-
joyed the certainty that Mo savages would come to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to
have capitulated for spending the rest of my time
there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me
down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had
also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time p.iss a great deal more pleas-
antly with me than it did before: as, il.-st, I had
taught mv Pol, as I noted before, to speak; and he
dtd it so familiarly, and talked so articulately, and
plain, mat it was very pleasant to me; for 1 believe
J»i bird ever spoke plainer; and he lived with me no
'ess than six and twenty years: how lung he might
have lived afterwards I know not, though I knew they
have a notion in the Brazils that they live a bundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving com-
panion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that 1 was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devouring me and all I had: but, at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision
with me, they all run wild into the woods, except two
or three favourites, which I kept tame-, and whose
young, when they had any, I always drowned; and
these were part of my family. Hesides these, I al-
ways kept two or three household kids about me,
whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had
two more parrots which talked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like the first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them
that I had done with him. I had also several tame
seafowls, whose names 1 knew not, that I caught up-
on the shore, and cut their wings ; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall being now
grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived
among these low trees, and bred there, which was
very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I be-
gan to be very well contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be a-
miss for all people who shall meet with my story, to
make this observation from it, viz. How frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we
seek most to sbun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreaiHul to us, is oftentimes the very means
or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be
raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I
could give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable than in the circumstance* of my
last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I ssi.l
in my twenty-third year: and this, bung the southern
solstiee (for winter I cannot call it), was the particu-
lar time of mj harvest, and required my being pretty
much abroad in thc fields : when going out pretty ear-
ly in the morning, even before it was thorough day-
light, I was surprised with seeing the lipht of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about
two miles, towards the end of the island where I had
observed some savages hbd been, as before, nnd not
on the other side; but, to my great aiHittiou, it was
on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my ;^rove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised, and yet I bud no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if
these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works of im-
provements, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place,and would then never
give over till they had found me out. In this extrem-
ity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as
wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in I
posture of defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I call-
ed them, that is to say, my muskets, which were'
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pis-
tols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp:
not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the di-
vine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to de-
liver me out of the bauds of the barbarians. I con-
tinued in this posture about two hours; and began to
be mighty impatient for intetligence abroad. for 1 had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and
musing what I should do in this case, I was notable
to hear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting up
my Iiulder to the side of the hill, where there was a
flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the
ladder after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the lull; and pulling out my perspective-glass,
Tvhieh I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on
my belly on the ground, and began to look for the
place. I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had
made, nol to warm them, for they had no need of
I hat, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I sup-
posed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of buman
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether a-
live or dead, I could not tell
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me
too; but when I considered their coming must be al-
ways with the current of the ebb, 1 began, afterwards,
to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I
might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide
ef flood, if they were not on shore before : and having
made this observation, I went about my harvest work
witK the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it), away. I should have
observed, that for an hour or more before they went
off, they went a dancing; and 1 could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glass. I could not
perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering upon
them; but whether they were men or women, I
could iiiit distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my
girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a
scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make,
went away to the hill where I had discovered the
first appearance of all; and as soon as I got thither,
which was not in less than two hours (for 1 could not
go apace, being so loaded with arms *s I was), I per-
ceived there had been three canoes more of the sav-
ages at that place; and looking out further, I sar
they wen- all at sea together, making over for Uie
main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially
as, goii.gdown to the shore, I could see the marks of
hori-or which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, mid part
of the flesh, of buman bodies, eaten and devoured by
those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so
filled with indignation at the si;;ht, that I now began
to premeditate the destruction of the next that I sa\r
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It
seemed evident to me that the visits which they maiie
tbus to this island were not very frequent, for it wis
above fifteen months before any more of them cane
on shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw them,
nor any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time;
for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to
come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while I
lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant appre-
hensions of their coming upon me by surprise: from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
ring a
mour, and took op most of my hours, which should
have been better employed, in contriving how to cir-
cumvent and fall upon them, the very next time I
should see them ; especially if they should be divided,
as they were the last time, into two parties: uor did
I consider at all, that if I killed one party, suppuse
ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or
month, to kill another, and so another, even adatfin-
itum, till I should be at length no less a murderer
than they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps
raueh more so. I spent my days HOW in great per-
plexity andanxiety of mind, expecting that I should,one
day orother, fallinto the hands oflhese mercilesscrea-
tures; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking round me with the greatest care and
caution imaginable. And now I found, to my great com-
fort, how happy it was that I had provided. a time
flock or herd of gnats; for I durst not upon any ac-
count fire my gun, especially near that side of the
island where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I
v. as sure to have them come again, with perhaps two
or three bundred canoes with them, in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However, 1 wore
out a year and three months more before I ever saw
any more of I he: savages, and then I found them again,
as I shall soon observe. It is true, they might have
been there once or twice, but either they made no
stay, or at least I did not see them: but in tin- month
of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four
and twentieth yexr, 1 had a very strange encounter
with them; of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind,during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night:. in the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind: and in the night I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the rea-
sons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to wave
all this fora while.—It was the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden cal-
endar would reckon, for I marked all upon the post
still; I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew
a very great stnrm of wind all day, with a great deal
of lightning and tbunder, and a very foul night it was
after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion
of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up.
with very serious thoughts ahout my present condi-
tion, 1 wns surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a sur-
prise quite of a different nature from any I had met
with before; for the notions this. put into my thoughts
were quite of another kind. I started up in the great-
est haste imaginable, and, in a triiie, clapped my lad-
der to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it af-
ter me; and mounting it the second time, got to the
top of the hill the very moment Uiat a flash of fire
bid me listen for a second gun, which accordingly, in
about half a minute, 1 heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where 1
was driven down the current in my boat. I immedi-
ately considered that this must be some ship in dis-
tress, and that they had some comrade, or some oth-
er ship in company, and fired these for signals of dis-
tress, and to obtain help. 1 had the presence of
mind, at that minute, to think, that though 1 could
not help them, it might be they might help me: so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand,
and making a good handsome pile, 1 set it on fire up-
on the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely;
and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burned
f:iirly out, so that I was certain, if there was anv such
thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire b'azed up I
heard another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night Ion",
till daybreak; and when it was broad day, and the
air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at
sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a bull I
could not distinguish, no, not with my glass; the dis-
tance was so great, and the weather still something
hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
1 looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move : so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchdr; and beingeager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand,
and ran towards the south side of the island, to the
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with
the current: and getting up there, the weather by
this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to
roy great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which 1 found
whcn I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they
checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream,oreddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in, in all my life. Tbus, what
is one man's safety is another man's destruction: for
ft seems these men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being -wholly under
water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E. N. Ei Had they seen the
island, as 1 must necessarily suppose they did not,
Ihey must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have
saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
Iint their firingoff guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts: first, 1 imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and
endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea
gomg very high, they might have been cast away:
Dther times 1 imagined that they might have lost their
Itoat before, as might he the case many ways ; as, par-
ticularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their shiji,
which many times obliged men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it over-
board with their own hands: other times I imagined
they had some ether ship or ships in company, who,
upon the signals of distress they had made, had taken
them up and carried them off: other times I fancied
they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being
horried away by the current that I had been former-
ly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where
there was nothing but misery and perishing; and
that, perhaps, they might by this time think of starr-
ing, and of being in a condition to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God,
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me
in my desolate condition; and that ot'two ships' com-
panies, who were now cast away upon this part of the
world, not one life should lie spared but mine. I
learned here again to observe, that it is very rare that
the providence of God casts us into nny condition of
life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see
something or other to be thankful for, and may see
•others in worse circumstances than our own. Such
VOL. v J
certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of them were
saved; nothing could make it rational so much as to
wish or expect that they did not all perish there, ex-
cept the possibility only of their being taken up by
another ship in company : and this was but mere pos-
sibility indeed; for I saw not the least sign or appear-
anoe of any such thing. I cannot explain, by any pos-
sible energy of words, what a strange longing, or han-
kering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight,
breaking out sometimes thos: "O that there had
been but one or two, nay, or but one soul saved out
of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but
have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
i{K>ken to me, and to have conversed with !" In all
the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire after the society of my fellow-crea-
tures, or so deep a regret to the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the af-
fections, which, when they are set agoing by some
flbject in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination, that
motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, to
such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the
absence of it is insupportable. Such were these ear-
nest wishings that but one man had been saved. I
believe I repeated the words, " O that it had been but
one!" a thousand times j and my desires were so
moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands
would clinch together, and my fingers would press
the palms of my hands, so that if I had had any soft
dung in my hand, it would have crushed it involunta-
rily; and the teeth in my head would strike together,
and set against one another BO strong, that for some
time I could not part them again. Let the natural-
ists explain these things, and the reason and manner
of them: all I can say to them is, to describe the fact,
which was even surprising to me, when I found it,
though I knew not from whence it proceeded: it
was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
"fleas formedin my mind, realizing the comfort which
the conversation of one of my fellow-ehristinns would
have been to me.—But it was not to be; either their
fate or mine, or both, forbade it: for, till the last year
of my being on this island, I never knew >thethe»
any were saved out of the ship or no; and had only
the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes
on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to di*
rect me so much as to guess what nation he was of;
he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eigUl
and a tobacco-pipe;—the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
oat in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I
might find something on hoard that might be useful
to me: but that did not altogether press me so much
as the possibility that there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the
last degree; and this thought clung so to my heart
that I could not be quiet night or day, but I must ven-
ture out in my boat on board this wreck; and com-
mitting the rest to God's providence, I thought the
impression was ao strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted, that it must come from some invisi-
ble direction, and that I should be wanting to myself
it" I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened,
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my voy-
age, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh wa*
ter, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had
still a great deal of that left,) and a basket of raisins i
and thos, loading myself with every thing necessary,
I went down to my boat, got the water out of her,
put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then
went home again for more. My second cargo was
a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my
head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water,
aud about tiro dozen of small loaves, or barley eukus
more than before, with a bottle of goats milk and a
cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I
carried to my boat; and praying tn Cod to direct my
voyage, I put out; and rowing, or paddling, the ca-
noe along the shore, came at last to the utmost point
of the island on the north-east side. And now I was
to launch flut into the ocean, and either to venture or
not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which
ran constantly on bothsides of the island at adistance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard 1 had been in before, and
my heart began to fail me 5 for I foresaw that if I was
driven into either of those currents, I should be car-
ried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out of my
reach, or sight of the island again: and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should
rise, I should he inevitably lost
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I be-
gan to give over my enterprise; and having hauled
my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and set me down upon a rising bit of ground, ve-
ry pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, a-
bout my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could per-
ceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on; upon which my going was impracticable for so
many hours. Upon this, presently it occurred to me.
that 1 should go up to the highest piece of ground I
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that I
might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I
might not expect to be driven another way home,
with the same rapidness of the currents. This iho't
was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye ajton a
little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the cur-
rents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to
.guide myself in my return. Here 1 found, that w
the current of ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north side of the island in BIT
*eturn, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under
the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out.
1 first made a little out to sea, full north, till I began
to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward,
and which carried me at a great rate; and yet did
not so burry me us the current on the south side had
done before, so as to take from me all government
ofthebosit; but having a strong steerage with mv
paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a.
dismal sight to•took at: the ship which by the build-
ing, was Spanish, stuck fast, Jammed'in between two
rocks; all the stern and quarter of her were beaten
to pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle, which
struck in the rocks, had run on w'th great violence, her
mainmast and foremast were brought by the board,
that is to say, broken short off; but her bowsprit was
sound, and the head aml bow appeared firm. VVhetv
I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who>
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as
I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me; I
took him into the boat but found him almost dead
with bunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that
had been starving a fortnight in the snow: I then
gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which,
if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this, I went on board; but the first sight I met
with was tw-o men drowned in the cook-room or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast ahout one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
brqkc so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if
they had been under water. Besides the dog, there
was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I coidd see, but what were spoiled by the
water. There were some casks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower ia Uw
hold, and which, the water being ebbed oaf, I conW
see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of
the seamen: and I got two of them mto the boat,
without examining what was in Ihum. Had the stern
of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off,
I am persuaded I might have made a good voyaget
for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room
to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board; and, if I may guess from the course she steered,
she mnst have been hound from Buenos Ayres, or
the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America,
beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt,
a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to
any body; and what became of her crew, I then
knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several mus-
kets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with a-
bout four ponnds of powder in it; as for the muskets,
I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took
the powder-horn. I took a fireshovel and tongs, which
I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron i and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again; and the same eve-
ning, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I re-
posed that night in the boat'! and in the morning I
resolved to harbour what 1 had got in my new cave,
and not carry it home to my castle. After refresh-
ing myself, 1 got all my cargo on shore, and began
to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor 1
found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had
at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good; but
when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me; for example, I found in one
a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the
salt water had not burt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. I found some
very good shirts, which were very welcome to me;
and about a dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths; the formerwere alsn
very welcome, heing exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to
the till in the chest, 1 found there three great bags of
pieces-of-eight, which held about eleven hondred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a
paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near
a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but
of little value; but, by the circumstances, it must
have belonged to the gunner's mate; though there
was no powder jn it; except two pounds of fine glaz-
ed powder in three small flasks, kept I suppose for
charging their fowling pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any
use to me: for, as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my
feet; and I would have given it all for three or four
pair of English shoes and stockings, which were tilings
I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many
rears. .1 had indeed got two pair of shoes now, which
1 took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I
saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but
they were not like our English shoes, either for ease
or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pie-
ces-of-eight in rials but no gold: I suppose this belong-
ed to a poorer man than the other, which seemed Io
belong to some officer. Well, however, I lugged this
money home to IDT cave, and laiditup, as I bud done
dint before which I brought from oar own ship; but
it was a great pity, as I said, that the other part of
this ship had not come to my share; for I am satisfi-
ed I might have loaded my canoe several times ons
with money; and thought f, if ever I escape to Eng-
land, it might lie here safe enough till I may come
again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way to
my old habitation, where I found every thing safe
and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after
my old fashion, and lake care of my family affairs;
and for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was
more vigilant than I used to be, looked o;itoftener,
and did not go abroad so much; and if at any lime 1
did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east
partof the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the
vitvages never came, and where I could go without
10 many precautions, and such a load of arms and
ammunition as I always carried with me if 1 went the
other way. I lived in this condition near two years
more; but my unlucky head, that was always to lit
me know it was born tn make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and de-
signs, how, if it were possible, I m-gluget away from
this island: for, sometimes I was fur making another
vo)age to the wreck, though my reason told me that
there was nothing left there worth the hazard of
my voyage; sometimes fur a ramble one way, some-
times another; and I helicve verily, if I had had thc
!io;tt that I went from Sallee in, I should have ven-
ture:! to sen, bound any where, I knew not whithee
1 have, been, in all my circumstances, a memento to
thos? who are touched with the general plaguea;'
mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half of their
miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied wilii
the station wherein God and nature hath placed them:
for, not to look buck upon my primitive condition,
ami the excellent advice of my father, the opposition
ti which was, as I may call it, my original SIM, mv
aidist-qiu-nt mistakes of the same kind had ht-t•n the
•"cans gf my coming into this miserable condition;
fbr had that-Providence, which so- happily seated me
at the Brazils as a-planter, blessed me with confined
desires, and I'couid have been contented to have got*
on gradually, I might have been by this time, I mean
in the time of my being in this island, one of tlw
most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, I'ara
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made hi
that httle lime I lived there, and the increase I should
probably have made if I'had remained, I might have
been worth a bundred thousand moidores? and what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well stock-
ed plantation, improving and increasing, to turn su-
per cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock-at hom*;,
that we could have bought them at our own door
from those whose business it was to fetch them ; and.
though-it had eost us something more,yetihe differ-
ence of that price was by no means worth saving at
so great a hazard. But as this-is usuallv the fate of
young heads, so 'reflection upon the folly of it is aa
commonly the exercise of more years, or of the dear
bought experience of time; so itwas with me now; and
yet so deep had the' mistake taken rout in my temper,
that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was
continually poring upon the means and possibility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with Ida
greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remain-
ing part of my story, it may not be improper to gi«e
some account of my first conceptions on the subject
of this foolish scheme for my escape, and how and upcn
what foundation I acted.
I am now to be 'supposed retired into my easrtfe,
after'my late voyage to the wreck; my frigate laidtrp
and secured under water, as usual, and my condition
restored to what it was before; 1 had more wealth,
indeed than I had before, but was not at all the ricji-
er ; for 1 had no more use for it than the Indians of
Fern-had before the Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in Maralt,
the fonr and twentieth year of my first setting footSn
this island of solitude, I waa lying in my bed or hau-.-
i a
mock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, ro
sdistemper, no uneasiness of body, nor sm-y uneasinca
in mind, more than ordinary, but could by no means
sclose my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long, otherwise than as follows:—It is im-
possible to-set down the innumerable crowd of tho'ts
s that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the
brain, the memory, in this night's time: I ran over the
v hole history of my life, in miniature, or by abridg-
ment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island,
and also of that part of my life since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case
since I came on short- on this island, I was comparing
the happy posture of my affairs hi the first years of
my habitation here, compared to the life of anxietj,
fear, and care, which 1 had lived in ever since I had
seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did not
believe the savages had frequented the island even all
the while, and might have been several hondreds of
them at times on shore there; but I had never known
it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it;
my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was
the same, and I was as happy in not knowing my
danger as if I had never really been exposed to it
This furnished my thoughts with many very profita-
ble reflections, and particularly this one: How infi-
nitely good that providence is, which has provided,
in its government of mankind, such narrow bounds
to his sight and knowledge of things; and though he
walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the
sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract
his mind and sink liis spirits, he is kept serene and
^calm, by having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
him.
After these thoughts had for sometime entertained
sme, 1 came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in for so many years in this very island, and
how I had walked about in the greatest security, and
yith al! possible tranquillity, even when perhaps noth-
ing but the brow of-a hill, a great tree, or the casual
approach of" night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the
hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seiz-
ed on me with the same view as 1 would on a goat or
a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime to ki!l
and devour me. than I did of a pigeon or a curlew.
I would unjustly slander myself, if I.should say I was-.
not sincerely thankful to my great preserver, to-
whose singular protection I acknowledged, with
great bumility, all these unknown deliverances were
due, and without which I must inevitably have fallen
into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts -were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of
these wretched creatures. I mean the savages, and
how it came" to pass in the world, that the wise Gov-
ernor of all tilings should give up any of his creatures
to such inbumanity, nay, to something so much he-
low even brutality itst-lf, as to devour its own kind:
but as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless spec-
ulations, il.occurred to me to inquire, what pnrt ot'
the world these wretches lived in? bow far oft' the
const was from whence they cnmc? what they ven-
tured over so far from home for? what kind of boats
they had ? and why 1 might not order myself nnd my
business so, that I might be as aMe to go over thither,
as they were to come to me?
I never so much as troubled myst-lf to consider
what 1 should do with myself when'I went thither;
what would become of me if 1 fell into the hnnda of
ibe sa vagus; or how I should cscnpu them if they at-
tacked me; no, nor so much HS how it was possible
for me to reach the coast, and not be r.Uncked by
some or other of them, without any possibility of i!t--
livur'mg imsetf; and if I should not fall into tlu-ir
hinul?, what I should do for provision, or whither I
should bend my course: none of liu-se thoughts, I
sav, so much as cume in my way; bat my mind \viis
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over iu
my boat to the main land.. I. Inokid upon my pres-
ent cuiJtiiuoiL HE Uie auwUBiacriUile UuUwould possibly
be; that I was not able to throw myself info mvr
thing but death, that could be culled worse; and if!
reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet
with relief, or,I might coast alone, as I did on the
African shore, till I came to some inhabited country,
sod where 1 might find some relief; and after all,
1icrhaps.I might•full in with some Christian ship that
nlight take me in; and if the worst came to the
worst, 1 could but die, Which would•put an end to all
these miseries st. once. I'ray note, all this was the
fruit of a disturbed mind,:an impatient temper, made
desperate as it were, by the•long continuance of mj
troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had been on board of, and where I had beea
so near obtaining what-I so earnestly longed for, viz.
somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
IVom them of the place where \vas, and of the proha.
hle means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my resig-
nation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dis-
positions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended ; and I
had, as it were, no liower to turn my thoughts to any
thing but to the project of a voyage to the main,which
eame upon me with such force, and such an impetu-
osity of desire, that it was not to be.resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my very blond
into a ferment, and my pnlse beat as high RS ifl hud
been in n fever, merely with the extraordinary fer-
vour of my mind about it; nature, as ifl had "been
fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it,
threw me into a sound sleep; one wou'd have thought
I should have dreamed of it; but 'I did not, nor of
any tiiing relating to it; but I dimmed, that as I was
going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages
coming to land, and that they brought with them an-
other savage, whom they were going to kill, in order
to eat him; when on a sudden, the suvage that they
were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life:
.Hien I thought ju.mje sleep,..that.Ueeamerunnuig into
nty little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself: and thailr seeing, htm alone, and not .perceiv-
ing: that tlte others sought him that way, shewed my-
self to him, and,.smilling upon him, encouraged him:
that he kneeled down to me, seeming to prav me to
assist him; upon which I shewed my ladder, made
him go up it, and carried him into my.cave, and he
became my servant; and that as soon as I had got
this man, I said to myself." Now I may certainly
venture to the. main land; for this fellow will serve me
as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
being devoured ; whflt places to venture into, and
what to escape. I waked with this thought, and was
under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disap-
pointments which I felt upon coming to myself, and
fmding it was no more than a dream, were equally
extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession;
and if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had comdemned to be ei'ten, and should
hung hither to kill: but these thoughts still were at-
tended with this difficulty, that it was impossible to
effect this, without attacking a wholecaravan of them,
and killing them all ; and this was not only a very des-
perate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on the
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of
it to myself and my heart trembled at the thoughts of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliv-
erance: I need not repeat the arguments which oc-
curred to me against this, they being the same men-
tioned before: but though I had other reasons to of-
fer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my life,
and would devour me, if they could; that it was self-
preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself
from this death of a life, and was acting in my own
jdcteoce, as much as if they were actually assaulting
me, and the like; I say, though these things argued
for it, yet the thoughts of shedding buman blood for
my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such
as i could by no means reconcile myself to for a great
while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it, (for all
these arguments, one way and another. struggled in
my head a long time,) the eager prevailing desire of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I re-
solved, if possible, to get one of those savages into my
hands, cost what it would: the next thing then was
to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to resolve on: but as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon
the watch to see them when they came on shore, and
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let it be what it would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my-
self upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed"
so often, that I was heartily tired of it; for it was
above a year and a half that I waited; and for great
part of that time went out to the west end, and to the
south west corner of the island almost every day, to
look for canoes, but none appeared. This WHS verv
discouraging and began to trouble me much, though
I cannot say that it did in this case (as it had dona
some time before) wear off the edge of my desire to
the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed,
the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at
first so careful to sbun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be
upon them. Hesides, 1 fancied myself able toman-
age one, nay, two or three savages, if 1 had them, 90
as to make them entirely slaves to me,to do whater-'
er I should direct them, and to prevenx thoir being
able at any time to do me anv burt. It was u great
while that I pleased myselfwith this affair; but noth-
uig still presented; all my fancies and schemes came
to nothing, for no savages came near me foe a great
while.
About a year and a half after I entertained these
notions (and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them into execution), I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who
belonged to them all lauded, and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for
seeing so many, anil knowing that they always came
four or six, or sometimes more in a boat, I could not
tell whatto think of it, or how to take my measures,
to attack twenty or thirty men single handed; so lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted: How-
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an
attack that 1 had formerly provided, and was justrea-
dy for action, if any thing had presented. Having
waited a good while. listening to hear if they made
any noise, allength, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to
the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; stand-
ing. so, however,that myheaddidnotappearabovethe
hilli so thai they could not perceive me by any means.
Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass,
that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dress-
ed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it
was; but they were all dancing, in! know not how
many barbarous gestures apd figures, their own way,
round their fire.
While I was tbus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by,
and were now brought out for the slaughter. I per-
ceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down I suppose with a club or wooden sword, for that
was their way, and two or three others were at work
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery,
while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should he ready for him. In that very mo-
ment, this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liber-
ty, aud unbound, nature inspired him with hopes
of life, and he started away from-them, and'mrr with
incredible swiftness along the sands, directly toward*
me; I mean, towards- that part of the coast whert
my habitation was.. I was dreadfully frightened, I
must acknowledge, when I perceived him run my
way, and especially when, as-1 thought, I-saw him
pursued by the whole body: and now 1 expected that
part of my dream- was coming to pass,-and that he
would certainly take shelter in my grove: but I could
not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it; viz; that the other savages would not pursue
him thither, and find him there. However, 1 kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover when I
found that there was not above three men thatfollow-
ed him ; and stilt more was I encouraged wheu I
found that he outstripped them exceedingly in run-
ning, and gained ground of them; so that if he could
but hokl it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all.'
There was between them and my castle the creek,
whieh I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this
I (saw ptainly he must necessarily swim over, orthe~
poor wretch - would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it,
sthough the tide was-then up; but plunging in, swtitn,
through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, land-
ed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not,
and that standing on the other side he looked at the
-others, but went no farther, and- soon after went soft-
ly back again; which, as it happened, was very well
for him in the end. I' observed that the two who
swam were yet more than twice as long swimming
over the creek, as the fellow was-that fled from them,
It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and in»
deed irresistibly, that now wa»the time to get me m
servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, and
that I was plainlv called by Providence to save this
Poor creature's 'life. I immediately ran down tb*
htffdera with all possible expedition, fetched my two
guns, fur they were both at the foot of I he ladders, as
I observed before, and getting up again with the samu
haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea,
and having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pur-
cued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking
back, was at first perhaps as much frlghteRed at mis
as at them; but I beckoned with my baud to him to
eome back ; and in the mean time I slowly advanc-
ed towards the two that followed; then rushing at
once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece. I was loath to (ire, because I
would not have the rest hear; though, at that dis-
tance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
Wtt of sight of lhe smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make of it. Having knock-
od this fellow down, the other who pursued him stop-
ped, as if he had been frightened, and 1 advanced a
pace to wants him: but as I came nearer, 1 perceived
presently he had :t how and arrow, and wus fitting it
to shnot si me; so I was then necessitated Vo shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, thongb
he saw both his enemies fallen and killed, aa he
thought, yet was so frightened with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither
came forward nor went backward, though he seemed
ruthrr inclined still to fly than to come on. I hat-
is" •' '' 1 again to fiic•., and made signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way;
then ^topped ugaiu, and then a little farther, and stop-
ped again; and I co'dd then perceive that he stood
trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had
just Ixten to b<- killed, as his two enemies were. I
Reckoned to him ag;tm tocome to me, and gave him all
Ui« signs of encouragement that I could think of; and
htr came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment fin•
anving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasant-
ly, tmd beckoned to him to cuam still ucurcr: ac
length he came close to me; and then he kneeleJ
down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head upoa
tke ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot
upon hii head; this it seems was in token of swear-
ing to be ray slave forever. I took him up, and made
much ofhira, and encouraged him all I could. Bui
there was more work to do yet; for I perceived The
ravage whom I knocked down was not killed, btll
tttmued with the blow, and began to come to himselO
to I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, thai
he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to
tne, and though I could no understand them, yetl
thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, raf
OTO excepted, for above twenty-five years. But theie
was no time for such reflections now; the savage
»ho was knocked down recovered himself so far u
to ait up upon the ground, and I perceived that mr
navuge began to be afraid; but when I saw that, 1
presented my other piece at the man, as if I would
shout him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now,
made a motion to me to lend him my sword, which
tang naked in a belt by my side, which 1 did. He
Bo sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and, al
one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no Bxecutionct
in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very strange for one vAo, I had rea-
son to believe, never saw a sword in his life before,
except their own wooden swords: however, it seems,
at I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hanl,
that they will even cut off heads with them, nay, and
erms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph,
and brought me the sword again, and with abundance
of gestures which I did not understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, jus!
before me. But that which astonished him mcwt,
was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off:
ao pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him If
to him f so I bade him go, as well as I could. When
he cami' to him, he stood like one amazed, looking st
him, turning him first on one side, then on the other,
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which, it
seems was just in his breast, where it had made a
hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite deml.
He took up his bow and arrows, and came back | so
J turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me,
making signs to him that more might come after
them. Upon this, he made signs to me that he should
bury them with sand, that they might not be seen
by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs to
hiro again to do so. He fell to work; and in an ii:-
stunt he had scraped a holein thcsand with hishanda,
big enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him i and did so by the other also;
J believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an
hour. Then calling him away, I carried him, not to
my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther
part of the island: so I did not let my dream come
to pass in that part, viz. that he came into my grove
for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to
go and lie down to sleep, showing him a place where
I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which
I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor
creature lay down, and went to sltep.
He was a co-nely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, till
and well shaped; and, as [ reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he bud all the
sweetness and softness of an European in bis counte-
nance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was
long and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead
very high and large; and a great vivacity and spark-
ling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin
was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet nut nn
Ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians axf
Virginians, and other natives of America are, butol"
a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it some-
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to de-
scribe. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like.the Negroes; a very good mouth.
thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and us white ai
ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about
an hour, he awoke again, and came out of the caw
to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I hal
in the enclosure just by: when he espied me, he
came running to me, laying himself down again upon
the ground, with all the possible signs of an homble
thankful disposition, making a great many antic ges-
tures to show it. At last, he lays his head Sut upon
the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other fo«
upon his bead, as he had done before; aud after this.
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, am.
submission, imaginable, to let me know how he wouW
serve me so long as he lived. I understood him ia
many things, and let him know I w&s very well pie*-
1ss! with him. In a little time I began to speak s
him, and teach him to speak to me; and first I Id
him know his name should be KRID&Y, which aa
the day I saved his life: I called him so for the mem-
ory of the time. I likewise taught him to say Mas-
ter; and then let him know that was to be my namt:
I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and tn
know the meaning of them. I gave him some mi k
In an earthen pot, and let him sec me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and gave him a cak;
of bread to do the like, which he quickly eomplinl
with, and made signs that it was very good for hire.
I kept there with him nil that night; but as soon £
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, ami
let him know I would give him some clothes; >t
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark nakrf.
As we went by the place where he had buried the
two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and shot-
«1 mg the marks U.ut Uc hail made to tiud Uictu again,
making signs to me that we should dig them up again,
and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, es-
pressed my abhorrence of it, made asit'I would vomit
at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to
him to come away; which he did immediately, with
cjreat submission. I then led him up to the top of the
jiill, to see it'his enemies were gone; and pulling out
my glass, I looked and saw plainly the place where
they had been, but no appearance of them or their
canoes; so that it was plain they were gone, and had
left their two comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
But I was noicontentwith thisdiscovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curi-
osity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the now and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self; and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to
the place, m\ very hlood ran chill in my veins, and
my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spec-
tacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight. at least it was
so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The
place was covered with hntnan bones, the ground
<lyed with their blood, and grent pieces of flesh left
here and there, half eaten, mangled and scorched;
and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast
they had been making there, after a victory over their
enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and tlwe
bones of three or four-legs and feet, and abundancu
of oiher parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signa,
made me understand that they brought over four
prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were ea-
ten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great battle between
them and their next king,of whose snhjects,it seems,
Tie had been one, and that they h«l taken a great
Tiumber of prisoners ; and which were carried to sen-
seval places by those who had taken them in the figjis,
in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought thither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them together
m a heap, and make a great tire upon it, and burn
them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hanker-
ing stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much ab-
horrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it: for I
had, by some means, let him know that I would kill
him, if he offered it.
When he had done this, v.-c came back to our ca*
tie i and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned,
which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well; and then I nuide
him a jerkin of goat's skin, a* well as my skill would
allow (for I was now grown a tolerable good tailor);
and I gave him a cap which I made of hare's skin,
very convenient, and fashionable enough: and tbus
he was clothed for the present tolerably w ell, and waj
mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkward-
ly in these clothes at first; wearing the drawer* was
aery awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waist-
coat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms)
but a little easing them where he complained they
hurt him, and using himself to them, took to them
at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my but with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfect-
ly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in ths in-
side of the last, and in the outside of the first. As
there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I
made a formal framed door case, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within the
entrance: uul causing the door to open iu (he inside,
11 in nil it np in the night, taking in my Udders Wo;
BO that Friday could no way come at me in the insUie
of my innermost wall, without making so munh noise
lu getting over that it must needs waken me; for my
6rst wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to Ulo
side of the hill; which was again laid a crews with
smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thabihecl
over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was strong, like reede; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
but would have fallen down and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every
night. But I needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere ser-
vant than Friday was to me; without passions, sal-
Ienne», or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged;
bis very affections were tied to me, like those of s
child to a father; and I dare say he would have we'
rificed his life for the saving of mine, upon any occas-
ion whatsoever; the many tutimooies he gave me of
<hts put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me ftt.it
I needed to use no precautions, as to my ssfcty on hii
Account.
1'his frequently gave me occasion to observe, (frit
tluit with wonder, that however it had pleased God;
In his providence, and in the government of the work*
of hia hands, to Uike from so great a part of the world
of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties
rtiid the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that Its
Kivs bestowed upon them the same powers, the same
reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of
Jtintlness and obligation, the same passions and resent*
11ujiils of wrongs, the same seuse of gratitude, sincero
ity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, totl
receiving good, that he has given to us: and that whoa
lie pleases to offer them occasions of exeiting them.*,
they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them tp
t|ie right uses for which they were bestowed, than •s
are. This made me ver}T melancholy snmrtftncs hi
reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how
mean n ust- we make of all these, even though we
have these powers enlightened bv the great lamp of
of instruction, the spirit of God, and by the knowl-
edge of his word added to our understanding; ami
why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowl-
edge from so many millions of souls, who, it I might
judge by this poor savage, would make a much bel-
ter use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade
the sovereignty of Providence; and, us it were, ar»
raign the justice of so arbitrary adisposition of things
that should hide that light from some, and ri--veid it
to others, and yet expect a like duty from both: bull
(hnt it up, and chucked my thoughts with this conclu-
sion: first, that we do not know by what light and
law these should he condemned ; but that as God
WHS necessarilv, and by the nature of his heing infi-
nitely holy and pist, soil could not be, Iwt that if these
creatures were all sentenced to absence from himself,
k was on account of sinning against that light, which,
sis the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by
such rules as their consciences would acknowledge
to be just, though the foundation was not discovered to
us; and,secondly, that still, as we niv all clay in tlw
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him,"Why
hant thou formed me tbus r"
But to return to my new companion: I was greaV
ly delighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him every thing that was proper to make him
useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make
him speak and understand me when 1 spoke; and Its
was the aptest scholar that ever was: and particular*
ly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleas-
ed when he could but understand me, or make me
understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to
talk to him. Now my life began to be easy, that I
btgan to say to myself, that could I but have been
sate from more savages, I cared not if 1 was ueaer to
«enuwe from the place where I livetk
After I had been two or three ilays returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday otf
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the
woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flofk, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I strw n she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of
Friday;—Hold, said I, stand still; and made signs to
him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the saa-
age, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine
how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so amazed that ( thought he would
have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded ; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing ay
knees, said a great many things I did not understand;
but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me
not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up U the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which. I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did: and while he was wondering, and looking to sea
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again,
liy and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though
I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made
him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly, I fired and bade him look, and immedi-
ately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one fright-
ened again, notwithstanding all 1 bad said to hun ; uml
I found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put anything into the gun, but thought that
there must be some wonderful fund of death and de-
struction in that tiling, able to kill man, beast, bird,
or anything near or far off; and the astonishment this
created in him was such as could not wear off for a
long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for
several days, after; but he would speak to it, and
talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned othim, was
to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his astonish-
ment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run
and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but staid
somc time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered away a good distance from the place where
•he fell : however, he found her, took her up, and
brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno-
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do
H, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I
brought home the kid, and the same evening I took
die skin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and
baring a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of tie flesh, and made some very good broth.
After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
Bum, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it veiy
well; but that which was strangest to him was to
see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that
the salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into
his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
•pit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it: on the other hand I took some meat
into my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spis
and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at
the salt; but it would not do; he would never care
for salt with his meat or in his broth ; at least not for
• great while, and then but a very little.
Waving tbus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting
a piece, of 1 he kid: this I did by hanging it before the
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Kng.
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the
fire, and one across on the top, and tying the strmg
to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired very much; but when he came
to taste the flesh, he took su many ways to tell me
how well he liked it, that I could not but understand
him: and at |ast he told me, as well as he could, he
would never eat man's flesh any more, which I wae
very glad to hear.
The next day, I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, us
1 observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I, especially utter he had seen what
the meaning ofit was, and that it was to make bread
of; for after that 1 let him see me make my bread,
and bake it too; and in a little time Friday was ablo
to do all the work for me, as well as 1 could do it
myself.
"l began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity ofcorn
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as be-
fore, in which Friday worked not only very willingly
and very hard, but did it very cheerfully : and 1 told
him what it was for; that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too. He ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and let me know
that he thought I had much more labour upon me on
his account, than I had for myself; and that he would
work the harder forme, if I would tell himwhattodo.
This was the pleasantest year of all the lifel led in
this place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstand the names of almost every thing I had occa-
sion to call for, and of every place I had to send him
to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I
began now to have some use for my tongue again,
which, indeed, I hart very little occasion for before,
that is to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure oj
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fel-
low himself: his simple unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I began really
to love the creature: and, on his side, I believe hi
loved me more than it was possible for him ever to
love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
taught him English so well that he could answer me
almost any question, I asked him whether the natioa
that he belonged to never conquered in battie? Al
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always fighl
the better:" that is, he meant, always get the better
in fight: and so we began the following discourse:
Master. You always fight the better; how came
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for all that
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them-,
how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation, in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was; there my nation fake one, two
great thousand.
Master. Hut why did not your side recover jon
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and,
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe thai
tune.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all o>
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come otttei
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them .'
Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to the N.
\V. side ot'the island, which,itseems,wastheirside).
By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on
shore on the farther part ot'the island, on the same
man-eating occasions he was now brought for; and,
some time after, when I took the courage to carrv
liim to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
lie presently knew the place, and told me he was
there once, when they eat up twenty men, two wo-
men, and one child: he could not tell twenty in Eng-
lish, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that after a little way out to sea. there was a current
und wind, always one way in the morning, the other
in the afternoon. This 1 understood to be no more
than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
Imt I afterwards understood it was occasioned bv the
p-eat draft and reflux of the mighty river Oioonoko,
in the mouth or gulf of which river, as 1 found after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which t per-
ceived to the \V. and N. W. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
J asked Friday a thousand questions about ihe coun-
try, the inhabitants. the sea, the coast, and what na-
tinns were near: he told me all he knew, with the
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the
names of the several nations of his sort cf people, but
•souhl get no other name than Caribs : from whence
I easily understood, that these were the Caribbees,
which our maps place on lhe part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to
Guiana, and onwards to St Martha. He told me
that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, be-
yond the setting of the moon, which must be west
i'rom their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which 1
mentioned before; and that they had killed much
mans, that was his word; by all which I understood
he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over the whole country, and were
remembered by all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from
this island and get among those white men ? he tohl
me, Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe. I could not
understand what he meant, or make him describe to
me what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with
great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a
large boat, as big as two canoes. This part of Fri-
day's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this place, and that this poor savage
might be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked
him one time, Who made him? The poor creature
did not understand meat all, but thought I had asked
him who was bis father: but I took it up by another
handle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground
we walked on, and the hills and woods! He told me,
it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all;
he could describe nothing of this great person, but
that he was very old, much older, he said, than the
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked
him then, if this old person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, AH
things say O to him. I asked him if the people who
die in this country went away any where? He said,
Yes i they all went to Benamuckee : then tasked
him whether these they cat up went thither too?
lie said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up to-
wards heaven; that he governed the world by ths
same power and providence by which he made it;
that he was omnipotent, and could do every thing for
us, give every thing to us, take every thing from us;
and tbus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened
with great attention, and received with pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of
the manner of making our prayers to God, and his
being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told m«
one day, that if our God could hear us up beyond the
sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Be-
namuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet
could not hear till they went up to the great moun-
tains where he dwelt to speak to him. 1 asked him
if ever he went thither to speak to him? He said,
No; they never went that were young men; non«
went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee ; that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say
O (so he called saying prayers), and then came back,
and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I ob-
served, that there is priestcraft even among the most
blinded ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy
of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all re-
ligions in the world, even among the most brutish and
barbarous savages.
1 endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and tohl him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say O to their god
Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any oYM
there, it must be wilh an evil spirit: and then I en-
tered into a long discourse with him about the devil,
the original of him, his rebellion against God, his en-
mity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up
in the dark parts of the world to he worshiped instead
of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to their ruin ; how he had
a secret access to our passions and to our affections,
and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to
cause us even to be our own tempters, and run upon
our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil as it was about the being
of a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evi-
dence to him even the necessity of a great First
Cause, and overruling, governing Power, a secret
directing Providence, and of the equity and justice of
paying homage to him that made us, and the like;
out there appeared nothing of this Rind in the notion
of an evil spirit; of his original, his being, his nature,
and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to
draw us in to do so too: and the poor creature pnz-
eled me once in such a manner, by a question merely
natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say
to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of
the power of God, his omnipotence, his aversion to
rin, bis being a consuming fire to the workers of ini-
quity; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy
us and all the world in a moment; and he listened!
with great seriousness to me all the while. After
Ibis, I had been telling him how the devil was God's
enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence,
and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world. and
the like. "Well," says Friday, " but you say God
is so strong, so great; is he not much strong, much
might as the devil ?—" Yes, yes," says I, "Friday,
God is stronger than the devil : God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him
down under our feet, and enable us to resist hit temp-
tutions, and quench his fiery darts.''—"But," savs
he again, " if God much stronger, much might as the
devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no
more do wicked?" I was strangely surprised at this
question; and after all, though I was now an oid man,
yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a
casuist, «s a solver ol difficulties; and at filtt I could
not tell what to say; so I pretended not to hear him,
and asked him wht.t he said; but he was too earnest
for an answer, to forget his question, so that he re-
7'eated it in the very same broken words as above.
1lv this time I had recovered myself a little, and I
said, " God will at last punish him severely; he is re-
served for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire.'' Tha
did not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me, re-
peating mv words, " Reserve at last / me no under-
stand: but why not kill the devil now; not kill great
ago.'"—"Yon may as well ask me," said I, " why
God does not kill you and mi', when we do wickeil
things here that offend him: we are preserved fti
repent and be pardoned." He mused some time on
this: "Well, well,"says he, mighty affectionatelj,
"that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all present,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run doTPn
again by him to the last degree; and it was a testi-
mony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though
thev will guide reasonable creatures to the know^
edge of a God, and of a worship or homage due flo
the supreme being of God, as the consequence of onr
nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can form
the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption
purchased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant,
and of an intercessor at the footstool of God's throne^
I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can form
these in the soul; and that therefore, the gospel of
GUI' Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the \Voiil
of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the guid*
and sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely neces-
sary instructors of the souls of men in the saving
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sud-
den occasion of going out: then sending him frir
something a good way off, I seriously prayed to God
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor
savage; assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor
ignorant creature to receive the light of the kuoal-
YOL.I. K2
edgeofGou in Christ, reconciling him to himself
•and would guide me to speak so to him from llm
Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
.Ilia eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came
again to me, I entered into a long discourse with him
upon the subject of the redemption of man by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the go*
pel preached from heavan, viz. of repentance towards
God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesns. I then ei-
plamedto him as well as I could, .why our blessed
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, bat
die seed of Abraham; and how, for that reason, the
fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that
he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and the like.
I had, God knows, more,sincerity than knowledge
In all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in
laying things open to him, I really informed and in-
structed myselt in many things that either I did not
know,,or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into
them, for the information of this poor savage; and I
had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, wheth-
er this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no,
1 had great reason to be thankful that ever he came
to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure : and when
I reflected that in this solitary life which I had beea
confined to, I had not only been moved to look up ID
heaven myself, and to seek to the hand that had
brought me here, but was now to be made an instru-
ment, under Providence, to save the life, and, for
aught I knew, the soul of a prior -savage, and bring
him to the true• knowledge of religion, and ofth*
Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesuit
in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran through every part
ot my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I wss
Ijronghtto this place, which I had so often thought the
most dreadful of all uftlictions that could possibly have
befallen me. -e
I continued in this thankful frame all the remain-
der of my time; and the conversation which employ-
ed the hours between Friday and me was such as
made the three years which we lived there together
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing aa
complete happiness can be formed in a subhL^ry
state. This savage was now a good Christian, a
much belter than I ; though I have reason to hope,
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted, restored penitents. We had here
the word of God to read,-and no farther off from his
Spirit to instruct, than if we had been ui England.
I always applied myself, in reading the Scriptures, to
let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what
1 read ; and he again, by his serious inquiries
und questionings, made me, as I said before, a much
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I
should ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I cannot refrain from observing
here also, from experience in this retired part of mv
life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is
that the knowledge of God,and of the doctrine of sal-
vation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that, as the bare reading the Scripture imide me ca-
pable of understanding enough of n.iy duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of sincere repen-
tance tor my sins, and hiving hold of a Saviour for lif*
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and
obedience to nil God's commymls, and this without
any teacher or instructor, I mean buman; so tha
same plain instruction sufficientlv served to -the en-
lightening this stt\age creature, and bringing him to
be Midi a Chrisimn as i have known few equal to
him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrnngling, strife, and con-
tention which hnve happened in the world about re-
Kgkm whether uiteiins in doetvmci, or schemes ef
cburch government, they were all perfectly useless
to us, and, for aught I can yet see, they have been
•o to the rest of the world. We had the sure guide
to heaven, viz. the word of God; and we had, blessed
he Cod, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teach-
ing and instructing us by his word, leading us into all
truth, and making us both willing and obei" inttothe
instruction of his wonl. And I cannot see the least
useC.'that the greatest knowledge of the disputed
points of religion, which have made such confusions
in the world, would have been to us, if we could have
obtained it.—But I must^o on with the historical part
of things, aud take every5iart in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said. to him, and speak pretty f.uently,though in bro-
ken English to me, I acquainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming; to this place; how I had lived here and how
long: I Jet him info the mystery, for such it was to
him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how
to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with; and I made him a belt with a
frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear han-
gers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave
him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon
in some cases, but much more useful upon other oc-
casions.
I described to him the country of Europe, particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshiped God, how we behaved to one a-
nother, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
bad been on board of, and showed him, as near us I
oould, the place where she lay; but she was all bea-
ten in pieces before and gone. I showed him the ru-
ins of oui' boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then:
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing
this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon?
At last, says he, " Me sec such boat like come to place
at .ny natian." I did not understand him a good
while; but, at last, when I had examined farther in-
to it, 1 understood by him, that a boat, such as that
had been, came on shore upon the country where he
lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven thither
by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast t.-'. ay upon their
coast, and the boat might get loose and drivexshore;
but was so dull that I never once thought of men ma-
king their escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come: so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to undet stand him when he added
with some warmth," We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him, if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat?
"Yes" he said; "the boat full of white mans." I
asked him how many? He told upon his fingers sev-
enteen. I asked him then what became of them f
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I pres-
ently imagined that these might be the men belong-
ing to the ship that was cast away in the sight of my
island, as I now called it; and, who, after the ship
was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably
lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and were
Inmied upon that wild shore among the savages. Up-
on this I inquired of him more critically what was be-
come of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live
on. I asked him how it came to pass l.hcy did not
kill them and eat them? He said, "No, they make
brother with them;" that is, as I understood him, a
truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but
when make the war fight;" that is to sny, they nev-
er eat any men but such as come to fight with them,
and nre taken in battle.
It was after this same considerable time, that being
upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America, Friday,
the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly
towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise,falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was
atsomedistati£w from him. I asked him what was the
matter ?" O joy !'' says he; "O glad! there see my
country, there my nation!" I observed an extraordi-
nary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his
own country again. This observation of mine put a
great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was
before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could
get back to his own nation again, he would not only
forget all his religion, but all his Obligation to me, and
would be forward enough to give his countrymen an.
account of me, and come back perhaps with a hon-
dred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at
which he might be as merry as he used to be with
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However,as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I
was a little more circumspect, and notsofamiliar and
kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in
the wrong too; the honest, grateful creature having
no thought about it, but what consisted with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian, ami as a
grateful friend; as appeared aftemvards to my full
satisfaction.
While my jealousy ofhim lasted, you may be sore
I was eveiy day pumping him, to see if he would dis-
cover any of the new thoughts which I susp^cu-d
were in him : but I found every thing he said was BO
honest and so innocent that I could find nothing to
nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasi-
ness, he made me at last entirely his own again i iwir
did he in the least perceive thai 1 was uneasy, and
therefore 1 could not suspect him ul'iIt-ceil.
; One day, walking up the same hill, but the weath-
er being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not
you wish yourself in yourown country, your own na-
tion ?"—" Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to ba
at my own nation." "What would you do there?
said I: "would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh
again, and be a savage, as you were before?' He
looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said,
"No, no, Friday tell them to live good ; tell them to
pray God; tell them to eat corn bread, cattle flesh,
milk; no eat man again."—" Why then," said I to
him, " they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, " No, no; they no kill me, they wil-
ling love learn." He meant by this, they would be
willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked
him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me that he could not swim so far. I told
him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he
would go, if I would go with him. "I go!" says I,
'' why, they will eat me if I come there."—" No,
no," nays he, " me make they no eat you; me make
they i.mrh love you." He meant, he would tell
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me. Then he told
me, as well as he could, how kind they were to sev-
enteen white men, or bearded men, as he called them,
who came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with those bearda
ed men, who I made no doubt were Spaniards and
Portuguese: not doubting but if I could, we might
find some method to escape from thence, being upon
the continent, and a good company together, better
than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
and alone, without help. So, after some days, I took
.Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to go back to his own
nation; and accordingly, I carried him to my frigate,
.which lay on the other side of the island, and having
cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk ht wa-
ter,) I brought it out, showed it him, and we both
went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow
at managing it, and would make it go almost as swift
again as I could. So when he was in I said to him,
"Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation f
lie looked very dull at my saying so; which it seenw
was, because he thought the boat too small to goso
far: I then told hira I had a bigger; so the next dsv
I went to the place where the first boat lay which 1
had made, but which I could not get into the water,
tie said that was big enough: but then, as I had to-
ken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, thai
it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such •
boat would do very well, and would carry "much
enough vittlc, drink, bread;" that was his way of
talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent
that I told him we would go and make one as big a•
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him P He asked ma
again, " Why you angry mad with Friday? what me
done: I asked him what he meant: 1 told him 1 was
not angry with him at all. "No angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times, "why send Fri-
day home away to my nation ?—" Why, says I, "Fri-
day did not you say you wished you were there."
—" Yes, yes," says he, " wish be both there; no wish
Friday there, no master there." In a word he would
not think of going there without me. "I go there,
Friday !" says I, "what shall I do there >" He re-
turned very quicfc upon me at this; "You do great
deal much good,'' says he; "you teach wild mansba
good sober, tame mans; you tell them know Gal,
pray God, and live new life."—'' Alas, Friday ^ssjs
I, thon knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."—"Yes, yes,"says he, wyoa
teachee me good, you teachee them good."—"'No
no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without me; leaw
me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word; and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes
IT up hastily, and gives it to me. a What must I do
with this?" says I to him. "Yon take kill Friday,
says he. ii What must I kill you for?" said I again:
He returns very quick, "What you send Friday a-
w*y for?" Take kill Friday, no send Friday awav."
This he spoke so earnestly that 1 saw tears stand in
his eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the ut-
most affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
liun,that I told him then, and often after, that I would
never send him away from me, if he was willing to
stay v/ith me. Upon the whole, as I found hy all his
discourse H settled affection to me, and that noth-
ing should part him from me, so I found all the
foundation of his desire to go to his own country was
laid in his ardent a flection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as [
had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought
or intention or desire of undertakuig it. Hut still I
found a strong inclination to my attempting an esciipe,
as above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen beard-
ed men there: and therefore, without any more de-
lay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
cttnoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of
periaguas or canoes. but even of good large vessels:
but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near
the water that we miffht launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake 1 committed at first At bist
Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much helter than I what kind of wood was fittest for
it: nor can I tell, to this<Iay, what wood to call the
'ree we cut down, except! that it was very like the
ree we cull fustic, or between that and the Nioara-
nta wood, for it was much thesamecolourand smell.
rYirlHV WHS for burning the hollow or cavity of this
rec out, to make it fora boat, but I showed him how
;o cut it with tools l tthicb, after I had showed him
how to ase, he did very handily: and jin about >
month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I
diowed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were, inch by inch upon great rollers into
the water; but when she was in, she would have car-
ried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and
how swift my man Friday would manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her. "Yes,"
he said, " we venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind." However, I had a farther design
that he knew nothing of, and that was, to make a
mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and ca-
ble. As to a mast, that was easy snough to get; so
I pitched upon a straight young ceder tree, which I
found near the place, and which there were great
plenty of in the island: and I set Friday to work to
out it down, and gave him directions how to shape
and order it. But as to the sail, that was my partic-
ular care. 1 knew I had old sails, or rather pieces
of old sails enough; but as I had tiad them now six
and twenty years by me, and had not been very care-
ful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ev-
er have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were
so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work; and
with a great deal of pains, and awkward stitching you
may he sure, for want of needles, I at length made a
three cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Kng-
htnd. a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as us-
ually our ship's long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage, as it was such a one as I had
to the boat in which I made my escape from fiarbu-
iy, as ralated in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for Ifin-
ished them very complete, makings small stay, and
a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I was but
a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness,
and even, necessity of such a thing, I applied mvself
with so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it
to pass; though, considering the many dull contri-
vances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me al-
most as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and
a rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw
me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rud-
der, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or
that way, as the course we sailed changed: I say,
when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed. However, with a little use, I made all these
tiiings familiar to him, and he became an expert sai-
lor, except that as to the compass: I could make
him understand very little of that. On the other
hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were
always to be seen by night, and the shore by day,ex-
cept in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to
stir abroad either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that 1 had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left nut of the account, my habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the rest of the time.
I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first,
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first,
I htul much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for 1 had an invincible impression upon
my thoughts that my deliverenee was at hand, and
that 1 should not be another year in this place. 1
Tent on, however, with my husbandry: digging,
planting, and fencing, ns usual. I gathered and cured
my grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times.
We had stowed onr new vessel as secure as we could,
brinpng her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and
hauling her up to the shore nt high water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in; and then, when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep
the water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from
the sea: and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees, so thick that she •was as well
thatched as a house; and thos we wailed for the
months of November and December, in which I de-
signed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to contc in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather.
I was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provis-
ions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, sed
b'ul him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could finrii
turtle, or tortoise, a tiiing which we generally pot
once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
f;esh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
bis feet on; and before I had time to speak to Mm,
he cries out to me, "O master I O master! 0 sor-
row! O had !"—" What's the matter, Friday
says I. "O yonder, there," says he, "one, te
three, canoe; one, two, three!'' By this way u'
speaking, 1 concluded there were six; but ou inquiiy
I found there were but three. " Well, Friday," says
I, " do not be frightened." So I heartened him up
as well as I could: however, I saw the poor fellow
was most terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head
but that they were come to look for him, and
would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to
do with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he, and tha»
they would eat me as well as him. "Hut," says 1,
"Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can yoa
fight, Friday ?"—"Me shoot," says he, "but there
come many great number."—" No matter for that,"
said I, a^ain; "our guns will fright them that we do
not kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me,
and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die when
you hid die, master." .So I went and fetched a good
dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good
a hosband of my rum, that I had a great deal left.
When he drank it, I made him take the two fowling
pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them
with large swanshot, as big as small pistol bulletsi
then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two
slugs, and five small bullets each; and my two pis-
tols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I bung my
great sword as usual, naked by my side, and gave
-Friday his hatchet. When I had tbus prepared my-
self, I took my perspective glass, and went up to the
sidcofthe hill, to see what I could discover; and ifouiut
quickly by my glass, that there were one and twen*
ty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the u'inmph'.
ant banquet upon" these three buman bodies; a bar-
barous feast indeed! but nothing more than, as I had
observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that
they were landed, not where they had done when
Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek,
where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came almost close down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inbumanerrand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came
down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to
go down to them, and kill them all; and asked him if
he would stand by me. He had now got over hn
fright, and his spirits heing a little raised with the
dram had given him, he was very cheerful, and toM
me, as before, he would die when I hid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which
I had charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, aud three guns upon
his shoulder; and 1 took one pistol, and the other
three guns myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bul-
lets; and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close
behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any thing,
till I bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak A
word. In this posture 1 fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the
creek as to get into the wood, so that I could come
within shot of them before I should be diuovered,
which I bad seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, ray former thot"S
returning, I began to abate my resolution: I do not
mean that I entertained any fear of their number;
for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is cer-
tain I was superior to them, nay, though I had. been
alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call,
what occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to
go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who
had neither done or intended me any wrong? Who,
us to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous cus-
toms were their own disaster; being, in them,a to-
ken indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity,
and to such inbuman courses; but did not call me to
take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much
lees an executioner of hia justice; that, whenever he
thought fit, he wonld take the cause into his own
hands, and, by national vengeance, punish them, as a
people, for national crimes; but that in the mean
time, it was none of my business; that it was true,
Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very parttc-
ular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them:
but I could not say the same with respect to myself.
These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I
would only go and place myself near them, that I
mtght observe their barbnrous feast, and that I would
act then as God should direct; but that, unless some-
thing offered that was more a call to me than yet I
knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood : and, with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following
close at my heals, I marched till I came to the skirt oY
the wood, on the side which was next to them, only
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a
great tree which was just at the corner of the wood,
1 bade him go to the tree, and bring rae word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing, hie
did so, and came immediately back to me, and told
me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, whom he said they would
lull next, and whieh fired the very soul within me.
He told me, it was not one of their nation, but one ot'
the bearded men whom he had told me of, who came
to their country in a boat. I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white bearded man; and, go-
Ing to the tree, 1 saw plainly by my glass a white man,
who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
his feet tied with flags, or things tike rushes, and that
he was an Kuropean, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
wherc I was, which, by going a little way about, I sa*
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should
be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my pas-
.;,,.,, though I was indeed enraged to the highest de-
gree; and gomg back about twenty paces, I got be-
hind some bushes, which held all the way till I cami
to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at th<
distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of ths
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close burl-
died together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhapi
Jimb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooping
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday
.—" Now, Friday," said I, " dons I bid thee." Friday
s:iid he would. "Then, Friday," says I," do exactly
:u you see me do; fail in nothing." So I sat down ou
o/the muskets and the fowling piece upon the groune,
and Friday did the like by his: and with the otha
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him tu
do the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said.
"Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, ami
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, it
a dreadful consternation; and all of them who wen
not burt, jumped upon their feet, but did not imme-
diately know which way to run, or which way to loot.
"for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that,
1 had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, *
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down thi
piece, and took up the fowling piece, and Friday utl
the like: he saw me cock and present; he did tin
same again. "Are you ready, Friday >" said I.—
"Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in tha
name of God !'' and with that I fired again among tlw
amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pie-
ces were now loaden with what I called swanshot, or
small pistol bullets, we found only two drop, but si
many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most«
them miserably wounded, whereof three more EeJ
quickly after, though not quite dead.
« Now, Friday," saysl,layingdown the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet load-
en, "follow me;" which he did with a great deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, aud Friday close at my foot . As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so too; and running as
fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast,
being loaded with arms as 1 was, I made directly to-
wards the poor victim, who was, as I satd, lying upo'i
the beuch, or shore, between the place where they
sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just
going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the
seaside, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more
of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he un-
derstood me immediately, and running about forty
yards, to be nearer them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all fall
of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of them up
ugain quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third so that he lay down in the bottom
of the boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim;
and loosing his hands and feet, 1 lifted him up, and
asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was,
He answered in Latin, Christianus: but was so weak
and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took
my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making
signs that he should drink, which be did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he eat . Then 1 asked
him what countryman he was: and he said Espagni-
ole; and being a little recovered, let me know, by
all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior," said
I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, " we
will talk afterwards, but we must fight now: if you
have any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and
lay about you." He took them very thankfully; and
no sooner had he the arms in his hand, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon big mur-
derers like a fnry, and had cut two of them in pieces
in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a
surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much
irightened with the noise of our pieces that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more
power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh
had to resit our shot : and that was the case of those
live that Friday shot at ;n the boat; for as three of
them fell with the burt they received, so the other
two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword: so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he did with
great swiftness; and then Riving him my musket, I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was
loading these pieces, there happened s fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard, and one of the savages,
who made at him with one nf their great wooden
swords, the samelike weapon that was to have killed
him before, it'I had not prevented it. The Spaniard.
who was as bold and brave as could be imagined,
though weak, haJ fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two great wounds on his head; bat
the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with
him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was
wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Span-
iard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword,
drew the pistol from his g'n-dle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, be-
fore 1, who was running to help him, could come
near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but h»
hatchet; and with that he despatched those three,
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, aad fall-
en, and alt tin; rest he could come up with : and the
Spaniard couiing to me for :t gun, I gave him one of
itte fouling pieces, with which he pursued two ot'
the savages, and wounded them Imth ; but, as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the
wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one
ot them. but the other was too nimble tor him: and
thongh he was wounded, yet had plunged himself
into the sea, and swam with all his mi^ht off to thnve
two who were left in the canoe, which three in the
conoe, with one wounded, that we knew not whether
he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one
and twenty ; the account of the whole is as follows:
three killed at our first shot from the tree; two kill-
ed by Friday in the boat ; two killed by Friday, of
those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed,
being found dropped here and there, of their wounds,
or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four esca-
ped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.-—
Twenty-one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gunshot, and though Friday made two or three
iihots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of theirea-
noes, and pursue them; and indeed, 1 was very
anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news
home to their people, they should come back perhaps
with two or three bundred of the canoes, and devour
us by mere multitude ; sol consented to pursue them
by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped
in, and hade Friday follow me; but when I was in
the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor crea-
ture lie there, bound hand and foot, ns the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter s for he had not been
able lo look up over the side of the boat, he was tied
so hard neck and heels , and had been tied so long,
thai he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
tfiey had bound him wlth; ami M-ouM have helped him
up ; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was
only unbound in order to be killed. When Fridav
came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him
of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made
him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any
one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, em-
braced him, bugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, dancad, sung; then cried again, wrung
his hands, beat his own face and head; and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature.
It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a tittle to himself, he told me that it was his
father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what eestasy and filial affection had worked in thia
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe
half the extravagances of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of Ihe boat, a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would sit
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving
what the case was, gave him some rum out of ray bot-
tle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost out
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
it blew sohard within two hoursafter, and before they
could be got a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not sup-
pose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
Weir own coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that 1 enuld not find in my heart to take him
off for some time; but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme;
then I asked him if he had given his father any bread.
Me shook his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat
all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave
him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or
three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful of
them for his father. He had no sooner given his
father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he
ran at such a rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on
his feet that ever I saw : I say, he ran at such a rate
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and
though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an
hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as
he went; and as he came nearer, I found his pace
slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had gottwomore cakes
or loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father; however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits 1
had given him, for he waajust fainting with thirst.
When h!s father had drank, I called to him to
know if there was any water left: he said, "Yes.;"
and I bade him gne it to the poof Spaniard, who was
in as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of
the cakes, that Friday brought, to lhe Spaniard too,
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself
upon a preen place under the shade of a tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When 1 aaw that, open Friday's doming to him with
the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread,
and began to eat, I went to him and gave him a hand-
ful of raisins: he looked up in my face with all the
tokens of gratitude and thankfuhiess that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstand-
ing he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he
could not stand up upon his feet ; he tried to do it
two or three times, but was really notable, his ankles
were so-swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him
ait still,and caused Friday to rubhisHnkles,and bathe
them with rum, as he had done his father's.
- I observed the poor affectionate crcntnre, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turn his head about, to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to he seen; at which he
started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when
he came he only found he bud laid himself down to
ease his limbs, so Friday came hack to me presently;
and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him up, if he could, And lead him to the boat, and
then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I
would take care of him: but Friday, a lusty strong
fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him-away to the boat, and set him down soft-
ly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet
in the inside of it: and then lifiing-him quite in, he
set him close to his father ; and presently stepping
out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along
the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the-boat, ran away
to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke
to him, and asked.him whither he went tletold me,
* Go fetch more boat:" so away be went like the
wind, for sure never man.or horse ran like him ;aml
he had the other canoe in the creek almost .is soon as
I Rot to it by land; so he wafted me over, and then
went to.help our new gue«s out of the boat, which
he did ; bnt they were neither of them able to walk,
SKI that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them both up together upon it, between us.
Rut when we got them to the outside of our wall,
or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before,
for it was impossible to get them over, and I was re-
solved not to break it down; so I set to work again;
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a
very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above
that with boughs of trees, being in the space without
our outward fence, and between that and the grovi:
of young wood which I had planted: and here un-
made them two beds of slieh things as I had, viz. of
good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it, to li« on,
and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, iiow like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of domin-
ion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected;
I was absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed
their lives tome, and were ready to lay down their
lives, if there had been occasion for it, forme. Itwas
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they
were, of three different religions: my man Friday
was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a canni-
bal, and the Spaniard was a Papist; however, I al-
lowed liberty of conscience throughout my domin-
ions :—Hut this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provis-
ion for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered
Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and .1
gout, nut of my particular flock, to be killed; when I
tut olTthe hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing,
and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh
and broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I
made no tire within my inner wall, so I carried it all
into the new tent, and having set a table there for
them, I sat down, and eat my own dinner also with
them, and, as well as 1 could, cheered them and en-
couraged them. Friday was my interpreter, espe-
cially to his lather, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too;
for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages
pretty well.
At'ter we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch onr
muskets and our fire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next
day, 1 ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would
presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I
knew were pretty much, and which I could not think
of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them,
if I went thnt way; all which he punctually perform-
ed, and effaced the very appearance of the savagps
being there; so that wlu-n I went again, I could
scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the cor-
ner of the wood pointing lo the place.
I then begun to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday toin-
quire of his father what he thought of the escape of
the savages in that canoe. and whether we might ex-
pect a return of them. with a power too great for us
to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in
the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went off, but must, of necessity. he
drowned, or driven south to those other shores, where
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to he
drowned, if they were cast away: but, ss to what
they would, if they came safe onshore, he said he
knew not; but it was his opinion, that they were so
dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked,"the noise, and the fire, that he believed Uie;r
were all killed by tbunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man ; and thai the two which appeared, viz.
Friday and I, were two heavenly spiriis, or furies,
come down to destroy them, and not men with wea-
pons. This, he said, he knew ; because he heard
them all cry out so, in their language, one to another;
for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man
could dart fire, and speak tbunder, and kill at a dis-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now:
and this old savage was in the right; for, as I under-
stood since, by other hands, the savages never at-
tempted to go over to the island afterwards, they were
so terrified with the accounts given by those tour men,
(for, it seems, they did escape the sea) that they be-
lieved whoever went to that enchanted island would
be destroyed with fire from the gods. This, howev-
er, I knew not; and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon
rny guard, with all my army: for,as there were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hondred of
them, fairly in the open field, at any lime.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the tear of their eoming wore off; and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main
into consideration; being likewise assured, by Fri-
day's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation, on his account, if 1 \vould go. But
my thoughts were a litlle suspended when I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when 1 un-
derstood that there were sixteen more of his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who, having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage, and found
they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la
Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and
to bring back what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they took out of another vreck;
YoL. I. L 2
thatfive of their own men were drowned, when first
the ship wns lost, ami that these escaped through in.
iinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starv-
ed, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to
have heen devoured every moment. He told me
they had some arms with them, but they were per-
fectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor
ball, the washing of the sea having spoited all their
powder, but a little, which they used, at their first
landing, to provide themselves some fttod.
1 asked him what he thought would become of
them there, and if they had I'ormed any design of
making their escape. He said they had manv consul.
tations about it; but that having neiiher vessel, nor
tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
councils always ended in tears and despair. tasked
him how he .thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend towards an escape; and
whether, if they were all here, it might not be done
s1 told him with freedom, I feared mostly their treach-
ery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands;
for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature
of man, nor did men always square their dealings by
the obligations they had received. so much as they
did by the advantages they expected. I told him
it would be very hard that I should be the instrument
of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards
make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an
Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice, what
necessity or what accident soever brought him thith-
er; and that I had rather be delivered up to the sav-
ages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merci-
less claws of the priests, and be carried into the In-
quisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded,
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils, southward, or to the Islands, or Span-
ish coast northward; but that if, in requital, they
should, when I had put weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might
be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my
vsse worse than it was before.
He answered, with a^great deal of candour and in-
genuousness, that their condition WHS so miserable,
and that the; were so sensible of it, that, he helived,
they would abHorthe thought of using any man un-
kindly thai should contribute to iheir deliverance;
and that if I pleased, he would go to them with the
old man, and discourse with them about it and retufn
ii.^iin. and bring me their answer; that he would
make conditions with them upon their solemn oath,
that they should be absolutely under my leading, as
their commander and captain; and they should swear
tipun the holy sacraments and gospel, "to be true to
me, and go to such Christian country us that I'should
afiree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and
absolutely by my outers, till they were landed safely
In such country as I intended; and that he would
bring a contract from them, under their hands, for
that purpose. Then he told me he would firstswear
to me himself, that he would ne\er stir from me as
long as tie lived, till I gave him orders; mid that ho
would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if
there should happen the least breach of faith among
his countrymen. He told me they Mere all of them
vory civil, honest men, and they were under tin;
greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discre-
tion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever retwnins
to their own country ; and that he wassnre.ifl would
undertake Iheir relief, they uould lite and ilieby mo.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, If possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when ar
had got nil things in ivadinLss to go, the Spaninit!
himself started an objection, uhich had so tntieh pru.
denrc in it on o;ie hand, and so much sincerity on th.-
other hand, that I couhl not but be very well satisFn''!
in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance oflrs
eomrades lol'iit least hall'n yeur. The cane was I|HIK:
lie had been with us nuw about a month, dio'lr^
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had laid up; which, though it was more than
sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without
good busbandry, for my family, now it was increased
to four; but much less would it be sufficient if his
countrymen, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive,
should come over; and, least of all, would it be suffi-
cient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for
a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America;
so he told me he thought it would be more advisable
to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some
more land, as much as I could spare seei! to sow, and
that we should wait another harvest, that we might
have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they
should come ; for want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, oth-
wise than out of one difficulty into another. "You
know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for their beingdelivered out ofEgypt,
yet rebelled even against God himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wilder-
ness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity:
so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and
in about a month's time, by the end of which it was
seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trim-
med up as we sowed two and twenty bushels of bar-
ley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave
ourselves barley sufficient for our own food, for the
six months that we had to expect our crop; thatii
to say, reckoning from the lime we set our seed a-
side for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is sii
months in the ground in that county.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of all fear of savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the island, whenever we
found occasion; and as here we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine.
l''or this purpose,! marked out several trees which I
thought tit for our work, and 1 set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on that
affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and 1 caused them to do
the like, till they had made about a dozen large planks
of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long,
and from two inches to four inches thick: what pro-
digious labour it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time, 1 contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and, for this
purpose, I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we
took our turns,) and by this means we got about twen-
ty young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenev-
er we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
them to our Bock. But, above all, the season for cu-
ring the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious
quantity to be hong up in the sun, that, I believe, had
we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are
cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels;
and these, with our bread, was a great part of our
food, and was very good living too, I assure you, for
it is exceeding nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we bro't
in and threshed out above two bundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice ; which
was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me: or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to
•ay, any part of America. When we had thos hous-
ed and secured our magazme of corn, wefrll to work
to make more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy'
and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me lhal
1 did not make some things for defence of this kind
of work ; but I saw no need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind them there. I gave him a strict
charge not to bring uny man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who
was so kind as to send for them in order to their de-
liverance; but that they would stand by him, and de-
fend him against all such attempts, and wherever
they went, would be entirely imdrr and subjectid to
hia command; and that this should be put in writing-,
and signed with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I knew they had neither pen or ink,
was a question which we never asked. Under these
instruction*, the Spaniard and the old savage, the
father of Friday, M'ent away in one of the canoes
which they might be said to come in, or rather were
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be de-
voured by the savages. I gave each of them a niuh-
ket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good hus-
bands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work. being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twen-
ty-seven years and snme days. I gave them provis-
ions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for them-
selves for many days, and sufficient for all lhe Span-
iards for about eight days' time: and wishing them a
good vovage, I saw them go; agreeing with them a-
fcout a signal they should hang out at thm- retuin, bj:
which I should know them again, when they came
backt at a distance, before they came on shore. They
went away with H fair gale, on the day that the moon
was at full, by my account in the month of October;
but as for an exact reckoning of days, after 1 had
once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I
kept even the number of years so punctually asto be
sure I was right; though as it proved, when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a
true reckoning of years.
It was no 1ess than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened,
of which the like has not perhaps been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my butch one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they
are come!" I jumped up, and regardless of danger,
I went out as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove, which, by the way, was by
this time grown to be a very thick wood; 1 say, re-
gardless of danger, I went without my arms, which
Avas not my custom to do: but 1 was surprised, when
turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and ahalf distance, standing in for the
shore, with'a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in:
also I observed presently, that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this I called
Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these were not
the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-
glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
liill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being
discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill,
when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an
anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from
me, S.S.E. but not above a league and a half from
the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly
to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one I had reason to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and con-
sequently, friends, was such as I cannot describe ; but
yet 1 had some secret doubts bung about me, I can-
not tell from whence they came, bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider what business an English ship could have
in that part of the world, since it was not the way to
or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they
were really English, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had bet-
ter continue as I was than fail into the hands of thieves
and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility of Us being real. That
such MnUf and notices are given us;I believe few that
have made any observations of things can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and
:i converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme,or inferior and subordinate,
is not the question,) and that they are given for our
good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, come it from
whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in
a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently. I had not kept myself long in this pos-
ture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if
they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the conven-
ience of landing; however, as tbey did not come
fer enough, they dkl not see the little mlci
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat
on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from
me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise
they would have landed just at my door, as I may say,
ami would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and
perhaps have plundered me of all I had. When they
were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were En-
glismen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in
all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were
unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the
first four o:. five of them were jumped on shore, thev
took those three out of the boat, as prisoners: one ot'
the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gestures of entreaty, affliction and despair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two, I could per-
ceive, lilted up their hands sometimes, and appeared
concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be. Fridav
called out to me in English, as well as he could, "O
master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as
savage mani'."—"Why, Friday," says I, "do yon
think they are going to eat them then ?"—" Yes,"
says Friday, " they will eat them."—(. No, no," sai s
1, " Friday; I am afraid they will murder them, in-
deed, but yon may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while 1 had no thought of what the mutter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting eveiy moment when the three pris-
oners should he killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the sea-
men call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men;
and 1 expected to see him fall every moment; at
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill
in my veins. 1 wished heartily now for my Spaniard,
and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had
any way tii have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that 1 might have rescued the three men, for
I saw no tire-arms they had among them; but it fell
out to ui} minii another wny. After I hud observed
the outrageous usage of trie three men by the inso-
lent seamen, I observedtihe -fellows run scattering
about the island, as if they wanted to see the country.
I observed that the three other men had liberty to
go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like
raen in despair. This put me in mina of the first
time when I came on shore, and began to look about
me; how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I
looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions I
had; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear
of being devoured by wild beasts. As 1 knew noth-
ing, that night, of the supply I was to receive hy the
providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which I have since been so long
nourished and supported; so these three poor deso-
late men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and supply they were; how near it was to them, and
how effectually and really they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought them-
selves lost and their case desperate. So little do we
see before us in the world, and so much reason have
we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of
the world, that he does not leave his creatures so ab-
solutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstan-
ces, they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they
imagine, nay, are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to be brought to
their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and partly while they rambled
about to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the
water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drank a little too
much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them wa-
king a little sooner than the other, and finding the boat
too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the
re«t, who were straggling about; upon wltioli thtj all
soon fame to the boat: bu{ it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, al-
most like a quicksand. In this condition, like true
seamen, who are perhaps the least of all mankind
pnven to forethought, they gave it over, and away
they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of them say aloud to another, calling them off
from the boat, " Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you?
she'll float next tide:" hy which I was fully confirm-
ed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they
were. All this while I kept mvself very close, not
once daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than
to my place of observation, near the top of the hill;
and very glad I•was to think how well it was fortified.
I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could float again, and by that time it would be dark,
and I might be at more liberty to see •their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the
mean time, I titled myself up fora battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom 1 had made an excellent marks-
man with his gun, to load himself with arms I took
myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three mus-
kets. My figure, mdeed, was very fierce ; 1 had ray
formidable goat-skin soat on, with the great cap I
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pis-
tols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above- not to have made
any attempt till it was dark: but Ibont two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down tosleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep,
were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great
tree at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in
the figure as above, my man Friday at u good distwwo
behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but r
making quite so staring a spectrelike figure us I dki
} came ns near them undiscovered as I could, anc
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud tc
them in Spanish," What are ye gentlemen ?" The;
started up at the noise; but were tea times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth fig-
ure that I made. They made no answer at all, In!
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me.
when I spoke to them in English: "Gentlemen,"
said I, " do not be surprised at me: perhaps you mar
have a friend near, when you did not expect it."—
"He must be sent directly from Heaven then," eak
one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off hi
hat at the same time, to me; "for our condition i
past the hrlp of mas."—"All help is from Heaven
Sir," said I: " But can you put a stranger in the wai
how to help you? for yon seem to be in some greal
distress. I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came
with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill
you."
The poor man, with tears running down his facf.
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned.
"Am1 talking to God or man? Is it a real man o:
an angel ?"—"Be In no fear ahout that, Sir," said I:
"if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he woult
have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner than you see me: pray lay aside your fears:
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist
you: you see I hiwe one servant only ; we have arm?
and ammunition ; tell us freely, can we serve you'
\Vhat is your case ?"—^..Our case," said he, " Sir, i!
to long to tell you, whU4i'OUr murderers are so near
us: but, in short, sir, 1 was commander of that ship,
my men have uiutined against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me; and at lust
have set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
Iwo men with me, one my mate, the other a passen
ger, where we expected to perish, believing the place
to in/ uninhabited, mid know not yet vihul to think ol
it."—" Where are these brutes, your enemies?" said
I: "Do you know where they are gone ?"—" There
they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees;
"ray heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly
murder us all."—"Have they any fire-arms?" said
I. He answered, " they had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat." "Well then,"said
I, " leave the rest to me ; I see they are all asleep,
it is an easy thing to kill them all : but shall we rath-
er take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe
to show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he
believed all the test would return to their duty. I
asked him which they were? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he would
obey my orders in any thing I would direct. "Well,"
says I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further." So
they willingly went back with me, till the woods cov-
ered us from them.
"Look you, Sir," said I, "if I venture npon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling
me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should
be wholly directed and commanded by me in every
thing; and, if the ship was not recovered, be would
live and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him; and the two other men said the
same. "' Well," says I, " my Conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island with me,
you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is
or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man
to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention
or faith of man could devise, that he would comply
with these most reasonable demands; and, besides,
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon a!
occasions, as long as he lived." " Well then," said I.
"bere are three muskets for you, powder and ball
tell me next what you think" proper to be done."
He showed all the testimonies ot his gratitude that
he was able, but offered to be whollv guided by nx:.
.1 told him 1 thought it was bard venturing anvthingi
but the best method I could th'uik of was to fire upoo
them at once, as they lay, and if any were not killed
at the first \olley, and offered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot. He said very modestly, thai
he was loath to kill them, if he could help it: bul
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been
the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and ifthry
escaped, we should be undone still; for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's company, and
destroy us all. "Well then," says I, " necessity le-
gitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save oor
lives." However, seeing him still cautious of shed-
ding blood, 1 told him they should go themselves, and
manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them oo
their"feet. 1 asked him if either of them were the
heads of the muljny? He'said, No. "Well then,"
said I, "you may let them" escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to sa»e
themselves—Now," says 1, " if the rest escape you,
it is your fault." Animated with this, he took the
musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in
his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each »
piece in his hand; the two men who were with him
going first, made some noise, at which one of the sea-
men who was awake turned about, and seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then,
for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the
two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece
They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and
tie Mhw very moth wounded; but not being d*ad,
he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help
to the other; but the captain stepping to him, told
him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon
God to forgive his villany ; and with that word knock-
ed him down with the stock of his musket, to that he
never spoke more: there were three more in the
company, and one of them was also slightly wounded.
By this time I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare
their lives, if they would give him an assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guil-
ty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recov-
ering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could,
be desired, and he was willing to believe them, ami
spare their lives, which I was not against, only that 1
obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while
they were on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and sails, which they diil: and
by and by three straggling men, that were (happily
for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hear-
ing the guns fired: and seeing the captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bouud-also; and so our victory was
complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to ama'/.ement; and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with,
(irovisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my story is
a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
Dut when he reflected from thence upon himseff,
'j nl how I seemed to have been preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face,
and he could not speak a word. After this commu-
woatioa was at au cod, I carried him and his two me*
into my apartment, leading them in just where 1
came oat, viz. at the top of the house, where I re-
freshed them with such provision as I had, and show-
ed them all the contrivances I had made, during my
long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfect-
ly amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my
fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed mv
retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been now
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick, that it was impossible in any part
of it but at that one side where I had reserved my
little winding passage into it. I told him this was my
castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon tills occasion, and I would show him that too
another time: but at present our business was to con-
sider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me
as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a lost
what measures to take, for that there were still sis
and twenty hands on board, who having entered into
a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by
desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if
they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any
of the English colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a number
as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on speedily, a
well to draw the men on board into some snare for
their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us,
and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred
to me, that in a little while the ship's crew, wonder-
ing what was become of their comrades and of the
boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat, to look for them ; and that then perhaps they
might come armed, and be too strong for us.- this IK
-.lion-od to be rational. Upon this, I told him the
first thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which
lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
off; and taking every thing out of her, leave her to
far useless as not to be fit to swim; accordingly we
went on board, took the arms which were left on
board, out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a
few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar was five or
six pounds); all which was very welcome to me, es-
pecially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none
left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore,
(the oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were car-
ried away before, as above), we knocked a great hole
in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to
master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. In-
deed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could
be able to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if
they went away without the boat, 1 did not much
question to make her fit again to.carry us to the Lee-
ward Islands,and call upon our friends the Spaniards
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were tbus preparing our designs, and
had first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon the
lieach so high that the tide would not float her off at
liigh water mark, and besides, had brake a hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were set
ilown musing what we should do, we heard the ship
fire a gun, and make a waft with her ensign as a sig-
nal for the boat to come on board: but no boat stir-
red; and they fired several times, making other sig-
jials for the boat. At last, when all their signals and
firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not
stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist
another boat out, and row towards the shore ; and we
found, as they approached, that there were no less
than tell men in her, and that they had fire arms with
them.
VOL. I. M
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight even of their faces; because the tide having set
them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed
up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by
this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the
captain knew the persons and characters of all the
men in the boat, of whom he said there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered ani!
frightened; but that as for the boatswain, whoi
seems was the chief officer among them, and all thi
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew.
and were no doubt made desperate in their new en-
terprise; and terribly apprehensive he was that they
would be too powerful for us. I smiled at him, anii
told him that men in our circumstance's were past the
operatic of fear; that seeing almost every condition
that could be was better than that which we wert
supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the con-
sequence, whether death or lite, would be sure to be
a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the
circumstances of my life. and whether a deliverance
were not worth venturing for ?" And where, Sir/'
said I, " Is your belief of my being preserved here oo
purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little
while ago? For my part," said I, there seems to me
but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it."—" What
is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it is, thatai
you say there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared: had they been all of
the wicked part of the crew, I shoidd have thoughi
God's providence had singled them out to deliver them
into your hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they
behave to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encour-
aged him ; so we set vigorously to our business.
We had upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from lhc ship, oonsiderctl of separating our
prisoners; mid we had, indeed, secured them effectu-
ally. Two of them, of whom the captain was less as-
sured than ordinary, I sent wilh Friday, and one of
the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, snd nut of danger of being heard or
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woo;ls if
they could have delivered themselves: here they left
them bound, but gave them provisions; and promis-
ed them, if they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempt-
ed their escape, thev should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con-
tinement with patience, and were very thankful that
they had such good usage as to have provisions and
light left them; fur Friday gave them candles (such
as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they
did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them ; but the nthei two were taken
into my service, upon the captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed; and I made no doubt we
, should be able to deal well enough with the ten that
were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest men among them
also. As soon as they got to the place where their
other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach,
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them,
which I was glad to see, for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her,
and so we should not be able to seize the boat. Be-
ing on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to
their other boat; and it w;is easy to see they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above,
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After thev had mused a while upon this, they set u!
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all thei
might, to try if they could make their companioni
hear; but all was to no purpose: then they came all
close iii a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which, indeed, we heard, and the echos made the
woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we
were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. They were so astonished at the sur-
prise of this, that as they told us afterwards, they re-
solved to go all on board again to their ship, and It
them know that the men were all murdereil, and th
longboat staved ; accordingly, they immediately laun
ched their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even cor.-
founded at this, believing they would go on board thi
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for
lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was
in hopes we should have recovered; but he wts
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again: bul
with this new measure in their conduct, which ii
seems they consulted together upon, viz. to lean
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore
and go up into the country to look for their fellows
This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at loss what to do, as our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let
the boat escape ; because they would then row away
to the ship, and then the rest of them would be.sure
to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the shi}
would be lost. However, we had no remedy but it-
wait and see what the issue of things might present
The seven men came on shore, and the three who
remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait foi
them; so that it was impossible for us to come at
them in the boat. Those that came on shore-kept
close together, marching towards the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay; and we could sec
them plainly though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fii'ed at them, or
that they would have gone farther off, that we might
come abroad. But when they were come to the
brow of the hill, where they could see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not
caring it seems to venture far from the shore, nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to consider of it. Hal they thought fit to have gone
to sleep there, as the other part of them had done,
they had done the job for us; but they were too full
of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they
had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal tome upon-
this consultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
nil fire a rolley again, to endeavour to make their fel-
lows hear, and that we should all sally upon them,
just at the juncture when their pieces were all dis-
charged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked this
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again. But this event did not happen;
and we lay still a long time, very irresolute what
course to take.i At length Mold them there would
he nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then,
if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
find a way to get between them and the shore, and
so might use some stratagem with them, in the boat
to get them on shore. We waited a great while,
though very impr.tient for their removing; and were-
very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we sa''r
them all start up, and march down towards the sea.
it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions upo*
them of the danger of the place, that they resolved t»
go on boiinl tin: ship again, give their companions
over for lost, ani1 so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the
shore, I imagined it to be as it really was, that they
had given-over their search, and were for going back
again; and the captain, as soon as I told him mr
thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions ot'it;
but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them
back again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where
the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued,
and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at
about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as
loud as they could, and wak till they found the sea-
men heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the
seamen answer them, they should return it again; and
then keeping out of sight, take a i'ound, always an-
swering when the others hallooed, to draw them as
tar into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I
directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday
and the mate hallooed; and they presently heard
them, and answering, run along the shore westward,
towards the voice they heard, when they were pres-
ently stopped by the creek, where the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat
to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expect-
ed. When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone a good wayanto the creek,
and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, they
took one of the three men out of'her, to go along with
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. Th«
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Fri-
day and the captain's matg to their business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their
.
, sight, we surprised the two men before they were
, aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other
: being in the boat. The fellow on shore was between
sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knock-
ed him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed vety
few arguments to persuade a single man to yield'
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade
knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of the
three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincere-
ly with us. In the mean time, Friday and the cap-
tain's mate so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answer-
ins, from one hill to another, and from one wood to
another, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were very sure they could not
reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, in-
deed, they were heartily tired themselves also, by the
time they came back to us. t
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them. It was several hours after
Friday came back to me before they came back to
their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those be-
hind to come along; and could also hear them an-
ewer,and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster; which was very welcome
news to us. At length they came up to the boat:
but it is impossible to express their confusion when
they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could
hear them call to one another in a most lamentable
manner, telling on<; another they were got into an
enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there
were devils and spirits in it, and they should be all
can-led away and devoured. They hallooed again,
and called their two comrades by their names a great
many times, but no irtiswer. After some time, we
could see them, by the little light there was, run
about, wringing their hands like men in despair, and
that sometimes they would go and sit down in the
boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again, and
walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me given them leave to
fall upon them at onee in the dark; but I was willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them,
and kill as few of them as I could; and especially I
was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men,
knowing the others-were very well armed. I resolv-
e:d to wait, to see ifthey did not separate; and there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade
nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep
upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and
get as near them as they could possibly, before they
offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shown himself the nvost deject-
ed and dispirited of all the rest, came walking to-
wards them, with tvo more of the crew: the enptain
was so eager at having this principal rogue so much
in his power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they
only heard his tongue before: but when they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon
the spot; the next man was shot into the body, and
fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or
two after; and the third run for it. At the noise of
the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army,
which was now eight men, viz. myr.etf, generalissimo;
Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his
two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we
laal trusted with arms. We eams upou them, in-
'273
il, in the dark, so that '.hoy could not sec our num-
ber; ami I madt lhc man they had left in the host,
who was now one of us, to call them hy name, to try
if I could bring them to a parley, and so might per-
hnps reduce them to terms; whieh fell out just as MV
desired: for indeed it was easy to think, as their con-
dition then vras, they would he very willing to capitu-
late. So he calls out as loud as he could, to one of
lhem, "Tom Smith! Torn Smith!" Tom Smith an-
swrred immediately, "Is that Ho'hinson?" For it
'seems he knew the voice. The other answered,
'" Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down
yontr arms and yield, or you are all dead men thii
vnoment."—" Who must we yield to? Where are
they.'" says Smith again. "Here they are/'says he;
"here's onr c:iptai;t and fifty men with him, have
been bunting you these two hours: the boatswain is

yield," said llobinson: so he asked the captain ; ami
the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, yo:t
know my voice; if you lay down your arms immedi-
ately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins."
Upon this WiH Atkins cried out," For God's safcr,
capta'm, give me quarter; what have I done i1 Thev
have all been as bad as I:'' which, hy the war, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins win
the first map that laid hold of the captain, when they
first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurious language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms :.t
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by
which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their Kves; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who, bound them all; and then
my great army of fifty nurn, which, particularly with
VoL. i, M 2
those thcee, were in all but eight; came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat: otily that I kept
smyself and one more out of sight tor reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and tiiink of
- seizing the ship: and as for thecaptain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the -villany of their -practices with him,
and at length upon the further wickedness of their
design, and how certainly it must bring them to mis-
cry and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gal-
lows. They all appeared very penitent, anil begged
hard for their lives. A« for that, he told them they
-were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
sthe island; that they thought they had set him cm
shove in a barren, uninhabited inland ; but it had pleas-
ed God so to direct them, that it was inhabited, and
that the governor was :tn Englishman; that he might
bung them all there, if he pleased; but as he had
given them all quarter, he supposed he would-send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice re-
quired, except Atkins, whom he was commanded bv
the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that
he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to
-begAhe captain to intercede with the governor for his
life: and all the rest begged of him, foe God's rake,
that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliv-
erance was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in to behearty in. getting
possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a govern-
or they had, and called the captain to me: when I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was or-
xlered to speak again, and say to the captain, "Cap-
tain, the com-mander ealls for you;" and presently
the captain-replied,(t Tell his excellency I tun just a
coming." This more perfectly amused them, and
they all .believed that tkc commander -was Just by
with his fifty men. Upon the captain 'scoming to me,
I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he
liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in exe-
cution the next morning. But, in order to execute
it with more art, and to be secure of success, I told
him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should
go and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of
them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday, and the
two men who came on shore with the captain. They
conveyed them to the cave as to a prison: and it was,
indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their con-
dition. The others I ordered to my bower, as 1 cull-
ed it, of which I have given a full description; and us
it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the plttue was se-
cure enough, considering they were upon their beha-
viour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word, lo
try them, and teU me whether he thought they might
be trusted or not to goon board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were brought to, and that though the gov-
ernor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would nil be hanged in chains, to be sure; but
that if they would join in so just an attempt us to re-
cover the ship, he would have ihe governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, und promised,
with the deepest imprecations, that they would he
faithful to him to the last drop* and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; that they would own him as a father
to them aslongasthey lived. "Well,"says the cap-
tain, u I must go and tell the governor what you sny,
und see what I can do to bring him to cnuseui to it."
So he brought me an account of the temper he found
them in, and that he verily believed they would be
faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
lold him he should go back. again and choose out those
ihe,and tell them', that they might see he did not
\iant men, that he would take out those five to be his
nssistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
tastle (my cave) 33 hostages for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execu-
tion, the five hostages should be hanged in chaics
alive on shore. This looktu' severe, aud convinced
them that the governor was in earnest: however,
thev had no way left them but to accept it; and it
v. as' now the business of the prisoners, as much as of
lhe captain, to persuade the other five to do their
t' uty.
Our strength was now tbus ordered for the expe-
r.iiion: first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captain, I had
I'iven their liberty, and trusted them with arms:
third, The other two that I had kept till now in my
bower pinioned, but on the captain's motion,had now
released: fourth, These five released at last; so that
they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prison-
ers in the cave for hostages.
1 asked the captain if he was willing to venture
v.ith these hands on board the ship; but as forme
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind ; and it
v.as employment enough for us to keep them asun-
der, and supply them with victuals. As to the five
in the cave, 1 resolved to keep them fast, but Friday
swent in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I made the other two carry provis-
ions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person
the governor had ordered to look after them ; and
that it was the governor's pleasure they should not
stir any where bat by my direction ; that if they did,
they would be fetched into the castle, and be laid in
irons: so that as we never suffered them to see me as
a governor, I now appeared as another person, and
spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and
the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenger captain of one,
with four of the men ; and himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other; and they contrived .their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they
had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and the mate entering first,
with their arms, immediately knocked down the sec-
ond mate and carpenter with thebut end of their mus-
kets, being very faithfully seconded by their men;
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
Keep them down that were below; when the other
boat and their men entering at the fore chains, secur-
ed the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which
went down into the cook-room, making three men.
they found there prisoners. When this was done,
and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round-house, where
the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the
alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy had
got fire-arms in their hands: and when the "mate
with a erow split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mute with a musket ball, which broke his arm and
wounded two more-of the men, but killed nobody.
The mute calling for.help, rushed, however, into the
round bouse, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
(.hot the new captain through the head, the bullet
entering at his month, and came out again behind one
of Iils ears, so that he never spoke a word more : upon
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effect-
ually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thos secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his suc-
cess, which you may he sure 1 was very glad to hear
having sat watching upon the shore for it till near
two o'clock in the morning. Having thos heard the
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the
name of Governor, Governor, and presently I knew
the captain's voice; when climbing up to the top of
the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and de-
Iivej-er," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all
yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her." I
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode with*
little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had
'weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of
her, nnd, the weather being fair, had brought her in
an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and, the tide being up, the captain had brought lhe
pinnace in near the place where I at first landed roj
rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was at first
ready to sink down with surprise; for I saw my de-
liverance, indeed visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
whkher I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had
taken me in his arms, 1 held fast by .him, or I should
have fallen to the ground. He perceived the sur-
prise, and immediately pulls a bottle nut of his pock-
et, and gave me a dram of cordial, which hehadbnrt
on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat don
upon the ground; and though it brought me to mj-
self; yet it was a good while befora-1 could speaks
word to him. All this time the poor man was in as
great an eestasy as I, only not under any surprise, as
I was; and he said a thousand kind and tender things
'to me, to compose and bring me to myself: but such
was the flood of joy in my breast that it put all my
-spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into tears;
and in a little while after I recovered my speech. I
then took my turn, and embraced him as my deliv-
erer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me,
and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain
of wonders; that such things as these were the testi-
monies we hid of a secret hand of Providence gov-
erning the world, and an evidence that the eye of an
infinite power could search into the remotest corner
of the world, and send help to the miserable when-
ever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart in
thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart could for-
bear to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in
'such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliv-
erance must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me
he had brought me some little refreshment, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had
1ieen so long his masters had not plundered him of.
"Upon this he called aloud the boat, and bade his men
ttring the things ashore that were for the governor;
and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one that
was not to be carried awny with them, but MS if I had
been to dwell opon the island still. First, he had
brought me »case of bottles full of excellent cordial
waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles
held two quarts each,) two pounds of excellent good
tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six
Iiieees of pork, trith a bag of peas, and about an hon-
•dred weight of biscuit: he also brought me a box of
'sugar, a box of flour, a bagfull of lemons,and two bottles
of lime juice, and abundance of otherthings. But besides
'these, and what w*s a thousand times more osefal to
280 LlJfJS AKD ADVENTVF.tS
me, he brought me six new clean shirt', sis very
neckcloths, two pair of (flows, one pair of shces, n.
hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit
of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very
little; in a word, he clothed tin; (Vinn head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never
was any tiling in the world of that kind so sunpleasant,
awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such
clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were passed, and after all
his good things were brought into my little apart-
ment, we began to consult whnt was to be done with
the prisoners we had; for it'waa worth considering
whether we might vent'ire to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom he knew to
be incorrigible a: id refractory to the last degree; ami
the captain said he knew they were such rogues that
there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them
awny, ii must be in irons, as malefactors, to he deliv-
ered over to justice at the first English colony he
conld come at; and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it. Upon this I toM him that
if he desired it, I would undertake to bring- the two
men he spoke of to make it their own request thai
he should leave them upon Hie island. "I should he
very glad of that," says the captain, "with alt my
heart/'—"Well," says I, a I will send for them up,
and talk with them tor you." So I caused Friday
and the two hostages, for they were now discharged,
their comrades having performed their promise; 1
say, I caused them to go to the cave, and hring op the
five men, pinioned as they were, to ibe bower, aml
keep them there till I came. After some time, I
came thither dressed in my new habit; and now I
was called governor again. Being aH> met, and the
captain with me, I caused ths men to be brought be-
fore me, and I told them 1 had' got a fult account of
nil their villanous behaviour to the captain, and tow
they had run away with the shift and were preparing
to commit farther robberies, but that Providence had
ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were
fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. 1
then let them know that by my direction the shi]i
had been seized; that she lay now in the road; and
that they might see by and by, that their new captain
had received the reward of his villany, and that they
would see him hanging at the yard arm: that as to
them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I
should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact,
MS by my commission they could not doubt but 1 had
authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives,and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them 1 knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I
Itad resolved to quit the island with all my men, and
hod token passage with the captain to go for England;
nnd as for the captain, he could not carry them to
Kngland, other than ns prisoners, in irons, to be tried
for mutiny. and running away with the ship; the con-
sequence of which, they must needs know, would be
the gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the
island; if they desired that, as 1 had liberty to leave
the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. They
seemed very thankful for it, and said they would
much rather venture to stay there than be carried
to England to be hanged: so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some diffi-
c.ulty of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Up-
on this, I seemed a little angry with the captain, and
told him that they were my prisoners, not his; ami
that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I
would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty
as I found them; and if he did not like it, he might
take them again if he could catch them. Upou this.
they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods
to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some firearms, some ammunition, and some di-
rections how they should live very well, if they tho't
fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain I would stay that night to pre-
Iiare my things, and desired him to go on board, in
the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and
send the boat on shore next day for me; ordering
him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who a.«
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men
might see him.
When the captain was gone I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into
discourse with them on their circumstances. I told
them I thought they had made a right choice; that
if the captain had carried them away, they would cer-
tainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain
hanging at the yanl-arm of the ahip, and told them
they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them in the way of mak-
ing if easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the
wiiole history of the place, and of my coming to it;
showed them my fortifications, the way I made mr
bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a
word, all that WHS necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story also of the seventeen Spaniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves. Here it may be noted, that the
captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that I never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal
and water, or of something else, as I had done thing!
much more difficult.
I left them my firearms, viz. five muskets, three
fowling pieces, and three swords. I hadabove a lur-
vel and a half of powder left; for after the first year
or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave
them a description of the War I managed the goats,
mid directions to milk and fatten them, and to make
liolh butter and cheese: in a word, I gave them ev-
ery part of my own story i and told them I should
prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of
gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I
told them I would have been very glad of: also I
gave them the bag of pens which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on hoard the ship. We prepared immediately
to sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
enrly, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, and making the most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship
for God's sake, for they should be murdered, and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them immediately. Upon this the captain
pretended to have no power without me; but after
some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were
some time after soundly whipped and pickled; after
which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the
men; to which the captain, at my intercession, caus-
ed their chests and clothes to be added, which they
took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to
send any vessel to take (hem in, I would not forget
them.
When 1 took leave of this island I carried on board,
for rcliquet, the greut goatskin cap 1 had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by nu- s0 long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and handled; as also the money
I found iu the wreck ol'Ue Spanish ship.
And tbus I left the island the nineteenth of Decem-
ber, as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1683,
after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months, and nineteen days: being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the long-boat, from among the
Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage,
I arrived in England the llth of June, in the jear
1687. having been thirty-five years absent.
When I came to England, 1 was as perfect a stran-
ger to all the world as if I had never been known
there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I
had left my money in trust with, was alive, but had
had great misfortunes in the world; was become a
widow the second time, and very low in the world. I
vnmle her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring
her I would give her no trouble; but on the contrary,
in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to me,
I relieved her as my little stock would afford; which
at that time would indeed allow me to do but little
for her; but 1 assured her I would never forget her
former kindness to mo; nor did I forget her when I
had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its
proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother and all the family
extinct, except that 1 found two sisters, and two of
the children of one of my brothers; and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no pro-
vision madefor me ; so that, in a word, I found nothing
to relieve or assist me; and that the little meney I had
would not Oo much for me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
dill not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by the
same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners ol the manner
how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all together made me a very
homlsimic compliment upon the subject, and a pres-
ent of almost 200J sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would *
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some in-
formation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had
reason to suppose, had some years past given me
over for dead.
provmg a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
saptain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had
left off going to sea, having put his son, who wus fur
from a young man, into his ship, and who still used
'the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me;
and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought
him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself
to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old ac-
quaintance between us, I inquired, you may be sure,af-
ter my plantation and my partner. The old mantold
me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years:
Lut that he could assure me, that when he came away,
ray partner was living; but the trustees, whom I hiid
joined with him, to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead; that, however, he believed I would have
a very good account of the improvement of the plan-
tation; for that upon the general belief of my being
east away and drowned, my trustees had given in the
account of the produce of my part of the plantation,
to the procurator fiscal; who had appropriated it in
sase I never came to claim it, one third to the king,
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to
be expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that ttie im.
proveraent, or ammal production, being distributed
to charitable uses, coulil not be restored : he assured
me, tbut the steward of the king's revenue (from
lands) and the provedore or steward of the monaste-
ry, had tnken great care all along, that the incumbent,
that is to say my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they had duly re-
rceived my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what
height of improvement he had brought the plantation,
and whether he thought it might be worth looking
after ; orwhether, on my going thither, I should mc?t
with any obstruction to my possessing my just right
in the moiety?
He told me he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantations was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the
enjoying his part of it; mid that, to the best of his
remembrance, be had heard that the king's third of
my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some
other monastery or religious house, amounted to ubovc
two bundred moldores a year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no ques-
tion to be made of that, my partner being alive to
witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in
the register of the country; also be told me, that the
survivors of my two trustees were very fair honest
people, and very wealthy; and he believed I would
not only have their assistance for putting me in pos-
session, but would find a veiy considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held their trust,
and before it was given up, as above; which, as he
remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired oflbe old captain how it
came to pass that the trustees should ibus dispose of
my effects, when he knew that 1 had made my v. ill,and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my unireral
heir, &c.
He told tne that was true; but that as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as esec-
utor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and, besides, he was not willing to intermed-
dle with a tiling so remote: that it was true he had
registered my will, and put in his claim ; and could
he have given any account of n-.y being dead or alive
he would have acted by procuration, and taken pos-
session of the ingeino(so they called the sugar house),
and have given his son, who was now at the Brazils,
orders to do it.
"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so accep-
table to you as the rest; and that is, believing you
were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in
your name, for the first six or eight years' profits,
which I received. There being at that time great
disbursements for increasing the works, building an
ingeino, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near
so much as afterwards it produced: however," says
the old man, "I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how 1 have disposed
of it."
After a few days' farther conference with tiiis an-
cient friend, he brought me an account of the first
six years income of my plantation, signed by my part-
ner and the merchant-trustees, being always deliver-
ed in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests,
besides rum, molasses, &e. which is the consequence
of a sugar work; and I found by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased; but,
as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at
first was small : however the old man let me see
that he was debtor to me four bundred and seventy
moidoresof gold, besides sixty cheats of sugar, and
fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his
ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to
Lisbon, about -eleven years after my leaving the
place.
The good man then began to complain of his mis-
fortunes, *md how he had been obliged to make use
of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a
share in a new ship, "However, my old friend,"
says he," you shall not want a supply in your neces-
sity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall ba
fully satisfied."
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me
one bundred and sixty Portugal moidorc.s in goW;
and giving the writings of his title to the ship, which
his son was gone to the Hrazils in, of which he was a
quarter-part owner, and his son another, hcputs them
both into my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the-poor man to-be able to bear this; and re-
nte Dibring what he -had done for me, how he had ta-
ken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain
weeping at what he had said to me; therefore I ask-
ed him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so
much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him? He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money,
and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full ijf affection,
and I--could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;
m short, I took one bundred of the moidores, and
^called for a pen and ink to give lura a receipt for
them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if
sever I had possession of the plantation, I would return
the other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did);
and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's
ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I
wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to
pay me; and if I did not, but come to receive what
sIie.gave me reason to expect, I would never hare. a.
penny more from him.
When this wns passed, the old man asked me if he
should put me into a method to make my claim to
my plantation? 1 told him I thought to go over to it
myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but that
if i did not, there were ways enough to secure my
right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to
niy use: and as there were ships in the river of Lis-
bon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me en-
ter my name in a public register, with his affidavit,
affirming, upon oath, that 1 was alive, and that I was
the same person who took up the laud for the plant-
ing the said plantation at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staying with him
til! an account came of the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the sur-
vivorsofmy trustees, the merchants, for whose ac-
eotmt I went to sea, in which were the following par-
ticular letters and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pro-
duce of my farm or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for six years; the balance appeared to he
one thousand onc bundred and seventy-four moidores
in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years
more, while they kept the effects in their hands, be-
fore the government claimed the administration, as
being the effects of a person not to be found, which
they called civil death; and the balance of this, the
value of the plantation increasing, amounted to nine-
teen thousand four bundred and forty six crusadoes,
being about three thousand two bundred and forty
moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of St. Augustine's
account, who had received the profits for above four-
teen years; but not being to account for what »aa
VOL. I. N
disposed of lly the hospital, very honestly declared he
had eight bundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to mv account:
:is to the king's part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me
au account how the estate WHS improved, and what it
produced a year; with u particular of the number of
squares or acres th:it it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it, and making two and
twenty crosses for hlessii1gs,tuld mehe had said so ma-
ny .1vc -I/amis to thank the Messed Virgin that I
v as idive; inviting me very passionately to come. over
:nitl U.ke possession of my own; and, in the mean
lime, to give him orders to whom he should deliver
my effects, if I did not come mvself; concluding wilb
s heartv tender of his friendship, and that of his fam-
i!v; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopard's
s\ii:s, whiclL.be had, it seems, received from Africa,
hy some other chip that he had sent thither, and a ho,
it seems, had made a better voyage thau I. Ue sent
iue also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a
bundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
ino dorcs.
By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees ship-
ped me one thousand two bundred chests of sugar,
light hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the
v bole account in gold. x
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning. It is impossi-
ble to express the flutterings of my very heart when
I found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil
ships come all in fleets^ the same ships which brought
my letters brought my goods: and the effects were
safe in the river before the letters came to my hand.
In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick ; and had
not the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I be-
lieve the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature,
and I had died upon the spot: nay. after that, I con-
tinued very ill, and was so some hours, till a lihyti-
i-inu being'sent for, and something of the real cause
of my illnesw being known, he ordered, eic to ht• Ivt
blood; after which 1 had relii•f, and ;,rew well; but
I rerHy believe, if 1 lu.ii not been cased by a tent
ii'ivn in that nuinncr lu the s;'ints. 1 should hnve
tlied.
I wre now master, ?.\\ on M sudden, of above five.
thonMind po'mds sterling in mnne} , and h;t,! an rstuU',
sth 1 t:,J;,'jii well CH!! it, in the ttntzils, of above a thou-
sand poundsa yrnr, us BUM' ;is MI eslnle of lands in
(v;;p.!;!i;;i : :uu!f ih a wottl, l,v.:i:•. in ;i condilioti uhic•U
1 fav'HtTc knew h«w to n;xlvi 5Und, cr liovv lit comitrise
•ajseH'tov lite enjoyment of it. '1'ht tirS't tiiing I did•
w;is to rrcompenBe my uri^inul benefneior, tny gusiU:
<.':! ''.''; t•'.in, w)iifliHil Ii. .-h ficst t'barituble to me io
i«y iij:ilreiH, khiri to me in nty beginning, and Jioiu st
til iut: Ht the t•U.'i- !:-iu;.•,<'<i lum all licit nil-' sent Ur
Vie ; I told iiim, ln:it next to liie provuienee of Kca-
-\en, wblch dJSiiosed itil thin{:si it w:is osiiif to hini;
:.;all U.:M it tio*' lav on Rie to rew:u'd htm. vhirh I
<,vn;ii<i do a bundred told : so I iirst returnee to bim
the bundred moidores ?' batl received ofbtm; tcitn £
scut tor a notnry, and c:ni&ed bhn to draw up a gen-
.iTal r.'!r,,:.c or ili:n'h;irL;i' from tho four bundreil nnd
Koventy moiiiores, vbich he l^d acknowled^ed fie
'owed me. in.the fullest and firmest numner iKifafciblc,
After wbicb I Liaised a procuration lo be drawn, em-
•|:owtrin}!: Itim tobe my receiver ol'the annual ;irofjts
<j{'niy plantntion; anil :ilipoinling m\ lmrtner to be-
« ount with him, aru\ make the returns by the usual
fleets to him in my imme ; nud :i ulause in the ru).
bemg a grynt of one Iumdrcd moidores a year to him
•rfuring his life, out of the effl-cU, and fifty moidorefa a
year LU his son after him, for his life: und tbus 1 re-
^nited my old mun.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had tbus put into my hantls; nnd, indeed, 1 had more
-';i';'i' upon my head now th.inl hud in my silent stute
<if life in the Island, where I wanted nothing but what
J fcad, and had nothing but what 1 wanted; wbvree*
J kaU now & great iibarge upw w, aud my
was how to secure it. I had never a cave now to
hide my money in, or a place where it might lie with-
out lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished be-
fore any body would meddle with it; on the contra-
ry, I knew ndt where to put it, or whom to trust with
it. My old patron the captain, indeed, was honest,
and tir.it was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Rrazils seem-
ed to summon me thither; but now I could not tell
how to think of going thither till I had settled my af-
fairs, and left my effects in somc safe hands behind
me. At first 1 thought of my old friend the widow,
who I knew was honest, and would be just to me;
but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
aught I knew, might be in debt; so that, m a word,
I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon tills; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been mv
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose busband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful stew-
ard and instructer. So the first tiling I did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in
London, not only to pay. R bill, but to go find her out,
and carry her in money a bundred pounds from me,
and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty,
by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further
supply: at the same time I sent my two sisters in the
country a bundred pounds each, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one
having been married and left a widow ; and the other
having a busband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and
have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, nat-
nralized to the place ; but I had some little scruple
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
back. However, it was not religion that kept me
from going there for the present; and as I had made
no scruple of being openly of the religion of the eoun-
try all the while I was among them, so neither did I
yet; only that, now and then, having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of
living and dying among them, I began to regret my
having professed myself a I'apist, and thought it might
not be the best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Urazils, but that really I
did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so 1 resolved, at hist, to go to England with it,
where, if I arrived,1 concluded I should make some
acquaintance, or find some Delations that would be
faithful to me ; and accordingly, I prepared to go to
lingland with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first, the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved
to give answers suitable to the just and faithful ac-
count of things I had from thence; and, first, to the
prior of St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks
for their just dealings, and the offer of the eight bun-
dred and seventy-twomoidores which were undisput-
ed of, which I desired might be given, five bundred
to the monastery, and three bundred and seventy-two
lo the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the
good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote
next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all
the acknowledgment that so much justice and hon-
esty called for; as for sending them any present, they
were far above having any occasion for it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works; giving
him Instructions for his future government of my part,
according to the powers I had left with my old pat-
ron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became
tlue to me, till he should hear from me more partar-
idnrlf; assuring Vim that it was my intention not
only to come to Mm, but to settle myself there for
thr remainder of my life. To this 1 added a very
handsome present of some Italian silks' for his wife
and two daughters, for such the captain's son infnrm-
s"sI me hehwl; with two pieces of fine English broad
cloth, the beat I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of
black baize, and some Flanders luce of a good value.
Having tbus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into gix*l hills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way m go to Kuglaiut: I
bud been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to ii;o to England by sea at that
time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet
the difficulty increased upon me sn much. that though
I had once shipped ray baggage in order to go, yet I
altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three
times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunnte by sea,and
this might be one of the reasons; but let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in ea-
srs of such moment: two of the ships which I had
singled out to go in, I mean more pMrticuhtrly sing-
led out than any other, having put my things on
board one of them, and in the other to have agreed
with the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarri-
ed, viz. one was taken by thi; Algerines,and the Oliv-
er was cast away on the Start, neiu. Torbay, and all
the people drowned, except three; so that in either
ot those vessels I had been made miserable.
Having been tbus harrassed in my ihougUts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing,
pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to
go by land to the Garonne, and cross over the Bav of
Hiseay to Hochelle, from whence it was but an easy
:i!!s! safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the
way by land through France. In a word, I was so
prepossessed against my going by sea at »ll, except
from Calais to Hover, that I resolved to travel all
lii.c way by land; which, as I was not in haste, ao*l
did not value the charge, was by much the pteasantcr
May: and to make it more so, my old captain brought
an English gentleman, the son ot a merchant in Lis-
bon, who was willing to travel with me; after which
we picked up two more English merchants also, ami
tao young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to
Paris only; so that in all there were si\ of us, and
five servants; the two merchants and the two Portu-
guese contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save the charge; and as for me,I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides
my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to hi:
capable of supplying the place of a servant on the
road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our
company being very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call (ne captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed was
the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so I shall trouble you now with none of my lanil
journal; but some adventures that happened io us in
this tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some lime ID
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth ob-
serving; but it being the latter part of the summer,
we hastened.away, and set out froni Madrid about
the middle of October; but when we came to the
edge of Navariv, we were alarmed, at several towns
on ihe way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountains, that seve-
I-M! travellers were obliged to come back to Pampc-
luna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard,
to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed; and io me, thut had been always used to -i
hot climate, and to countries where I could scarce
hear any cloihes on, the cold was insufferable: not.
indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to come
but ten days before out of Old Castile,. where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and imme-
diately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains
so .very keen, so severely cold, as to he intolrrab!- s.
and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our fui-
gers and toes.
1'oor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow; and felt cold weath-
er, which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampelu-
nat it continued snowing with so much violence aud
so long that the people said winter was come before
its time ; and the roads, which were difficult before,
were now i;uke impassable; for, in a word, the snow
lay in some places too thick for us to travel, and be-
ing not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern
countries, then: was no going without being in. dan-
ger of being buried alive every si ep. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Vampeluna; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being
better, for it was lhe sevurcst winter all over Europe
that had been known in Ihc memory of man, I pro-
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and
there take shipping for liourdeaux. which was a very
little voyage.
But while I was considering this. there came in
four French gentlemen, who having been stopped on
the French side of the passes, as we were on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the
country near the head of Languedoe, haij brought
them over the mountains by such ways that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; for
where they met with snow i:i any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
hOJ'Ses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he wovdd un-
dertake to carry us the same way with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently
I't protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for, he said.
"1 ion these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot of the moun-
1:iiire, bem!* m:w!e ravenous for want of fond, the
^roufld bring covered with snow. We told him -we
were well enough prepared lor such creatures as they
werej it' he would ensure us from a kind of two leg-
i*ed waives, whieh, we were told, we were- in most
danger from, especially ou the French side ol the
nioantuini*.
Me satisfied us that there was no danger oftluit kind
in the way that we were to go, so we readily agreed
l« follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen,
swlih their servants, somu I-Yench, soreeSpanish, who,
at I said, had attempted to go, and wore obliged to
come 'back again. /
Accordinglv, we set out IVom Pampelunn, with oar
;tuidr, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was
sin'in-ised,-si-hen, instead of goi:ig forward, he came
ilirvetly back aith us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having pass-
ed two rivers, and come into the plain country, -we
found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the
country was pleasant,.and no snow to be seen ; but on a
Midden, turning to his left, he approached the moun-
tain!* auother way ; and though it is true the lulls and
lin-cipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many.
tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding.
wars, that we .insensibly passed the height of the
mountains without being much encumbered with, the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us-the pleas*
iuil and fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascony,
alI green and flourishing, though, indeed, at a great
distance, and we had some rough way to passstilJ.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we
could not-travel i but ha hid us be easy; we should s
soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north thau
Lfcfore; and so, depending upon our guide, we weut
on.
It was about two hours before night, when oar
guide being something before us, and not Justin aiglu,
o-.it rushed three monstrous-wolves, and after ilium a
vui. I. N '2. s'
boar, out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood:
two of the wolves madent the guide, and had he been
far before ns, he would have been devoured before
we could have helped him; one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with
that violt'ce, that he had not time or presence of
mind enough todraw his pistol, but hallooed and cried
•oat to us most lustily. My man Friday being next
me, I bade him ride up, and sec what WHS the matter.
As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he hal-
'looed out as I oud ns the other, "O master! O mas-
ter !" but like a bold fellow, rode directly np to the
poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that at-
tacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having been used to such creatures in
his country, he had no fear upon him, but went close
up to him and shot him, as above; whereas any oth-
er of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I; and, indeed, it alarmed all our-company,
when with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on
both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and
the noise, redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious num.
her of them; and perhaps there was not such a few
as that we had no cause of apprehensions: however,
as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had
;fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and
fled, without doing him any damage, having happily
festened apon his head, where the bosses of the bri-
•die had stuck in his teeth. But the man was most
hurt t for the raging creature had bit him twice, once
in the arm, and the other time a little above his knee;
and though he had made some defence, he was just
as it were tumblingdown by thedisorderofhis horse,
when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
, It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we a|| raemif.d our nace, and rode up as fastM
the way, which was very difficult, would give us leave,
to see what WHS the matter. As soon as we came
clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had
disengaged the poor guide, though we did not pres-
ently discern what kind of creature it was he had
killed.
Hut never was a fight managed so hardily, and i;i
such a surprising manner HS that « ' ich followed be-
tween Friday gnd the boar, vvhicL gave us all, though
stt first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaguiable. As the bear is a heavy
"clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
'who is swift and light. so he Ims two partic'dar i;uali-
lies, which generally are the rule of Ms actions: first,
'as to men, who are not his proper lirey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him,
unless he be excessive bungry, which it is probable
ini^ht now be the c::se, the ground being covered
with snow,) if you do not meddle with him, he will
not meddle with you; but then vou must lake care
to he very civil to him, and givu him the road, for he
is a very nice gentleman; he will not ;ro a step out of
his way for a prinec; nay, if }ouine really afraid,
your best way'is to look another way.and keep going
on; for somer.mes if you- stop and stand still, and look
'steadfastly at bini, he takes it fur an aftVont: but if
'you Ibrow or toss any thiyg at him, and it bits him,
though it were bul a hit of a stick as big as your fin-
ger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other busi-
ness aside to pursue his revenge, and will have saiis-
f.ictiou in point of honour;—this is his first qnidiiy:
the next is, if he be once affronted, he will never !t-:oe
Vou, night nor day, till he hi\s his revenge, hut t'i;l-
lows at a good round rate till he overtakes vou.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off Cioui his
liurse, for the man was both burt and tVightein-ii,
when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of I!H-
wood, and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by
"far ibut ever I SUM. We were all a little surprised M hen
we saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was e*y
to see joy and ciiurage in theft-How's countenance:
"O, O, O '." says Friday, three times pointing to him;
's O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand
with him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased:
"You fool," says I, "he will e:it yon up."—
"Eatee me up! catee me up!" s iys Friday twice
orcr again; "me eatce him up; me makee yon
good laugh; you all stuy here, me show you good
'langh." So down he sits, and gets oft' his boots in a
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the
flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),
gives my other servant his horse, and with bis gun
away he flew, soift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and ofTered li»
meddle with noliudy, till Friday coming pretty near,
talk to him, as if Ihe bear could understand hb-.
"Hark ye, hi,rk ye," says Friday, " me speakee with
you." \Ve followed at a distance, for now being
come down on the Gaflcony side of the mountain*, we
were entered a vast forest, where the countrv was
plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it
scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up wjth him quickly,
and takes up a great stone and throws it at him, and
hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm
than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it answer-
ed Friday's end, for the i\r.;ue was so void of fear thi:t
he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and
show us Rome laugh, as he called it. As soon as the
bear felt the blow, and saw him he turns about, and
comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and
sbuffling on at a strange rate, so as would have put a
horse to a middling gallop: away runs Friday, and
takes his course as if he run towards us for help; so
we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and do
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily
for bringing the bear back upon us, when he was go-
ing aliout his own business another way: and especial-
ly I was angry that he had turned the bear up-

on in, tmd then run away; and I calleij out, "Yon
dog, is this your making us laugh? Come away, iun I
take your horse, that we may shoot the creatun-."
Me heard me und cried out, "No shoot, no shoot;
i-tand slill, :m.l you get much laugh:" and as the nim-
ble creature ran two feet tor the bear's one, he tun:-
eil on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a gre«l
oak tree tit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to fnl-
; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the
e, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about
five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. Tlu:
iear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a dis-
tance: the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
Bmelled to it, but let it lie, and ali he scrambles intn
tin; tree, climbing like a eat, though so monstrous
heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of
my man, and could not for my ike see any thing to
laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we
all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday grvt
out to the small end of a large branch, and the brar
got about half way to him. As soon as the bear got
out to that part where the limb of the tree was weak-
er,—" Ha!" says he to us, " now you see me teachce
the bear dancer' so he fails a jumping and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, nnd began to look behind him, to sec how
he should get buck: then, indeed,ue did laugh hear-
tily. Hut Friday had not done with him by a great
de:d; when seeing him stand slill, he calls out to him
again, as if he had supposed the bear coukl sprak
English, "What,you come no farther? pray you
come fari.her;" so he left jumping and shaking the
tree; and the bear.just as if he understood what he
said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again. We thought now
was a good time to knock him in the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the hear:
hut he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O piny! no
shoot, me shoot by and then:" he would have said
b) and by. However, to shorten the story, Friday
ilanced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that
we had laughing enough, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off"; and we found
the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fust with his great broad claw s and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, aod
what the jest would beat last. Hut Friday pat us
out of doubt quickly: for seeing the hear i 1 ing fast io
the bough, and that he would not be persuaJed to
come any farther, '' Well, well," says Frtday, you no
come farther, me po: you no come to me, me
come to you:" and upon this he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bvnd wit if
his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet, and awav he runs to his gun, takes
ii up, and stands still. "\Vell," said I to him, " Fri-
day, what will you i!o now? Why don't you shoot
him ?"—" No shoot," says Friday, " no yet; me shoot
now, me no kill; me stay, give A on one more laugh:"
and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
from the bough where'he luxxl, but did it mighty cau-
tiously, looking behind him every step, and coming
backward till he got into the body of the tree; thru
with the same hinder cud foremost, he came doan
the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one
foot at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and
just before he could set his hind foot on the ;.; v
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle
of his ptece into hls ear, and shot him dead.- '1 ht•u
the rogue turned about to see if we did not taugh;
and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, im
f;dls a laughing himself very loud. "So we kill licar
In my country," says Friday. "So you kill Them:"
Miys I, " why, you have no guns."—'' No," says In-,
'' no gun, but shoot great much long arrow." This
w;ts a good diversion to us.; but wr were slill in n wild
place, and our guide very much hort,, ami. ulioi tu &
we hardly knew: the howling of wolves ran much in
Tny head ; and, indeed, except the noise I once bean!
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that filled me
with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
oIT, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth .saving; but we had near
three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so
we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with smow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and
the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed
^by bunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
•lenl of mischief in the villages, where they surprised
the country people, killed a great many of their sheep
and horses, and some people too. We had one dan-
gerous place to pass, which our guide told us if there
were more wolves in the country we should find them
there; and this was a small plain, surrounded with
woods one very side, and a long narrow defile, or lane,
which we were to pass to get through the wood, and
then we should come to the village where we were
to lodge. It was within half an hour of sunset when
we entered the first wood, and a little after sunset
when we came into the plain; we met with nothing
in the first wood, except that in a little plain within
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we
saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one
after another, as if they had been in chase of some
prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us,
and were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon
this our guide, who by the way was but a faint-heart-
ed fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he be-
lieved there were more wolves a coming. \Ve kept
our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw
no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a league, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion
enough to look about us: the first object wertkt Mirh
TMIS a dead horse. thai ib to Miy, :i poor horse which
iho wolves hud killed, and at least a dozen of them at
work, ire could not say eating of him, but picking ot'
his bones rather; for they hud eaten up all the fltsh
Itt:fttre. We did not think fit In disturb theni at their
lV:t?t, nekhertlid they t:tke much notice of IK. Frk!ar
would have let fly at them, but I'wooltl not suffer
him by any means; for I (omul we weie like to hove
more business upon cur Lands th.sn we uere aware
•;f. \Ve were not gone half over the plain, \vhcn we
bi';J:m to lu-nr the wolves howl in tht- wood on our left
iii :i frightful msnuiT, and prestntly .nftiT \ve saw :t-
i.:ml a bundred coming on directly towui\l* cs, all in
tt Ixttiv, aim most of them in u line, irs regularly HS an
aitny drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce
'....s-.. in \vhnt nisiumv to receive thcoi, Imt tbtini!, ii.1
*:raw onrtcives in a close line was the only way; so
v .- formed in a moident: buttbut we might uot luire
too much interval, I ordered that only eiery ctfu-r
umn should fire, :tnd tlnit the others uho bud not5rctl
s!loidd stand ready to give them a second \oltey iiu-
mcdi-!lcly, if they continued to Hdvaaccupon us; und
, I'i-i i that those uho had fired Ht first shoulil not preteiid
Hi load their fusees again, but stand ready, every one
witU a pistol, for we were ail armed with a fusee and a
pnir of pistols each man ; so w e were, by this mt'thod,
able to fire six volley s, half of us at a lime; however,
at present -.ve hud no nect-ssity; for upon firing the
lirst volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrifi-
ed as well with the noise as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in Uie head, dropped ; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by
the snow. I found they stopped, but did not imme-
diately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had
hevn toh; that the fiercest creatures were terrified at
Ute voice of a man, I caused all the company to hal-
liio as loud as we could; and I found the rwitiou not
ui'io£t-thi r mistaken; for upon our shout they began
ion.-i.iv. and turn about. I then ordered a secoml
*•&; t-j Lu iu-ed u their rear, which put them Utlhc
Irallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave
us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going: but we had Imt
little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves
in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
vame wood on our left, only that it was farther ou-
\vard, the snme way we were to go.'
The night was coming on, and the light began \o
be i!u: L;,, which made it worse on our side; but the
noise increasing, we could easily perrchc that it was
the bowling and yelling of those hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops
of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in
our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded wiih
them: however as they did not fall upon us, we kept
mir way forward, as fast as we could make our horses
£O, which, the way being very rough, was only agood
hard trot. In this manner we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass,
nt the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when coming nearer the iane or pass, we
saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the
entrance. On a sudden, at another opening of the
wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on
him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen
wolves alter him full speed ; indeed the horse hnd
the heels of them, but as we supposed that he could
nut bold it at that rate, we doubted not but they'
would gut up with him at last; no question but they
diJ.
15ut here we had a most horrible sight: for, riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, wo
found the carcasses of another horse and of two men,
devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the
men was no doubt the same whom we heard Ere the
gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as
to the man, bis head and the upper part of his body
were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we
knew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
tolt ed us soon, for they gathered about us presently,
H
in holies of prey; and I verily believe there were hnn-
ilred of them. It happened very much to our ad-
vantage, tlmt at the entrance into the wood, but a tit;
tie way from it, there lay aome large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, am! I
suppose lay there for carriage. I drew mr little
troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in v
a line behind one long tree, I advised them all to a-
light, and keepingthat tree before us for a breastwork,
to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing oar
horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well we
did; for never was a more furious charge than the
•t-eatures made upon us in this place. They came
on with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork,
as if they were only rushing upon their prey; ami
this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasion-
ed by their seeing our horses behind us. I ordert.it
our men to fire HS before, every other man; and they
took their aim so sure, that they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was u necessity
to keep a continual firing, for they came on like du-
vils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had find a second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for oihers
came forward again; so we fired two volleys of oui'
pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed **
twice us many, yet they came on again. I was lonlh
to spend our shot too hastily ; so I called my servant,
not my man Friday, for he was belter employed, for,
with the greatest d'exterity imaginable, he had charg-
ed my fnsee and his own while we were engaged;
but, as I said. I called my other man, and giving him
a horn of powder, I bade him Iny a train ail along thn
piece of timber, and let it be a large train. tie did so;
and had but just time to get away, when the wulvca
came up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snap-
ping an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on
»re: those that were upon the timber were scorched

nith it, nml six or seven of them ft-ll, or rather jump-
ex I in among us, with the force and fright of the fire;
wo dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were
so frightened with the light, which the night, tor it
was now very near dark, mnde more terrihle, that
they drew hack a liule; upon which I ordered our
last lminis to be fired oft' in one volley, and after that
we gave a shout: upon this the wolves turned ts\r'>
and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell
a cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation; for the crying and howling they made
was better understood by their fellows; so that they
all fled and left us,
We had, first und last, killed about threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being tbus cleared. we
Tuiulo forward ag:tin, for we had still near a league to
go. We heard the ravenous cieatures howl and yell
in the woods us we went, several times, and some-
times we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow
ilazzling our eyes, we were not certain: in about an
hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and nil in
Anns; for, it seems, the night before, the wolves anl
some bears had broke into the village, and put them
in such terror that they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in ihe night, to preserve
.their cattle, and, indeed, their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs swelled so nmth with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther: so we were
obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Ton-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor any
thing like them: but when we told our story at Tou-
louse, they told us it was nothing but what was ordi-
nary in the great forest at the font nf the mountains,
especially when the snow hiy on the ground: but
thev inquired much what kind of a guide we had got,
who would venture to bring us that wny in such a .*:-
vere season; and told it was surprising we were not
all devoured. When we told them how we placed
ourselves, and the horses in the miihlle, they blamed
us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we
had been all destroyed; fur it was the. sight of the
dorses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
prey; and that, at other times, they are really afraid
of a gun; but being excessive hongry, and raging on
that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger; and that if we had
not, by the continued lire, and at hist by the strata-
gem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still oR
horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not
have taken the horses so much tor theirowu, when men
were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal thev tuM
us, that at last, if we had stood all together, and leftour
horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them that we might have come off safe, espe-
cially having our fire-arms in our hands, and being
vo many in number. For my part I was never so
sensible of danger in my life; for seeing above three
hondred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to
vlevour us, and having nothing to shelter us or relrcat
to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as it was, I he-
lieve I shuH never care to cross those mountatn- a-
gain; 1 think I would much rather go a thousnul
leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with >
storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in mj
passage through France, nothing but what other trav-
ellers have given an account of with much more ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to
Paris, and without.any considerable stay came to Ca-
lais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January,
after having a severe cold season to travel in.
I wus now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe
about me; the bills of exchange which 1 brought
with me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the mon-
ey 1 had sent her, thought no pains too much, nor
care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted he;"
so entirely with every thing that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I wa*
very happy from the beginning, and now to the end,
in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now having resolved to dispose of my planta-
tion in the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lis-
bon; who having offered it to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils,
they accepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three
thousand pieces-of-eight to a correspondent of theirs
at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for 32,-
800 pieces-of-eight for the estate; reserving the pay-
ment of 100 moid ores a year to him (the old man)
<luring his life, and 50 moldores afterwards to his son
fnr his life, which I hud promised them; and which
the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge.
And tbus I have given the first part of a life of for-
tune and adventure, a life of Providence's chequer-
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom
be able to show the like of: beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of U ever
gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, I was past running any more ha-
zards, and so indeed I hart been, if other circumstan-
ces had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations ; nor, howev-
er rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; amI
though L had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could
not keep that country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be upon the wing again; especially I
could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in be-
ing there, My true friend, the widow, earnestly d»-
hiutdett me from it, and so far prevailed with me, rtmt,
for almost inveit ysan,, she prcvcnlef! my running
:Jini;ul; during vvhich time I took my two nephew*!
the children of one of my brothers, into my care : the
eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a
gentleman, and gave h'nu :t settlement of some addi-
tion to his estate, after my decease. The olberl
put out to a captsih of A ship: and alter five yean,
finding him u sensible, bold, enterprising young Iel-
low, \ put him inl« a good ship, ai.il sent him to kca:
smd itils youn!; fellow uftecwarda drew me in, as old
hs I was, to farchor advtnLio'es myself.
In the mean time, I in part sellUd myself here;
for first of ull, I married, and that not either to mv
disadvantage or ihssntisfaction, and had threech'ihh vti,
t .vo sons and wie daughter; but my \tiie ,!', i:.'',.,.,:
my nephew coming home vtih gond succesS from *
voyage to Spain, uiy inolinaiiou to go abroad, aud his
importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
sUip as a privnte trader U; the Kast ItnKcS: this ''...*
iu the year IC.94.
In tltis voyage 1 visited my new colony in the b-
land, saw my s•accessofs l!ie Spaniards, had the whole
story of lht:ir lives, and of the villains I left there, how
at first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they
nfterwurds agrerd, disagreed, united, separated, awl
how al last the Spaniards were obliged tnuhc violence
vaththem; how they were subjected to the Span-
iards; how honestly the Spaniards used them; a his-
tory, if it were entered into, as full of variety aiul
VDiulerful accidents a§ my own part: particulurli
also us to their battles with the Carribbeans, who
hinded several times upon the island, tmda&tothe
improvement they made upon the island itself; utul
how five of them made an attempt upon the muu
land, and brought awuy eleven men and five women
prisoners; by which, at my coming, I found uboui
twenty youug children on the island.
Mere I stayed about twenty duys; left them tu;i-
pliea of all necessary tiiings, and particularly ofnrnii,
powder, sho;, clotUea, tools, and two wwka."en, wLwU
I brought from England with me; viz. a carpel'.tor
and H smith.
Hesi!les this. I shared the lands into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of tht; whole,
hut gave them such parts respectively as they agreed
i;iu and, having settled all things with them, and en-
gaged them nni to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence 1 touched at the IJrazils, from whence
I sent :. bark, which I bought there,with more peo-
ple, to the ishmd; and in it, besides other supplies,
I sent seven women, being such as 1 found proper
for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the Knglishmen, I promised them to send them
some women IVom Kngland, with a good car^o of ne-
cessaries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
i-. Iiii h 1 afterwards could not perform. The fellows
proved very honest und diligent, after they were mas-
tered, and "had their properties set apart for them.
1 sent them ako from the Brazils five cows, three of
them being btg uith calf, some sheep, and some hogs,
which, when i came again, were considerably iu»
creased. ¥
IJut aft these things, with an account how three
hundred Carihbces came and in\aded them, and ruin-
eil their plantations, :ind bow they fought aith that
whole number twice, and were m first defeated tmd
one of them killed . but at hist a storm destroying
their enemies' canaes, they famished or destroyed
umost a!i the rest, and renewed and recovered the pos-
session of their plantation, and still lived upou the
island.
All these things, with some very surprisinginci-
c'ents in some new adventures of my own, for teu
years more, I shall give a further account of in aaulh-
ir volume.
XKB or TOJ.. i.
'.
AND ADVENTURES
OF:
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
WITH iV ACCOUNT OF
HIS TRAVELS ROTTND THREE
OF THE GLOBE,
WRITTEN BY HIMSELi'.
IS TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
EXETER:
PUBLISHED BY ABEL BROWA-
1828.
P. HOHIlIS. I'UISTIiTl.
LIFE
swr
DANIEL DE TOE-
DANIEL DE FOE was descended from a respect-
able family in the county Of Northampton, and born
in London, about the year 1663. His father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish oPSt. Giles's, Oili-
plegate, and H protestant dissenter. Why the sub-
ject of this memoir prefixed the Deto his family name
uannot now be ascertained, nor ilid he at any period
of his life thi.ik it necessary to give his reasons to the
public. The political scribblers of the day, however,
thought proper to remedy this'lack of information, and
accused him ofpossessing so little of the amor patriot,.
as to make the addition m order tt\a[ he might noi be
taken for an Englishman; though this idea could huve
had no other foundation than the circumstance of his
having. in consequence of his zeal for king William,
attacked the prejudices of his countrymen in his
"True-born Englishman."
After receiving a,good education at an academy ^t
Newington, young De Foe, before he had attained his
twenty-first year, commenced his career as an author,
by writing a pamphlet against a very prevailing senti-
ment in favour of the Turks, who were at that time
Jaying siege to Vienna. This production, being very
inferior to those of his maturer years, was very little
read, and the indignant author, despairing of success
with his pen, had recourse to the sword ; 'or, as he ter-
med it, when boasting of the exploit his later years.
'displayed his atUchmcnt to liberty and protestantism,
by joining the ill-advised insurrection under the duke
of Monmouth, in the west. On the failure of that un-
fortunate enterprise, he returned again to the metrop-
olis : and it is not improbable, but ttuit the circumstance
of his being a native of London, and his person not
much known in that part ot' the kingdom where the
rebellion took place, might facilitate his escape, and
be the means of preventing his being brought to trial
for bis share in the transaction. With die professions
of a writer and a soldier, Mr. De Foe, in the year
1B85, joined that of a trader ; he was first engaged cs
a hosier, in Cornhill, and afterwards as a maker of
tricks and pantiles, near Tilbury Fort, in Essex; but,
in consequence of spending those hours in the hilarity
of the tavern which be ought to have employed in the
calculations of the counting house, his commercial
schemes proved unsuccessful; and in 1694 he was
ob.i^ed to abscond from his creditors, not tailing to
attribute those misfortunes to the war and the severity
of the times, which were doubtless owing to his own
misconduct. It ie much to his credit, however, that
after having been freed from hisdebts bv composiuon,
and being in prosperous circumstances from King
William's favour, he voluntarily paid most of his cred-
itors both the principal and interest of their claims.
This is such mi example of honesty as it would be un-
juit to De Foe and to the world to conceal. The
amount of the sums tbus paid must have been very
considerable, as he afterwards feelingly mentions to
Lo:\! rlaversham. who had reproached him with cov-
etuusness; "\S'ith a numerous family, and no helps
bnt my own industry, I hi\ve forced my way through
a S!'a of misfortunes, and reduced my debts, exclusive
of composition, from seventeen thousand to less iV.ti
five thousand pounds"
At the beginning of the ycar 17I10, Mr. De Foe
published a satire in verse, whit-h excited very consid-
erable attention, called "the Trucbora Englishman."
Its pui-pose was to fm-uHi a reply to those who s ere
continually abus'n^ King William and some of his
friends ^foreigners, by shewing that the present race
of Englishmen was a rained snd heterogeneous brood,
scnrefly ttff of which could lav claim to native purity
of blood. The satire WHS in many parts very severe;
ant! though it gave high offence, it claimed a consider-
able share of the public attention. The reader will
perhaps be gratified by a specimen of this production,
wherein he endeavours to account for—
"What makes this disco: tented land appear
Less hap;'v now in times of peace., than war;
Why civil fends disturb the nation more,
Than all our bloody wars had ilone before:
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
Anvl men are always honest in disgrace;
The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they, who would be in them, would be worse.
'Tis not sit foreigners that we repine,
Would foreigner* their perquisites resign:
The grsnd contention's plainly to be seen,
To get sorre men put out, and some put in."
It will be immediately perceived that De Foe could
have no pretensions to the character ofapoet; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervous and well-ver-
sified Iines, aud in choice of subject and moral he is in
general excellent . The Trueborn Englishman con-
cludes thos:
Could but car ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see•their offspring thys degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
Am! buiid on (.heir past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And npen!j disown the vile degenerate race.
For fame Af families is all a cheat;
"TlS FXRSOKAL V1HTBK oITIY JIAKX• US CHEAT.
For this dfefence of foreigners I)e Foe was amply
rewarded by King William, who not only ordered him
a pension, but as his opponents denominated it, ap-
pointed him pamphlet-writer general to tte court; an
office for which he was peculiarly well calei luted, pos-
sessing, with a strong mind and a ready wit, that kind
of yielding conscience which allowen him to support
the measures of his benefactors, though convinced they
were'injurious to his country. De Foe now
to Newington with his family,and fora short time
fived at ease; but the death of hia royal patron depri-
ved him of a generous protector, and opened a scene
of sorrow which probably embittered his future life.
He had always discovered a great inclination to en-
gage in religious controversy, and the furious- contest,.
eivil and ecclesiastical, which ensued on the accession
nt'Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity of gratifying
his favourite passion. He therefore published a tract*
entitled "-The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, or
Proposals for the Establishmentofthe Cburch," which
contained an ironical recommendation of persecution,
but written in so serious a strain, that many persons,
particularly Dissenters, at first mistook its real inten-
tion. The high cburoh party, however, saw and full the
ridicule, and by their influence, a prosecution was
commenced against him,and a proclamation published
in the Gazette, offering a reward for his apprehension.*
When De Foe found with how much rigour himself.
and his pamphlet were about to be treated, he at first
secreted himself; but his printer and bookseller being;
taken into custody, he surrendered, being resolved,
"St James's, January 10,1702-3.
*" Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe,is chargeil:
with writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, en-
titled " Tlte Shortest Way with the Dissenters : "he
is a middle-sized spare man, about 40 years old, of a
brown complexion, and dark brown coloured hair, bat
wears a wig, a hooked nose, a sharp ehin, grey eyes,
and n large mould near his moutii, was born in London,
and for muny years »as a hose-factor, iit Freeman's
Yard, in Comhill, and now is owner of the-brick end
pantile works near Tilbury Fott, in Essex: whoever
shaM discover the sail? llanel.De Foe, to one of her-
Majij.sty'3 Principal Secretaries of State, or any of her
M:j-sty's Justices of I'eace, so as he may be apprehen-
dt-i!, slnll have a reward of 50/. which her Majesty
has ordered immediately to be paid upon such dis-
covery."
'Lmulin (/!.';. No. 3879.
LIFE OF EKE FOE. 7i
asheeipressed it," to throw himself upon the favour.
of government,ratter than that others should be ruin-
ed for his mistakes." In Jnly, 1703, be w.as brought
to trial, found guilty, and sentenced to he imprison-
ed, to stand in the pillory, and to pay a ftne of two
bundred marks. He underwent the infamous.part ot'i
the punishment with great fortitude, and it seems to
have been generally thought that he was-treated with
unreasonable severity. So far was he from being asha-
med of his fate himself, that he wrote a l!\mn to the
pillory, which tbus ends, alluding to his accusers;
Tell them, the men that p'.ae'd him here
Are scandals to the times;
Are at a loss to find his guilt)
And can't commit his .crimes.
Pope, who has. thought:fit to. introduce him in bis;
Dunciad (probably from no other reason than party
difference) characterises him in the following line:
Earless on high stood unabash'd De Foe.
This is one of those instances of injustice and malip;-.
aity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and;.
which re8ect more dishonour on the author than on,
the parties traduced. De F.oe lay friendless and dis-.
tressed in Newgate, h;s Family ruined, and himself,
without hopes of deliverance, till Sir. Robert Marley^.
who approved of liis principle?, and foresaw that dn-.
ring a factious age such a genins could be converted.
to many uses, represented his unmerited sufferings
to the Qut-en, and at length procured his release.
The treasurer, Lord (SoitidphiB, also sent a consider-,
able smji to his wife and family, and to him money to
pay his-fine and the expense of his discharge. Gratis
tude and fidelitv are inseparable from an honest man;
and it was this benevolent act that prompted De Foe
to support I lurler, with his able and ingenious pen,
when Anne lay lifeless, and his benefactor in the \i-
e;ssitude of parly was persecuted by faction and ovet
po.wt-red. though not conquered, by violence.
The tiler.ts and perseverence of De Foe began no
i» be propei'lv estimated, and, us a Srra suppurter
i
y
the administration, he was sent by Ixird Oodolphin
to Scotland, on an errand which, as he says, was far
from being unfit for a sovereign to direct, or an hon-
est man to perform. His knowledge of commerce
and revenue, his powers of insinuation, and above all
his readiness of pen, were deemed of no small utilitv,
in promoting the union of the two kingdoms; of vrhii'h
he wrote an able historj in 1709, with two dedications,
one to the Queen, and another to the Duke ofQueens-
bury. Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some
equivocal writings, rendered himself suspected by
both parties, so that he once more retired to Newing-
ton in hopes of spending the remainder of his days in
peace. His pension being withdrawn, and wearied
with polities, he began to compose works of a different
kind—The yenr 1715 may therefore be regarded as
the period of De Foe's political lif.-. Faction henceforth
found other advocates, and parties procured other
writers to disseminate their suggestions, and to pro-
pagnte their falsehoods.
In 1715 De Foe published the "Family Instructor;"
A work inculcating the domestic duties in a lively man-
ner, by narration and dialogue, and displaying much
knowledge of life in the middle ranks of society. "Ile-
ligiouB Courtship" also appeared soon after, which,
like the "Family Instructor," is eminently religious
and morsl in its tendency, and strongly impresses on
the mind that spirit of sobriety and private devotion
for which the dissenters have generally been distin-
guished. The most celebrated of all his works, "The
Life and Adventures of Hobinson Crusoe,'' appeared
In 1719. This work has passcd through numerous
editions, and been translated into almost all modern
languages. The great invention which is displayed in
it, the variety of incidents and circumstances which
it contains, related in the most easy and natural man-
cr, together with the excellency of the moral and reli-
gious reflections, rendered it a pcrfbrtmmce of very
1 tperior and uncommon merit, and one of the most in-
teresting works that ever appeared. It is strongly re-
commended by Rosseau,as a book admirably calenln-
sd te promote the purposci of natural education; &ai!
Dr. Blair says," No fiction hi any language, was ever
letter supported than the Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appearance
of truth and simplicity, which takes a strong hold of
tin: imagination of all readers, it suggests, at the same
time, very useful instruction; by shewing how much
sthe native poweiVofman may be exerted for sur-
mounting the difficulties of any external situation."
It has been pretended, that Be Foe surreptitiously
appropriated the papers of Alexander Selkirk, a-
Scotch mariner, who lived four years alone on the
island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of whose story
had before appeared in the voyage of Captain Woodes
Rogers. But this charge, though repeatedly and con-
fidently brought, appears to be totally destitute of any
foundation. De Foe probably took some general hints
for his work from the story of Selkirk, but there ex-
ists no proof whatever, nor is it reasonable to suppose
that he possessed any of his papers or memoirs, which
had been published seven years before the appear-
ance of Robinson Crusoe. As a farther proof of l)e
Foe's innocence, Captain Rogerfi's account of Selkirk.
may be produced, in which it is said that the latter
had ueitiw!r(prescrved pen, ink, or paper, and had inn
great measure lost his language; consequently De
Foe could r,ot have received any written assistance,
and we have only the assertion of his enemies to peeve
that he had any verbal.
The great success ofRoBinson Crusoe induced its
author to write a nnmber of other lives and adven-
tures, some of which were popular in their times,
though at present nearly forgotten. One of his lau-it
publications was "A Tour through the Island of
Great Britain,"". a performance of very uiferior mer-
it-: but De Foe woe now the garrulous- old man, and
his spirit (to use the words of an ingenious biographer)
"like a candle struggling in the socket, blazed and
sunk, blazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length m
total darkness." His laborious and unfortunate fife
was fuiished on the 26th of April, 1731, in the parish
of St. Giles's, Cripplegate.
Danel Defoe possessed very extraordinary talents;
VOL. i. A a
iis a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled to stand
Sn the foremost rank among his contemporaries, what-
ever may be their performances or their fame. His
sdistinguished characteristies arc originality, spu'it, and
a profound knowledge of Ma subject, and in these
particulars he has seldom been surpassed. As the
.author of Robinson Crusoe, he has u claim not only to
the admiration, but to the gratitude of his country-
men; and so long as we have a regard for superemi-
nent merit, and take an interest in the welfare of the
rising generation, that gratitude will not cease to exist.
But the opinon of the learned and ingenious Dr. Beat-
tie will be the best euloginm that can be pronounced on
that celebrated romance: "Robinsou Crusoe," says the
'Doctor, " must be allowed by the most rigid moralist
to be one of those novels which one may read, not only
with pleasure, but also with profit. Itbreathesthrough-
sout•i spirit of piety and benevolence; it sets in a very
ssticking light the importance of th? mechanic arts,
which they, who know not what it is to he without
YUem, areso apt to undervalue; it fixes in the mind a
'lively idea of the horrors of solitude, and, consequentlv,
-of the sweets of social life, and of the blessings we tle-
owe from conversation and mutual aid; and it shows
lajw,by labouring with one's own hands, one may se-
cure independence,aud open for one's self many sour-
ces of health and amusement." I airree, therefore,
with Rosscau, that it is one nf the best books that can
he put into the hands of children."
LIFE AND ABVENTURES
•v
ROBINSON CIUTSOE,
V WAS born in the year 1632, in the city ofYorK,
of a pood family, though sot of that country, my
father being H foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull : he (iot a good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, end from whom I was called Robinson
Kruutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in
Kngland, we are now called, nay we call oursclvesr
and write our name Crusoe, and so my companions
always called me.
I Imd two elder brothers, one of whom \vaa lien-
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flan-
ders, fe erly commanded by the famous Colonel
Lockha and w as killed at the battle near Dunkirk
agninst :Spaniards. What became of my second'
brother never knew, any more than my father or
mother ilid know what was become of me.
Being;4he third sou of the family, and not bred
10 "ny dw'e, my head began to be filled very early
with mtaUling thoughts: ts-f father, who was very an'
t';'i!t, ii..r given• ma a-uotuautent share of Uan.ing, as
fir as house education and a country free-school gen-
erally go, and designed me for the law; but I would
he satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my in-
clination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands of my father, and against all the
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to he something fatal in
that propension of nature tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me seri-
ous and excellent counsel against what he foresaw
sWas my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and ex-
postulated very warmly with me upon this subject:
he asked me what reason more than a mere wander-
ing inclination I had for leaving my father's house and
my native country, where I might be well introduced,
and had a prospect of raising my fortune by applica-
tion and industrv, with a life of ease and pleasure.
He told'me it was for men of desperate fortunes on.
one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the oth-
er, who went abroad upon adventures, tn rise by
enterprise, and'make themselves famous in undertak-
ings of a nature out of the common road; that these
tilings were all either too far above me, or too far
telow me; that mine was the middle state, or what
might be called the upper station of lo~u> life, which
he had found by long experience waa-the best state
m the world, the most suited to buman happiness, not
opposed to the miseries and'hardships, the labours
and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and
not embarrassed'with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy ef the upper part of mankind. He told me I
might judge of the happiness of this state by one
thing, viz. that (his was the state of life which all
otfier people envied; that tings have frequently la-
mented the miserable consequences of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed in the
middle of the two extremes, between the mean and
the great; that the wise man gave his testirnony to
this as the just standard of true felicity, when'He pray-
ed ta have neither poverty nor riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the up-
per and lower part of mankind; but that the middle
station had the fewest disasters, and was not expos-
ed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part
of mankind; nay, they were not subjected to so many
distempers, and uneasinesses, either of body or mind,
as those were, who by vicious living, luxury and ex-
travaganceSi on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the oth-
er handi bring distempers upon themselves by the
natural consequences of iheir way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of vir-
tues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that
temperance, moderation, quietness-, health, society, all-
agreeable diversion^ and all desirable pleasures,
were the blessings attending the middle station of
life; that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and comfortably out of it, not em-
barrassed with the labours of the hands or of the head,
nor sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or har-
rassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the
soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with
the passion of envy, or secret buroinglust of ambition
for great things; but in easy circumstances sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the
sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling that they
are happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to ptey the young man,
not to precipitate myself into miseries which nature
and the station of life I was barn in seemed to have
provided against; that I was under no necessity of
seeking my bread; that he would do well for me,
and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of
life which he had been just recommending to me;
and that if I was not very easy and happy in the
world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must hin-
der it, and that he should have nothing to answer for,.
Having tbus discharged his duty m warning me against
s.
measures which he knew would he to my hurt: in a ./
word, that as he would do very kind things for 'me'-
if I would stay and settle at home as he directed, so
he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes,
as to give me any encouragement to go away : and
to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an
example, to whom he had used the same earnest per-
suasions to keep him from going into the Low Coun-
try wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; aud though he said he would not cease to pray
for me, yet he would venture to say to me, thatiti did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and
I would have leisure hereafter to re8ect upon having
neglected his coupset when there might be none to
assist in my recotei'y.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
»as truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did
not know it to be so himself; I say, 1 observed the
tears run down his face very plentifully, and especial-
ly when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and
that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent,
and none to assist me, he was so moved, that he broke
off the discourse, and told me, his heart was so fult
he could say no more to me.
I was sincerelv affected with this discourse, as in-
deed who could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father's desire. But alas! a few
days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of
ray father's further importunities, in a few weeks af-
ter I resolved to run quite away from him. Howev-
er, I did not act so hastily neither as my first heat of
resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time
s when 1 thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her, that my thoughts were so entirely bent
upon seeing the world, that I should never settle to
any thing with resolution enough to go through with
it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go appren-
tice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney i that I. *aa
sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time, and
1 should certainly ran away from my master before
my time was out, and go to sea ; and if she would
SjH-ak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad,
if t came dome again. and did not like it, 1 would go
nomore,und I would promise by a double diligence
to recover that time I had lost.
This ]iut my mother into a grrat passion: she told
me, she knew it would he to no purpose to speak to
luy father upon any such suhjrct ; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any
such thing so much for my burt; and that she won-
dered how I could think of any such thini; after such
a discourse as I had had with my father, and such
kind and tender expressious as she knew my father
had used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin
myself, there was no help far me; but I might de-
pend 1 ahonhl never hare tnw consent to it: that for
her part she would not have' so much hand in my
destruction ; and I should never have it to say, that
my mother was wi'.ling when my father \vas not.
Though my mother refused to movil to my fath-
er, yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported nil
the discourse to him, and that my fUtlier. after show-
ing a great concern at it, said to her wilh a sigh,
i' That buy might he happv if he would stay nt home;
hat if he goes abroad, he will he the most miserable
wretch that was ever born; 1 can give no consent to
i.."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though, in the meantime, I continued obsti-
nately deat'to all proposals of settling to business, and
frequently expostulating with my father and mother
nbnut their being 80 positively determined against
M<iat they knew my inclination prompted me to.
Bnt bem£ one day at Hull, where I went casually, and
without any purpose of makiagan elopement at that
timest but, I suy, being there, m:d one of my compan-
ions then going by sea to Ixmdon, in his father's
ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the
common allurement of seafaring men, viz. that it
should rost me cotlung for ray passage, I consnltei!
neither father or mother any more, nor so much s^
sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it
as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
lather's, without any consideration of circumstances or
-consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the
•first of September, 1651, I \rent on board a ship
hound for London. Never any young adventurer's
misfortunes,.! believe, began sooner, or continued lon-
ger than mine. The ship v as no sooner gotten out
'of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I
had never been a; sea before, 1 was most inexpres-
sibly sick in body, and terrified in mind. 1 began
now seriously to reflect npon what I had done, and
bow justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heav-
en for wickedly leaving my father's house, and
'abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of my pa-
rents, my father's tears and my mother's entreaties,
eame now fresh into my mind: and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to
Uhich, it has been since, reproached me with the con-
tempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God
-and my father.
AII this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after: but it
was enough to affect me then, who was but a joung
suitor, and had never known any thing of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never
rise more; and in tins agony of mind I made many
Tows aud resolutions, that if it would please God here
to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once my
foot upon Jry laud again, I would godirectlv home to
my father, and never set it into a ship again while I
lived; that I would take his advice, and never run
myself int'i-such miseries as these any more. Now
1 saw plainly the goodness of his observations about
the middle station of life, how easy, how comfor-
tably he had lived all his days, aud never had been
exposed to tempests at ses, or trouble! on shore:
and I resolved that 1 would, like a true repenting pro-
digal, go h'ome to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued dur-
ing the storm, and indeed Bome timr after;
but the next ilay as the wind was sibatpi!,in,l the
sen calmer, I hegan tobe a tiule inured to it:
however, I s as very grave for all that day. being
also still a little n-B-sick ; but Inwards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was qiote over, and a
chnrming fine evening followed; the sun went down
perfectly clear, and rose ao the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sex, the Stm
shining upon it, th» sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more
Sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking with won.
der upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the
day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant
in a little time after. And now, lest my good res-
olutions should continue, my companion, who had in-
deed enticed me away, came to me and said: " Well,
Hob," (clapping me upon the shoulder) "how do
you do after it? I warrant you were frighted, wa'n'i
you, last night, when it blcv but a capful of wind?'"
—" A capful do you call it i" said 1; "it was a ter-
rible storm."—" A storm, you fool you," replied he,
"do you call that a atorio ? why it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we think
nothmg of sueh a squall of wind as that; but you're but
a fresh-water sailor, Hob. Come, let us make u
bowl of punch^nd we'll forget all that; do you see
what charminlJPweather it is now?" To make short
this sad part of my story, we went the old way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk
with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
:dl my repentance, all my reflections upon my past
'conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. Iu
a word, as the sea viP returned to its smoothness of
surface and settled calmness by the abatement iif
that storm, so the horry of my thoughts being over,
nVy fears and apprehensions af being swallowed up by
the sea being forgotten, and the current of my foi'-.
mer desires returned, I.entirety forgot the vows and
promises that I made in my.distiess. I found, indeed,
some intervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts
did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as
it were from a distemper, and applying myself to
dirnking and company, soon maswred the return of
those fits, for so I.called them; and I had in five or
six days got as complete a victory over.eonscience,
as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled
with it could desire: butl.was to have another trial.
for it still; and Providenee^as in such-cases generally
U does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse:
for if 1i would- not take this for a deliverance, the
next was to he such a one as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess both the
danger and the mercy of.
The sixth day of our being at sea. we eame into
Yarmouth. Roads; the wind. having been contrary,.
and the weather calra,.we had made but. little way
since the storm.. Here we were obliged to come to-
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contra-
ry, viz.. at south-w est, for seven or eixht days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcastle came
into the same roads, as the common harbour where
the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but shnuM
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew
too fresh.; and after-we bad lain four or five days,.
blew very hard. However, the roads being reckon-
ed as good as a harbour, the-anchoragej;ood( and our.
ground tackle very strong, our men isfe unconcern-
ed, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but.
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of
the sea; but the eighth day in the morning the wind.
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our-
top-musts and make evx'ry thins snug and close, that.
the ship might ride as easy as pkssible. Ry noon the
sea wei;t very high indeed, and our ship rode Joreeatt*.
tie in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice ow »iKlm had tienit home; upv-u which our
icasfrr ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we
rode with two anchors abead, and the cables veer-
ed out to the bettrr enii.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the fa-
«es even of the seamen themselves. The master,.
though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship,,
yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could
hoar him softly say to himself several times, " Lord
be merciful to us! we shall be all lost, we shall be all
nndone!'' and the like. During these first horries I
was stupid,.. lying still in my cabin, which was' in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I could
ill reasnme the first penitence which.thad soappar-
ently trampled upon,.and hardened myself against:.
I thought the bitterness of death had been past, and
that this would be nothing like the first: but when the
master himself came by me> as I said just now, and
said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighten-
ed : I got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but
such a dismal sight L never saw; the sea w.ent moun--
tains high, and broke upon us every three or four
minutes: when I could look about, I" could see noth.--
ing but distress. round us : two ships that rid nean
us, we found had cut their masts by. the board,.
being deep laden; and our men cried out, that a
ship which rid about a mile abead of us was foun-
dered. Two more ships being driven from their an~
chors, were run out of the roads ta.sea, at all adven-
tures, and that with not a mast standing. The light
ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the
sea: but two or three-of them drove,.and came close
by us, running away with.only their sprit-sail out be-
fore the wind..
Towards evemng the mate and boatswain begged
the master of our ship to-lot them cut away the fore-
mast, which he was very unwilling to do: but the-
toatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the
ship wouhl founder, he consented; and when they
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so.
toose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged.
Hi eut tier away also, and make a clear declu
Any one may judge what a condition I must be i*
at all this, who was but a young siilo''. and who had
been in such a fright before at hnt a little. But if I
can express at this distance the thoughts that 1 had
nhoutme at that time, I was in tenfold mnre horrorof
mind upon account of my former convictions, and
the having returned from them to the resolutions I
had wickedly tuken at first, than I was at t eath itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me
in such a condition, that 1 can by no words describe
it But the worst was not come yet; the storm con-
tinued with such fnry, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never known a worse. We
had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and wallow-
ed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out, she would founder. It was my advantage
in one respect, that I did not know what they meant
liy founder till 1 inquired. However, the storm was
so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others more sen-
sible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting
every moment when the ship would go to the bot-
tom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been
down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a
leak; another said, there was four foot water in the
hold.. Then all hands were called to the pump. Af.
that very word my heart, as I thought,died withm me,
and I fell backwards upon the side ot'mv bed where
1 sat, into the csLin. However, the men roused me,
and told me, that I that was able to do nothing be-
fore, was as well able to pump as another; at which
I stin-ed up, and went to the pump and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing
some light colliers who, not able to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and
would r.ot come near us. ordered us to fire'a gun as a sig-
nal of distress. I, whoTcnew nothing nhatttiat meant,
WHS so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke,
or some dreadful tiling had happened. In a word, I wu
so surprised, that I fell down in * swoon. As this
was a time whon everjr body had his ewn life to
think of, nobody mindei'. me. or what was become
of me ; but another man stepped up to the pump, ami
thrusting Die aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
1 had been dead; and it was x^0. .at while before I
eamc to mvself.
We worked on ; but the water increasing in the
holtl, it was apparent that the ship wouM founder; and
though the storm began to abate a littte, vet ns it was
not possible she could swim till we migi.t run into a
port, so the master continued firing guns tor help, and
a light ship who had rid it out just ahead of us, ven-
tured a boat out to help us. It was with the ut-
most hazard the boat came near us, but it was impos-
sible for us to g«t ou board, or tor the boat to lie
ue.ir the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartilv, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men east them a rope over the steru with a buoy
to it, and then veered it out a great leugt!-, which they
after great labour and hazard took hold of, and we
hauled them close under om- stern, and got all into
their boat. It was tp^no purpose for them or us,
after we were in the boat, to think of reaching to
their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
. only to pull her in towardsaUoreas much as we could;
ind our master prondsed them, th.it if the boat was
staved upon ihore he would make it good to their
master: so partly rowing and partly driving, our
boat went away to the northward, sloping towards
the shore almost as far as VVintarton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship but we suw her sink, m.d then I
understood for the first time what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea. 1 must acknowledge I
had hardly eyes ton look up when the sea.nen told
me she was sit.king; Oir from that moment they rath-
er put me into the boat lhnu that I might he said to
go in; my heait was as it were, dead within me,
;wirtly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and
the tlioughts of what was yet In-fore me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet la-
bouring at the oar to bring tlit- boat near the slvre,
we coulu see, (when car boat mounting the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people run-
ning along the strand to assist us when we should
come near; bat we made but slow way towards the
shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till Ire-
ing past the light-house at Wintcrton, the 'shore falls
off to the westward touards Cromer, and so the land
broke oft'a little the violence of the wind. Here we
got in, and, though not without much difficulty, go't
all safe on shore, and walked afterwads on foot to Yar-
mouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used
with great homanity, as well'by the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by par-
ticular merchants and owners of ships, and had mon-
ey given us sufficient to tarry us either to London or
back to Hull, as we thought fit.
'Had'I now had the sense tohave gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had'been 'happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's para-
ble, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for
hearing the ship'I wertt away in, wascast away in Yar-
mouth |{imds, it Mas a great while before he had any
assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obsti-
nacy that nothing could resisit; 'and though 1 had seve-
ral times loud calls from my reason and my more com-
posed judgment to go 'home,yet!'had nopower to
do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge
that it is a secret overruling decree that burries us on
to be the instruments of our-own destruction, eve«
thongh it be before us,• and that we rush upon it
with our eyes open. Certainly, nothingbut some such
decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, should have push-
ed me forward against the calm reasonings and per-
suasions of my most retired thoughts, and against
two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me be-
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less for-
ward tkan I. The first time he spoke to me after
we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
days, fer -we were separated in the town to several
quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appear-
ed his tone was altered, and looking very melancho-
ly, and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and
telling his father who'! was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, m order to go-farther abroad;
his father turning' to rate with a- very grave and con-
scerned tone, "Yottfig man," says he," you ought
never "to go to sea any more ; you ought to take
this for a plain ind visible token that rou are not to
be a seafaring man."—" Why,'Sir/' saidSI, " will
vou go to sea ito more?" "That is another case," said
lie; "it is my calling, artil' therefore my duty; but
as you made this voyage for a trial, you see u hnt a
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect
if you persist: "perhaps this is all befallen us on your
account, like Jonab in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,
'i' continues he, " whatare you? and-on what account
did you go to sea."' Upon that I told him some of
ray story; at the end of which he burst out in a
strange kind 'of passion; "What had 1 done," says
lie," that such an unhappy wretch shori'ut come into
my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship
"with thee again ftr a thousand pounds" This in-
deed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
"farther than he could have authority togo. Howev-
er, he afterwards 'talked very gravely to me, ex-
porting me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin ; told me' I might see a visi-
ble hand of Heaven against me. "And youngman,"
said he, "depend upon it, if you do not po back,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your farther'!
words are fulfilled upon you."
AVe parted soon after; for I made him little an-
swer, and I saw him no more: which way he went,
1 know not. As for me, having some nioney in my
pocket, I travelled to London by land : and there, as
well as on the road, had many struggles with myself,
what coarse of life 1 should take, and whether 1 should
. go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best notwtts
that offered to my thoughts; audit immediately oc-
curred to me how 1 slmuld be laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even every hody else;
from whence J have since often observed, how incon-
gruous aud irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially ofyouth, to th:it reason which ought to
i-uidc them in such cases, viz. that they are not
ashamed tn sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
nor ashamed of the action for which they ought justly
to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the return-
ing, which only can make them be esteemed wise
men.
In this state of life however, 1 remained some
time, uncertain what measures io take. HIM! what
course of iifeto lead. An irresistible reluctance con-
tinued to going home; and us 1 stayed a while, the
remembrance of the distress 1 had been in wore off;
and as that abated, the little notion I had in my de-
sires to a return wore off with it, till nl last I quitO
laid aside tUe thoughts of it, and looked out fora
vovflge.
That evil influence which carried me fimt away
ffo:u my father's house: that horried me into the wild
a;!il indigested notion of raising my fortune; and that
Hunrfssc•! those conceits so forcibly upon me as to
make me deaf to all good advice, and tn the entrea-
ties and even the command of my father: I &'ty, the
s:ime influence, whatever it was, preset ted the most
untortuni.le of nil enterprises to nt\ view; niul I went
on In ,ri! a vessel hound to tin: coast of Africa; or, aa
our siiiors vulgarly call it, a voyage to finirca.
It was my great misfortune that in all these nd-
ventuivs I did not :;hip ;mseU'as a sndor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked u little harder
tbUn ordm:tr\, yet at th,' .SHiue lime I !';ui lenfnt the
duty jufJ offiee of a fon-m i^tni.'D; :uid in time might
have qiuntticd m\seU' l"ir ;; mate or lientenai•t, ifaot
for H master. Uut aa it was :d WHJ s my fate tn choose
for the \vome,so 1 did here; for ha\i:.g money in my
pocket, and good clothes upon iuy back, 1 would :d-
wajes go oo board in the habit ofa genUeRtan; artd
so I neither had any business in the ship, or learnt to
do am.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with me.
1 first fell acquainted with the master of a ship who
had been on the coast of Guinea; and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again;
and who, taking a fancy to my conversation, which.
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me
say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would
go the voyage with him, I should be at no expense;
I should be his messmate and his companion, and if I
could carry any thing with me, I should have all the
advantage of itthatthe trade would admit; and per-
haps I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with the captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I in-
creased very considerably; for 1 caried about 40/. in
such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to
buy. This 40/. I had mustered together by the as-
islance of some of my relations whom I corresponded
with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least
my mother, to contribute so much as that to my firs'
adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of
the mathematies and the rules of navigation, learnt
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an
observation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were needfttl to be understood by a sailor: for,
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant: for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure,
voi. i. B
which yielded me in London at my return almost
300/. and in this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have so completed my ruin.
Yet even In this voyage I had my misfortunes too:
particularly, that 1 was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I
embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate tn the former voyage, and had uow got the
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
carry quite 1001. of my new gained wealth, so that I"
had 200?. left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yet Uell into ter-
rible misfortunes in this voyage: and the first wa3
this, viz. our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprised in the grey of the
morning by a Turkish rover of Bailee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crow-
ded also as much canvass as our yards would spread,
or our masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. A-
fcout three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, in-
stead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in
a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off'
again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also his
small shot from nearly 200 men which he had on
hoard. However, we had not a man touched, all our
men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again,
and we to defend ourselves; but laying na on board
the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty
anen upon our decks, who immediately fell to cut-
ting and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied
them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and
such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our stray,
our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed
and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and
were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging.
to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended: nor was I carried up the country
to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain o'f the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, beingyoungand nimble, and
fit for his business. At this surprising change of my
circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave,
I was perfectly overwhelmed; arid now I looked back
upon my Father's prophetic discourse to me, that I
should be miserable, and have none to relieve me,
which I thought was now so effectually brought to
pass, that I could not be worse , that now the hand
of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone with-
out redemption: but alas! this was Imt a taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the se-
qual of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his house, sol was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it
would some time or other he his fate to be taken by
a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and that then 1'
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and to do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me
to ^ lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I would take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it: nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational ; for I had nobody
to communicate it to, that would embark with me, no
fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman
there but myself; so that for two years, though V.
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I n*yr.
er had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in
practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presen-
ted itself, which put the old thought of miking some
attempt for my liberty again in my head: my patron
lying at home longer than nsual without fitting out
his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money,
he used constantly, once or twice* week, sometimes
oftner, if the weather wss fair, to take the ship's pin-
nace and go out into the road a-fishing; and as heal*
ways took me and a young Moresco with him to row
the boat, we made him very merry, and I profed
very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that some-
times he would send me with a Moor, one of his kins-
men, and the youth the Moresco, as they called him,
to catch a dish et'fish for him. .
It happened one time, that going a-fi shing in a stark
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore we lost sight of
it; i'nd rowing, we knew not whither Or which way,
we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when
the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea
instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were
at least two leagues from the shore: however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labour and
some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning; but particularly we were all very
bungry.
Bat our patron, warmed by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any
more without a compass and some provision; so he
ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an En-
glish slave, to build a little stateroom, or cabin,in the
middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the
main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to
stand and work the sails: she sailed with what we call
a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom gibed over
the top of the cabin, which lay very suug tnd low,
and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two.
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put
in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink;
particularly his bread, rice and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing,
and, as I was most de\tt rons to catch fish Tor him, he
never went without me. It happened that he had ap-
pointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moores of distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on board the boat over-night
a larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had
ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and
shot, which were o» hoard his ship; for that they
designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing
1 got all things ready as he had directed, and wait-
ed the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
ensign and pendants oat, and every thing to accom-
modate his guests ; when by and bye my patron came
on board alone, and told me his guests had put off
going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered
me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
hoat and catch them some fish, for that his frienda
were to sup at his house; and commanded that ai
soon as I got some fish 1 should bring it home to his
house; all which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was liketa
have a littlr ship at my command; and my master be-
ing gone, t prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing
business, but for a voyage; though 1 knew not, neith-
er did I so much as consider, whither I should steer;
for any way to get out of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told hhn we must not presume to eat of
our patron's bread; he said that was true: so he
brought a large basket of rusk or bisket of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I
knew where my patron's case o£ bottles stood, which
it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some
English prize, and 1 conveyed them hito the b.bat while
the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there be-
fore for our master: I conveyed also a great lump of
bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above half a
hondred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to make
candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently enme into also; his name was Ismael, whom
they call "Muly, or Moley ; so I called to him: " Mol-
cy," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat;
can you not get a little powder and shot? It may be
we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews)
for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores
in the ship."—" Yes," says he," I'll bring some;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which
held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather
more; and another with shot, that had five or six
pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat:
at the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of
the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty,
pouring what was in it into another; and tbus furnish-
ed with every thing needful we sailed out of the port
to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, knew wha we were, and took no notice of us: and
we were not rbove a mile out of the port before we
haled in oar sail, and set us down to fish The wind
blew from the N. Ne. E., which was contrary to my
desiri ; for had it hlowu southerly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and "t learit reached
to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow
which way it would, I would be gone fr'm that hor-
rid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
Aft"rwe had fished sometime and catchrd nothing,
for when I haii fish 0i: my hook I would not pull them
up, that he i 'is;ht not see them, 1 suit! to the .Moor,
"This will not do; our master will not be .tbus ser-
ved; we must stand farther nff." He, thinking no
harm, agreed, and being in the head of the boat, set
the sails; and as I had the helm I run the boat out
near a league farther, and then brought her to as if I
would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if
I stooped for something behind him, I took him by
surprise with my arm under his waist, and tossed
him clear overboard into the sea; he rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cork, and cilled to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over
the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching out one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had done
him no burt, and if he would be quiet I would do him.
none: u But," said I, " you awim well enough to
reach to the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm;
but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty;" so
he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and
I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he
was an excellent swimmer.
1 could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I
turned to the bny, whom they called Xury, and said
to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll
make you a great man 3 but if you Mill not stroke
your face to be true to me," that is, swear by .Maho-
met and his father's beard, I niust throw you into
the sea too." The hoy smiied in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I couhl not mistrust him; and
swore to be fuithiul to me, and go id! over the world
with me.
While ! was in virw of the Moor that was swim-
ming, 1 stood out directly to sea with the boat,rather
strt-tching to windward, that they 1! Jit think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth; (as indeed anyone
thiit had been in their wits must hn\e been supposed
to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward to the truly barbarian coast,
where whole nations ofNegroes were sure to sur-
round us with their canoes, and destroy us; where
wu could never »nce go eu share but we should be
devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of buman kind?
Hut as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and by
east, bending my course a little toward the east, that i
night keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such
sail that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in.
th? afternoon, when I first made the land, I could not
be less than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
tbeir hands, that 1 would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
wonld now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what lati-
tude, what country, what nation, or what river; I
neither saw, nor desired to see any people ; the prin-
cipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the country; but
as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful
neises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, of we knew nolofwlmt kinds,that the poor
boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not
to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," suid I,
"then I won't; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as Dad to us as those lions."—
"Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, "make them run wey." Such English
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave
him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good,
and I took it; we dropped oar little anchor, and lay
still all night; 1 say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we
knew hot what to call them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea shore and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cool-
ing themselves; and they made such hideous howl-
ings and yel lings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was
I too; but we were both more frighted when we heard
one of those mighty creatures come swimming to-
wards our boat; we could not see him, but we might
hear^iim by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and
furious beast: Xury said it was a lion, and it might
be so for ought 1 know; but poor Xury cried to me
to weigh the anchor and'row away: rt No," says I,
"Xury; we can slip our cable with the buoy to it,
and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had
no sooner said so, than I perceived the creature (what-
ever it was) within two oar's length, which some-
thing surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin-door, and takingup my gun fired at him;
upon which be immediately turned about, and swam
towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howling, that were raised^ as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing
I have some reason to believe those creatures had
never heard before: this convinced me there was no
going on shore for- us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another
questisn too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of lions and tigers ; at least we were equal-
ly apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
left in the boat; when or where to get it, was the
point: Xury said, if I would let him go on shone with
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water,
and bring some to me. Tasked him why he would
go.' why I should not go, and he stay in the boat
VoI. i. fi 2
The boy answered with so much affection, that made
me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans
come, they eat me, you go wey."—" Well, Xury,"
said I, " we will both go, and if the wild mans come,
we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us." So I
gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned
before; and we haled the boat in as near the shore as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore; carry-
ing nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it;' and by and by I saw him,
come running towards me. I thought he was pursued
by some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and
I run forward towards him to help him; but when I
came nearer to him, I saw something banging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs;
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very
good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came
with, was to tell me that he had found good water,
and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so we
filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no foot-
steps of any homan creature in that part of the coun-
try.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and
not exactly knowing, or at least remembering what
latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these Islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along
this coast till I came to that part where the English
traded, I should find some of their vessels upon then-
usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us
in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was, must he that country, which, lying between
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions ^- the Negroes,
lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild beasts;
the negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not think-
ing it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness;
and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodigi-
ous number of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furi-
ous creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors
use it for their bunting only, where they go like an
army, two or three thousand men at a lime; and in-
deed for near an hondred miles together upon this
coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited coun-
try by day, and heard nothing but bowlings and
roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneriife, being the high top of the Mountain
• Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so I
rrsolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
nfter we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor
under a little point of land which was pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay slill to go
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seem* mine were, calls softly to me, ami tells
me that we had best go farther otftJie shore : " for,"
•ays he, "look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock fast asleep." I looked where he
pointed, nnd saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it
waa a terrible great lion that lav on the tide of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that bung
as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, "vOU
shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked fright-
ened, and said, \^Me kUl ! he eat me at one mouth;"
one mouthful he meant: however, I said no more to
the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs,
and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces, I
loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim
I could with the first piece to have shot him in the
head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up, growling at first, but
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he began to move off,
fired again, and shot him in the head, and had the
pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise,
but lie struggling fiir life. Then Xury took heart.
and would have me let him go on shore : " Well, go,"
sakl t; so the boy jumped into the water, and taking
* little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the
ether hand, and coming close to the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the
head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and'I was ven- sorry to loose three charges of powder
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to
us. However, Xury said he would have some of
Tiim ; so he comes on board, and asked me to give
1iiiu the hatchet. "For what, Xury ?" said I, "Me
cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could
not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself however, that perhaps the skin
of him might one way or other he of some value to
us i and I resolved to take off his skin if I could.
So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very
ill how to do it. Indeed it took us both up the whole
day, but at last we got off the hide of him, and spread-
ing it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried
it in two days time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water; my design in this was, to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, any
where about the Cape de Verd, where I wns in hopes
to meet with some European ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to tnke, but to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, make this Cape, or those islands; and
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship,
or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited; and in two or three places, as we
sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look
at us; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark nuked. I was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them ; but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, "No go, n6 go" However, I
hauled in nearer the shore that I mighttulk tothem,
and I found they run along the shore by me a good
way: I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance, and that thcr would throw
them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a dis-
tance, but talked with them by signs as well as I
could; and particularly made signs for something to
eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they
would fetch me same meat. Upon this I lowered the
top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up
into the country, and in less lhan half an hoar came
back, and brought with them two pieces ofdty flesh
and some corn, such as is the produce of their coun-
try i but we neither knew what the one or the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but how
to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for
venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and
went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an opportunity
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully;
for while we were lying by the shore came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury from the mountains towards tlw
sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not
tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual
or strange, but 1 believe it was the latter; because, in
the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom ap-
pear but in the night; and in the second place, we
found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart, did
not fly from them, but the rest did; however, as the
two creatures ran directly into the water, they did
not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but
plunged themselves into the sea and swam about as
if they had come for their diversion. At last one »f
them began to come nearer our boat than I at first
expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load the others: as soon as he came fairly within my
reach I fired, and shot him directly in the head; im-
mediately he sunk down into the water, but rose in-
stantly, and plunged up and down as if he was strug-
gling for life; and so indeed he was; he immediate-
ly made to the shore ; but between the wound, whtch
was his mortal burt, and the strangling of the water,
be died just bcCwe be scathed, t
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun;
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and
fell down as dead with the very terror. But when
they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water,
and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and came to the shore, and began to
search for the creature. I found him by his blood
staining the water, and by the help of a rope, which I
slung round him, and gave the Negroes to hale, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable de-
gree, and the Negroes held up their hands with ad-
miration to think what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they came,
nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eatiag the flesh of
this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me, which, when I made signs to them,
that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately thev fell to work with him, and
though they had no kmfe, yet with a sharpened piece
of wood they took off his skin as readily, and much
more readily, than we could have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as if I would give it them, but made signs for
the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provision, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted; then I
made signs to them for some water, and held out one
of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
filled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose,
in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and
I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as the
men,
I was now furnished with roots and corn, sueli as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me; and, the sea being
very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point;
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to
seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Vettl, and those
the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should be
taken with a gale of wind I 'might neither reac\ one
nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, T stepped
into the cabin and sat me down,Xury having the helm,
when on a sadden the boy cried out, " Master,
Master, a ship with St sail!" and the foolish bny was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs he
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
1 jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not
only the ship, but what she was, viz. that it.was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I observed
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they
were bound'some other way, and did*noI design to
come auy nearer the shore; upon which I stretched
out to sea as much as I could, resolving ta speak w ith
them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I .should
not be able to came in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any signal to them;
bat after I had crowded to the utmost 'and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some Kuropean
boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that w:is lost; so they shortened sail to let me
come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had.
my patron's ensign on board, I made a waft of it to
them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both
which they saw, for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the guu : upon these signals
they very kindly brought ta, and lay by for me, and
in about three hours time I came up with them.
Thev asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French; but I understood none of
them; but at last a(Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered lmn, and told Mm I
was an Englishman, that J had made my escape out
of slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bade
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one
would believe lhat I was tbus delivered, as I esteemed
it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless con-
dition as I was in, and immediately offered all 1 had to
the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliver-
ance; but he generously told me, he would take no-
thing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
snfc to me when I came to the Brazils; "For," says
he, " I have saved your life on no other terms than
I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one
time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. "Besides, said he, " when I carry you to
the Brazils, so great a way from your own country,
if I should take from yon what you have, you will be
starved there, and then I only take away that life I
have given. No, no,SeignorInglese,"sayshe, ("Mr.
Englishman,) I will carry you thither in charity, and,
those things will help yuu to buy your subsistence
there, and your passage home again.''
As be was charitable in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered thesea-
4tien, that none should offer to touch any thing I had:
theu he took every thing into bis own possession, and
pave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them; even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me \vhat I would have for it? I told
him he had been so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces
of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it np:
he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my
boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was
very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it
to be just, and offered me this medinm, that he would!
give the boy an obligation to set him free in tea
years, if he turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury
saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain
have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Buy de Tudos los Santos, or All Saint's
Kay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable ot"
all conditions of life; and what to do next with my-
self I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember: he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, winch I
bad in my ho.it, and caused every thing I !KIi| in the
ship to he punctually delivered to me; an;! what I s;is
willing to sell he bought, such as the case ofbottirs,
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump nf bees-
wax, for I had made camtifs of the rest: in a word,
I made about two buirlred and tuentv pi'•ces of eight
of all my cargo; and with this stock I went on shore
in ihe KraVils
I bad not been longhere, before I was recommend-
ed to die ho'J9i. of a good bo'iesf man like himself, who
had an i'ifnno us the; call it; that is, a plantation
and a su^nr.liouse ; I Hrrd with him some time, and
acquainted myself by that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
-well the planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turB planter among them, resolving, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money,
which 1 had left in London, remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation
and settlement, and such a one as might he suitable
to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from Kngland.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, whose name was Wells, and
in much such circumstances as I was. I call him my
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very sociably together. My stock
was but low, as well as his: and we rather planted,
for fond than any thing else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of
ground ready for planting cane in the vear to come;
but we both wanted help -, and now I found, more
than before, I bad done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
But, alas! for me todo wrong, that neverdid right,
was no great wonder: 1 had no remedy but to go tm;
1 was gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genins, and directly contrary to the life 1 delighted in,
and for which 1 forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very mi'ldle station, i;r upper degree of low life,
which my father advis' d me to before; and which, if
I resolved to go on, with, 1 might as well have stsid at
home, and never have JAtijued myself in the world as
I had done; and 1 used often to say to myself, I
conM have done this as well in England ahtongst my
friends, ss havi gone five thousaud miles oflTto do it,
among strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at
such diittnce. as never to henr from any part of the
world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner 1 used to look upon my condition
"with the utmost regret. 1 had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work to
be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I used'
to say, 1 lived just like a man cast away upon some
desolate island, that had nobody there but himself.
But how just has it been, and how should all men
reflect, that, when they compare their present condi-
tions with others thatare worse, Heaven may oblige
them to make the exchange, and be convinced oftheir
former felicity, by their experience; I say, how just
has it been, that the truly solitary life 1 reflected on in
An island of mere desolation should be my lot, who
had so often unjustly compared it with the life which
I then led, in which, had 1 continuod, I had in all
probability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrymg on the plantation, before my kind friend the
contain of the ship, that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there, in providing his
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
month's; when, telling him what little stock I had left
behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and
sincere advice. " Seignor Inglese," says he, for so he
always called me, " if you will give me letters, and a
procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send vour
effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct' and
in such goods as are proper for this country, I will
bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; but since buman affairs are all subject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give order*
but tor one bundred pounds sterling, which you say
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; so that if it comes safe, you may order the
rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for jour supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked 30
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
tettem to the gentlewoman with whom I bad left I0y
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain,
as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the bu-
mamty of his behaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necissary directions for my supply;
and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means, by some of the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order ouly, but a full account of
my story to a merchant at London, who represented
it effectually to her; whereupon, she not only deliver-
ed the money, but out of her own pocket sent the
Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his
bumanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had writ-
ten for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he
brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in
my business to think of them) he had taken care to
have all sortsof tools, iron-work, andutensilsnecessary
for my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
Wheu this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for 1 was surprised with the joy of it; and my
good steward the captain had laid out the five pounds
which my friend had sent him as a present for him-
self, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under
bond for six years service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all Kng-
fish manufactures, such as cloth, studs, baize, and
things particularly valuable and desirable in the coun-
try, I found means to sell them to a very great advan-
tage; so that I may say, I had more than four times
the value of my first cargo, and was now inBnitely
beyond my poor neighbour, ( mean in the advance-
ment of my plantation; for the first thing t did, I
bought me a Negro slave, and an European servant
also! I mean another besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation: 1 raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
my own ground, more than 1 had disposed of for
necessaries among my neighbours; and these fifty
rolls, being each of above one buudred weight, were
well cured and laid by against the return of the fleet
from Lisbon. And now, increasing in business and
in wealth, my head began to be full of projects aud
undertakings beyond my reach; such as are indeed-
often the rein of the best heads in business...
Had 1 continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have befallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a
quiet retired life; and of which he had so sensibly de-
scribed the middle station of life to be full; but other
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful
agent of all my own miseries; and particularly to in-
crease my fault, and double the reflections upon my-
self, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure
to make; all these miscarriages were procured by my
apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination
of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination,
in contradictiou to the clearest views of doing myself
good in a fair and plain pursnit of those prospects
and those measures of life, which nature and Provi-
dence concurred to present me with, and to make my
duty.
As I had done this in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not he content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view I: had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and tbus I cast myself
down sgain into the deepest gulph of buman misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consist-
ent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come then bo just degrees to the particulars of
this part of my stoiy; you may suppose, that having
BOW lived almost four fears in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plan-
tation. I had not only learnt the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that in my dis-
eourse among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
the manner of trading with the Negroes there, and
how easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for tri-
fles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets,,
bits of glass, and the like, not only gold-dust, Gui-
nea grains, elephants teeth, See. but Negroes for the
service of the Brazils in great numbers
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially "to that" part
which related the buying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assientos
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and
engrossed the public, so that few Negroes were
bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened,. being. in company with some mer-
ohants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to
me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what 1 had discoursed with
them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret proposal to me; and after enjoining me secre-
cy, they told me, that they had a mind to fit out a
ship to go t.o Guinea; that they had all plantations as
well a 1, and were straitened for nothing so much as
servants; that as it was a trade that could not be
carried on, because they could not publicly sell the
Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make ,but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own planta-
tions; and in a word, the Question, was, whether I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the?
trading part upon the coast ol' Guinea? and they off-
ered me that I should have my equal share of the
Segroes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a'fair
way of condng to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But for me, that was tbus entered and
established, and had nothing to do but po on as I had
begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the otheir hondred ponnds from England; and
who, in that time, with that little addition, could
scarce have foiled of being worth three or four thous-
and pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to
thinkofsuch a voyage was the mostpreposterousthing
that a man, in such circumstances, could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer,
eould no more resist the offer than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I
would go with all my heart, if they would undertake
to look after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarri-
ed. This they all engaged to do, and entered into
writings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal
will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of
my death, making the captain of the ship that had
saved my life as before, my universal heir, but oblig-
ing him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in
my will, one half of the produce being to himself, and
the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve tnr
effects and keep up my plantation: had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own inter-
est, and have made a judgment of what I ought to
have done, and not to have done, I had certainly
never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking,
leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was burried on, and obeyed blindly the dic-
tates of my fancy rather than my reason : and accord-
ingly the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnish-
ed, and all things done as by agreement by my part-
ners in the "voyage, I went on board in an evil hour,
the 1st of September, 1659, being the same day eight-
Years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
m order to act the rebel to their authority, and the
fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about one hondred and twenty tons
burden, carrying six guns, and fourteen men, besides
the master, his boy, and myself; we had on board no
large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit
for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits
of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little look-
ing-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with,
design to stretch over for the African coast; whe»
they came abuut 10 or 12 degrees of northern lati-
tude, which it seems was the manner of their course
in those days. We had very good weather, only ex-
cessive hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we
made the height of Cape St. Augustino, from whence
keeping farther off at sea we lost sight of land, ani*
steered as if we were bound for the isle Ferrand de
Noronha, holding our course N. E. by N. and leaving
those isles on the east. In this course we passed the
line in about twelve days time, and were by our last
observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude,
when a violent tornado or burricane took us quite out
of our knowledge; it began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled into the
northeast, from whence it blew in such a terrible
manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive; and scudding away before it, let
it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds
directed; and during these twelve days, 1 need not
say that I expected every day to be swallowed np,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their
lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men die of the calenture, and one
Man and the boy washed overboard; about the l#th
vOE. I. C
-, ,
80 llfrE AND ADVENT»RES
day the weather abating a little, the master made ail
^Observation as well as he could, and found that he was
In about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22
-degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St.
Augustino: so that he found he was gotten upon the
rtonst of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, beyond
''the river Amazone, toward that of the river Oro-
'noque, commonly called the Great River, and be-
gan to consult with me whal course he should take,
for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, and
lie was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
1 was positively againstthat, and looking over the
tharts of the sea coast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to, till we came within the circle of the
Carribbee islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Harbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to
'avoid the indraft of the bay or gulph of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen
'^lays sail; whereas we coul J not possibly make oar
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance,
''ioth to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steer-
$d away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of our
^English islands, where F hoped for relief; but oar
'voyage was otherwise determined; for being in the
'latitude of 12 deg. IS rain, a second storm came upon
'Ws, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all
jjturaan commerce, that had all our lives been saved,.
AS to the sea, we were rather 4Q danger sf being de-
voured by savages thau ever returnmg to our own
country.
"In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men early in the m orning cried ou t, Land.'
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look
Out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we
were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a mo-
nxMt. her motion being so stopped, the sea broke
'Over her in such a manner, that we expected we
tshoukl all have perished immediately -t and we were
driven into our close quarters to shelter
as from the foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
drtven, whether an island or the main, whether inhab-
ited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind
was still great, though rather less than at first, we
'could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind
by a kind of miracle shoald turn immediately about.
In * word, we sat looking one upon another, and ex-
pecting death every moment, and every man acting
accordingly, as preparing for another world, for there
was little 'or nothing more for us to do in this; that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort
'we had, was, that contrary to our expectation, the
ship did not break yet, and that the master said the
wind began to abate.
Now though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having tbus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as
we could. We had > bo»t at our stern, just before
the storm; but she was first staved by dashing against
the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
•way, and either sunk or was driven to sea; so there
was no hope from her. We had another boat on
board, but how to get her off into the sea was s
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to de-
bate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute, and some told us she was actually
broken already.
la this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men,
they got her slung over the ships side, and getting all
into her,lethergo,andcommilledourselvs,neingelev-
sn in number, to God's mercy and the wild sea; for
the storm was abated considerably, yet the
sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might
well be called den wild :ee, as the Dutch call the sea
in a storm.
And now our ease was very dismal indeed ; for we
«11 saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that the
boat could not live, and that we should be inevitablv
drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if
we had, could we have done any thing with it; so we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with
heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for we alt
knew, that when the boat eame nearer the shore,
she would be dashed iuto a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls
to God in the most earnest manner; and the wind
driving ns towards the shore, we hastened our des-
truction with our own hands, palling as well as we
•ould towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, wheth-
er steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that
Kouhl rationally give us the least shadow of expecta-
tion, was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf,
or the mouth of some river, where, hy great chance
we might have ran our boat in, or got under the lee
of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But
there was nothing of this appeared; and as we made
nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed or rather driven about a league
and a half, as we had reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly
bade us expect the cnup-de-grace. In a word, it
took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at
once; and separating qs, as well from the boat »
from one another, gave us not time hardly time to
say O God 1 for we were all swallowed up in a mo-
ment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water: for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
hiving'driven me, or rather carried me a vast way on
tiwimls the shore, and having spent itself, went back,
and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. 1 had so ranch presence
of mi.id, as well as breath left, that, seeing myself
nearer the main land than 1 expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land
as fast as I could, before another wave should return,
and take me up again. Bat I soon found it was im-
possible to avoid it: for I saw the sea come after me
as high aa a great hill, and as furious as iui enemy,
which 1 had no means or strength to contend with;
my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself
upon the water, if I could; and so, by swimming to
preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the
shore, if possible; my greatest concern now being,
that the sea, as it would carry me a great way to-
wards the shore when it came on, might not carry
me back again with it when it gave back towards
the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, burried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and
I could feel myself carried with a mighly force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great u-ay ; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to s»im still for-
ward with all my might 1 was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up,
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though
it was uot two seconds of time that I could keep my-
self so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and
new courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it out; end finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo-
ments to recover breath, and till the water went from
me, and then took to my heels, and run with what
strength I had farther towards the shor.-. But neither
vould this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which
eame pouring in after me rgain: and twice more I
waft lifted up by the waves and carried forwards. as
before, the shore being very fiat.
The last time of these two had well near been fetal
to me; for the sea having burried me along as be-
fore, lauded me, or rather dashed me against a piece
of a rock, and Ihat with such ibrce, as it left me sense-
less, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance s
for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath
as it were quite out of my body; and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water, but I recovered a little before the return of
the waves, and seeing I should be covered again with
the a ater, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the
wave went back. Now as the waves were not so high
as at first, being near land. I held my held till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
brought me so near the shore, that the next wave,
though it went over me. yet did not so swallow met
up as to carry me away: and the next rur I took!
got to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat tne down
upon the irrass. free from danger, and quite out of
the reach of the water.
I was DOW laruU-d, and safe on shore, and began t(*
look up and thank God that my life was saved in a
case wherein there were some minutes before scarce
any room to hope I believe it is impossible to ex-
press to the life what the eestasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out
of the very grave ; and I do not wonder new at that
custom. viz. that when a malefactor, who has the hal-
ter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him: I say,
I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to
let him blood that very moment they tell him of it,
iliat the surprise mar not drive the animal spirits from
the heart and overwhelm him:
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands
,and my wb,ole being, as I may say, wrapped up is th%
wntemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe^ reflect-
ing upon all my comrades that were drowned, and
that there should not be one soul saved but myaelf;
for, as for them, I-never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and
two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded' vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off/and considered, Lord t
how -was it possible I could get on shore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I' began to look round me, to
see -what kind of a place I was in, and what was next
to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate,
and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance; for
I WAS wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing
either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I
see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with
honger, or being devoured by wild beasts; and that
whieh was particularly afflicting to me, was, that t
had ne weapon either to bunt and kill any creature
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any-
other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs:
in a v?ord, 1 had nothing about me but a knife, a
tobacco pipe, and n little tobacco in a box; this was
all my provision, and this thre\v me into terrible ago-
nies of mind, that for a while I run about like a mad-
man. Night coming upon me, ibegan with a heavy-
heart to consider what would be my lot if there were
any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night
they always eome abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir;
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolv-
ed to sil all night, and consider the next day what
death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect iif
h'fr. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water to driuk, which 1 did,
to m y great joy; and having drank, and put a liulo
tabasco in my mouth tA•nrcvent. hanger,,
the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to plane
myself so, as that if I should sleep, I might not fall,
and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for
ray defence, i took up my lodging, and having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition, and found myself the most refreshed with
it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad d ay, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sfa did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most
was, that the ship was lifted off in the night from the
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I first
Mentioned, where 1 had been so bruised by the waves
dashing me against it; this being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some necessary things for my
use.
When I came down from my apartment in tha tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I found
tvas the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water
'between me and the boat, which was about half s mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ahi|i, where 1 hoped to
fiud something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the (hip; and here I found afresh
renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe, that is to
say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now WHS. This forced tears
from my eyes again; but as there was little rcliefis
that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I
'my ctothca, for (he weather was ho; to ev
tremity, and took the water; but when 1 came to the
ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to
get on board; for as she lay aground, and high out of
the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second
time 1 espied a small piece of a rope, which 1 wonder-
ed I did no see at first, hang down by the fore-chains
so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it,,
and by the help of that rope, got up mto the fore-castle
of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she
lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and.
her head low almost to the water: by this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part
was dry; for you may be sure my first work was to
search and to see what was spoiled and what was free;
and first 1 found that all the ship's provisions were
dry a:id untouched by the water; and being very weft
disposed to eat, 1 went to the bread-room and filled
my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about'
other things,for I had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great cabin, of which 1 took a large
dram, and which Thad indeed need enough of to spirit
me for what was before me Now 1 wanted nothing
but ii bont to fnrui&h myself with many things which I'
foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It wasin vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had; :u.<l this extremity roused my application.
"We had several spun- yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the
ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for
their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they
might not drive away. When this was done I went
'down the ship's side, and pulling them to me I tied
four of them fast together at both ends as well asF
soold,inthe form of a raft, and laying twt or three
short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I.
eould walk upon it very well, but dtat it was notable
to best any great weight, the pieces being too lights
v01..I.. C2
so I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them
to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains ; but
the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries en-
couraged me to go hej ond what I should have beta
able to have done upon another occisoin.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight; my next cari; wns what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from thesurf
of the sea; but I was not long considering this, I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I
first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, aud lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I fil led with provi-
sions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five piec-
es of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon,
and a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we had brought to
sea with us,but the fowls were killed. There had been
some barley and wheat together, but, to my great dis-
appointment, I found afterwards that the rats had ea-
ten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, aud in all about five or six
gallons of rack: these I stowed by themselves, there
being no need to put them into the chest, nor no room
for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide
began to flow, though very calm, and I had the mor-
tification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I
had left oa shore upon the sand, swim away; as for
my breeches, which were only Imen, and opeu-
kueed'd, I swam on board in them and my stockings:
however, this put me upon rummaging fur clothes, of
which I found enough, but took no more than I want-
ed for present use, for I had other things which my
eye was mote upon; as, first, tools to work with on
shore; and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much mote valuable than a
ship-leading of gold would have been at that time: I
jot it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without
losinii time to look into it, for 1 knew in general what
it contianed.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols: these I secured first, with
some powder horns, and a small bag of shot, and
two old rusty swords. I knew there were three bar-
rels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our
gunner bad stowed them; but with much search I
found them, two of them dry and good, the third hsd
taken water, those two I got to my raft, with the
arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freight-
ed, and begtm to think how I should get to shore
with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder, and
the least capful of wind would have overset all lar
navigation.
I had three encouragements; 1. A smooth, calm
sea; !. The tide rising and setting in to the shore; 3.
"What little wind there was blew me towards the
)and: and tbus, having found two or three broken
fiars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a
hammer; and with this cargo I put to sea: for a
mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only
that I found it drive a httle distant from the place
wherc I had landed before, by which I perceived that
there was some indraft of the water, and consequent-
ly I hoped to find some sreefc or river there, wlm•b
] might make use of as a Ixnt to get to lund with my
c:irgo.
As I imagined, so it was: there nnpearrd before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
~
wreck, which, if'I had. I think verily would have
liroke my heart; far•knowing nolh'mjrof the coast, my
raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, anil
*iot bfin^ aground Rt tlf other end, it wanted tint a
liUU' UtU a" HI; cargo kad ilii'pcd utf tewarrit tl.m
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water, t
did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests,
to keep them in their places, but could not thrust off
the raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir
from the posture I was in, but holding up the chests
with all my might, stood in that manner near half an
hour, in which time the rising of the water brought
me a little more upon a level ; and a little after, the
water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel; and then
driving up higher, I at length found myself in the
month of a little river, with land on both sides, and a
strong current of tide running up. I looked on both
sides for a proper place to get to shore; for I was not
willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in
time to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved
to place myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly
in ; but here I had liked to have dipped all my carg*
.in the sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep,
lhat is to say sloping, there was no place to land, but
where one end of my float, if it run en shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that it
would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do,
»as to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping
the raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side
of it fast to the shore, near a fiat pieee of ground,
which I expected the water would flow over; and so
it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored
her by sticking my two broken oars into the ground 5
one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end: and tbus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my rail and all my cargo safe
-«n shore.
My nest work was to view the country, and seek a
.proper place for my habitation, and where to slow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might hap-
-pen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or on an island, whether inhabited or not
inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from
it northward : I took out one of the fowling pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and
thos armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill, where, after I had with great labour and
difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great
affliction, viz. that I was in an island environed every
way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some
rocks whieh lay a great way off, and two small islands
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, ex-
cept by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none;
et I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their
inds; neither when 1 killed them could I tell what
was fit for food, and what not At my coming back
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree
on the side of a great wood — I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the
world. 1 bad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls
of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and cry-
ing, every one according to his usual note ; but not
one of them of any kind that 1 knew. As for the
ereature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or
claws more than common; its flesh was carrion, and
fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to brine my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of that day; and what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest: for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing bat some wild beast might devour we.;
y
k
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of a hnt for that night's
lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures like hares run out of the wood where I shot
the fowl.
1 now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which wonld be
useful tome, nnrt particularly some of the riggingand
sails, and such other things as might come to land,
snd I resolved to make another voyage on board the
vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the first storm
that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, f
resolved to set all other things apart, till I got every
thing out of the ship that I eotdd get. Then I exiled
a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I
should take hack the raft; but this appeared imprac-
ticable: so I resolved to go as before, when the tide
was down, and I did so, only that I stripped before I
went from my but, having nothing on but a checked
kii.'rt and a pair of linen trowsers, and a pair of pumps
son my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor load si! it so hard,
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me; as first, in the carpenter's stores I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, agreut screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
together with several things belongingto the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows. and two ban-els
of musket-bullets, seven tnnskets, and another fowl-
lng-pi»ce, with some small quantity of powder mon-;
n large bag fnll of small shot, and a great roll of shest
Ii'ad; but this last was so heavy I could not hoist it
*p to get it over the ship's side.
JBeajAM tfaeae Ihings, I took all the men'* cletiie*
'that "I could find, and a spare forctopsail, hammock,
-and some bedding; and w iih this I loaded my second
raft. and brought them all s:.lc on shore to my very
great comfort.
I was under same apprehensions during ray absence
frnm the laud, that at least my provisions might be
iIcvourrd OD ebore; but ween I came back, I found
no sign of any visitor, only there tat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
still; shr sat very composed and uueoneeroed, and
looked full in my face, as if she bad a mind to be ao-
quainted with me; 1 presented my goo at her,butas
she did not understand it, she wa> perfectly uncon-
cerned s t it, niir did the offer to stir away; upon
which 1 towed her a tit of biscuit, though by the way
I was not very free of it, for my store was not great:
however, I spared her a bit, I say, and ehe went to
it. sme'iled of it, and ate it, and looked, as pleased, for
more; but I thanked Ui:r, and could span: i.>> more;
so she ma. uhea off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though 1
was fain to open I'M; barrels of powder and bring
them by parcek, F . they were too heavy, being large
casks, I weut *. *uik to make me a little tent with
the sail and some polrs which I cut for that purpose;
and into this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled all
the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either
from inuB or beast.
When 1 had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up an end without, and spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my
head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for
the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I
was very weary and heavy, as the mgh* before I had
slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as
well to fetch all those things from the ship as to get
them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds HOW that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still; for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could: so every day at low water I went
en board, and brought away something or other! but
particularly the third time I went, I brought away as
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece ofspare
canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder: in a word I brought
tway all the sails first and last, only that I was fein
to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as
1 could; for they were no more useful to be sails,
fcut as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me still, more was, that
last ofall, after I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and though I had nothing more to expect
from the ship that was wortli my meddling with; I
say, alter all this, 1 found a great hogshead of bread,
and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flower; this was surpris-
ing to me, because I had given over expecting any
more provisions, except what was spoiled by the wa-
ter: I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and
wrappeoVit up, parcel by parcel, in pieces«f the sails,
which I cut out; and in a word, I got all this safe on
shore also.
The next day I made another voyage: and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, \
got two cibles and a hawsvr on shore, wilh all the
iron work I could get; aod having cut down the sprit-
sail yard, and the mizcu yard, and every thing I could
to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy
goods, and came away: but my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy and so
overladen, ihat after I had entered the ltttle core
wher? Thail landed the rest of my gands, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it over-
•ct, aud threw me and all my cargo into the water.
As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near
theshore; but as to my cargo, it was a great part of it
lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have
been of great'ise to me: however, when the tide
was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and
some of the iron, though with infinite labour; for I
was fain to ilip for it into the wnteri a wovk which fa-
tigued me very much. After this. I went every day
on board, and brought away whKtl could get
I had been now thirteen days uii shore, and had
teen eleven times on hoard the ship; in which time
1 had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be su]niosed capable to bring, though I believe
verily, had the calm weather held I should have
brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but
preparing the twelfth time to go on Iward, I found
the wind began to rise; however, at low water I went
on board, and though 1 thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing more could be
found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in
one of which I found two or three razors, and one
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thir-
ty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and
some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O
drug!" said I, aloud," what art thou good for? thou
ait not worth to me, no not the taking off of the
ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap ; I
have no manner of use for thee; even remain where
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose
life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvass, I began to think of making another
raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the sky
overcast, and the wind began to rise aad in a quarter
of an hour ic blew a fresh gale from the shore. It
presently occurred to me, that it was in rain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was mv business to begone before the tide of flood
.
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the'
shore at all; accordingly I let myself down into the
water, and swam across the channel which lay be-
tween the ship ami the sands, and even that with dif-
ficulty enough, partly with the weight of things I had
about me, and partly the roughness of the water, fop
the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
verv hard all that night, and in the morning when I
looked out, behold r.o more ship was to be seen. 1
was a little surprised but recovered, myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, nor
abated no diligence to get every thing out of her that
could be useful to me, and that indeed there was lit-
tle left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had
had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, oi
'
of any thing out of her, except what might drive on
shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but those things were of small use
to me.
My thoughts were now wholly emploved about se--
cnring myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make; whether 1 shouhi
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth:
and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and.
description of which it may not be improper to give
an account of.
1 soon found the place I was in was not for my set-
tlement, particularly because it was upou a low moor-
ish ground near the sea, and I believed would not be
wholesome, and more particularly because there was
«o fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I
found would be proper fur me; 1st, Health, and fresh
w«er, I just no» menlioneti, SJn<Hy, Shelter frem
the heat of the sun. Sdlv, Security from ravenous
ereatures, whether man or beast. 4thly, a view to
the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not
lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
not willing to bunish all my expectation yet.
ID search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that no-
thing could come down upon me from the top: on
the side of this rock there was a hollow place worn a
little way in like the entrance or door of a cave, but
there was not really any cave, or \vay into the rock.
st all. .
On the flatofthe green, jost before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not
above an bundred yards broad, and about twice tw
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end of it descended irregularly every way down into
the low ground by the sea-side.. It was on the
N. V. W. side of the hill, so that it was sheltered
from the heat every day, till it came to a VV. and by
S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries i*
sear setting
Before I set up my tent, I drew a balf cirele before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
•emi-diameter-from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.
(a this half circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into-the ground till they stood
Yery firm, like piles, the bigest end being out of the
ground about five feet aod a half, and sharpened on
the top; the two rows did not stand above six inches
from HIM- another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows one above another,
within the cirele between these two rows of stakes,
np to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, lean-
ing against them, about two foot and a half high, like
a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong, that
•either man or beast could get into it or over it;
&0 cost, me a great deal of $uie and labour, esgeelal!-
)y to cut the piles in the woods, bring them t« tie.
place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to he not by a
door. but by a short ladder, to go over the top: which
ladder, when I was in, I liltol over after me: and so
I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept Si cure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done,
though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that 1 apprehen-
ded danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried ull my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above; and
J made me a large tent, which, to preserve me from
the mins, that in one part of the year are very vio-
lent there, I made double, viz. one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the
uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved
among the sails.
And now 1 lay no more for a while in the bed
which I had brought on shore but in a hammock,
whicli was indeed a very good one, and belonged to
the mate of the ship.
Into this tent 1 brought all my provisions, and eve-
ry thing that would spoil by the wet; and having
tbus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance,
which till now I had left opon, and so passed rjid re-
passed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way in-
to the rock, and bringing all Uie earth and stones that
1 dug down, oat through my tent, 1 laid them up
within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that so
it raised the ground within about a foot and a half,
and tbus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection, and there-
fore I must go back to some other things which took
up some of my thoughts. At the same time it hap-
pened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting op
ray tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of
lightning happened, and after that a great clap of
tbunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so
much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the
lightaing itself: O, my powder! my very heart sunk
within me, when I thought, that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed: on which, not my de-
fence only, but the providing me of food, as I thought,
entirely depended: I was nothing near so anxious
about my own danger; though, had the powder took
fire, I had never known who had hort me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that, af-
ter the storm was over, I laid as.ide all my works, my
building, and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes to seperate the powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope, that, what-
ever might come, it might not all take fire at once,
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible
to make one part fire another. I finished this work
in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which
in alt was about two bundred and forty pounds weight,
was divided in not less than a bundred parcels. As
to the barrel that had been wet, I did not appre-
hend any danger from that, sn I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen; and
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks,
so that no wet might come to it, marking very care-
fully where I laid it.
In the interval ot time while this was doing, I went
Out once at least every dav with my gun, as well to
divert myself, a- to St-e it'l could kill any thing fit for
food, Snd as near as I rould to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time t went out
I presently discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtile, and so swift of foot, that
it was the most difficult thing in the world to come
it then. Ball was not discouraged at tkls, not doabt-
Ing but I might now and then shoot one, as it StXJB
happened; for after 1 had found theirhaunlsa little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed, if
they saw me in the vallies, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright 3
but if they were feeding in the vallies, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
whence I concluded, that by the position of their
opties,their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above them;
»o afierwurd I took this method; I always climbed
the rocks first to get above them, and then had fre-
quently a fair mark. The firsi shot I made among
these creature! I killed a shi'-goat, which had a little
lid by her which she gave suck to, which griev".
ed me heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid
stood stock still by her till I came and took her up;
and not only so; but wheis I carried the old one with
me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite te
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and
took the kid in my arms, and carried it over m) pale,
in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it would not
eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for
1 ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abso-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in
auid fuel to burn; and what I did for thnt, aa also
how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its place; bat
I must first give some little account of myself. and of
my thoughts about living, which it may well be sup-
posed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I
was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz.
some bundred of leagues out of the ordinary course
sof the tra'le of mankind, I bad great reason to t.-^isid-
«r it aa a determiuation of iJearen, that in tliis de-
socate place, and in this desolate manner, I should
end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and some-
simes I would expostulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should tbus completely ruin his creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable; so abandoned
without help, so entirely .depressed, that it could hard-
ly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always turned swift upon me t«
check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and parti-
cularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand by
the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the subject of
lay present condition, when reason, as it were, ex-
postulated with me t'other way, tbus: "Well, you
are in a desolate condition, 'tis true, but pray remem-
ber, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten?
Why were they not saved and you hist? Why were
you singled out? I« it belter to be here or there?"
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in them, and with
what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
•ished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was a bun-
dred thousand to one, that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near
the shore that I had time to get all these things out of
her. What would have been my case, it'I had been
to have lived in the condition in which I it first came
en shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to
supply and procure them? "particularly," said I,
aloud (though to myself,) " what should I have done
without. a gun, without ammunition, without any tools
to make any thing, or to work with-; without clothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?" and
that uon I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and
was in a fair way to provide myself in s'ieh a man-
ner, as to live without my gun when my ammunition.
was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsist-
ing, without any want, as long as! lived: for I aau-
sidered from the beginning how I should provide for
the accidents that might happen, and for the time
that was to aome, even not only after my ammuni-
tion should be spent, but even after my health or
strength should decay.
1 confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my
powder being blown np by lightning; and this made
the thought of it so surprising to me v,heu it light*
oned and tbundered, as I observed just now.
A nd now, being about to enter into a melancholy
relation of a seene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in
the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this
horrid island, when the sun being, to us, in itsautum-
nal equinox, was nhnast just over my head, for I
reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude
of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve ilays,
it came into my thoughts, that 1 should lose my reck-
oning of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and
should even forget the sablnth days from the working
days; but to prevent this, I cut.it with my knife upon
a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first land-
ed, viz. "I came on shore here on the SOih of Sep-
tember 1659." Upon the sides of this square post, I
cut every day A notch with my knife, and every se-
venth notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and tbus 1 kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckouing of time.'
In the next place we are to observe, that among
the many things which 1 brougkt out of the ship in
the several voyages, which as above mentioned, I
Tnade to it, I got several tilings of less value, but not at
all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down be-
fore; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several
tiarcels hi the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpen-
ters keeping, three or four compasses, some mathe-
inatical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and
books of navigation; all which I buddled together,
whether I might want them or no. Also 1 found
three very good Bibles, which came to me in my car-
go from England, and which I had packed up among
my things; some Portuguese books also, and among
them two or three popish prayer-books, and several
other books: all which I carefully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occa-
sion to say something in its place: for I carried both
the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out
of the ship of himself, and swam on shore tome the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and
was a trusty servant to me many years ; I wanted noth-
ing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pen, ink and paper, and I busbanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show, that while my
ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that
was gone I could not, for I could not make any ink
by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe,
and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ; needles, pins,
and thread. As for linen, I soon learnt to want that
without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habita-
tion; the piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre-
paring in the woodsy and more by far in bringing
home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one ofohose posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground; for which purpdse I
got a heavy piere of wood at first, but at last betho't
myself of one of the iron crows, which however,
vol. i. D
though I found it, yet it made driving those posts ov
piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tedi-
eusness of any thing I had to do, seeing 1 had time
enough to do it in? Nor had 1 any other employment
if that had been over, at least that 1 could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I
did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to
'leave them to any that were to come after me, for I
was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver iuy
thoughts from daily pouring upon them, and afflicting
;ny mind; and as my reason began now to master my
despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I
could, and to set the good against the evil, that 1 might
have something to distinguish my case from worse;
and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and cred-
itor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries t
suffered, thos:
EYIL. GooD
I am cast upon a horri- But I am alive, and
tie desolate island, void not drowned, as all mj
«f all hope of recovery. ship's company was.
I am singled out and lint I am singled out
separated, as it were, too from all the ship's
from all the world, to be crew to be spared from
xuiserable- death; and He that mira-
culously saved me from
death, can deliver me
from this condition.
I am divided from But I am not starved
Mankind, a solitaire, one and perishing on a bar-
lanished from homan so- rert place, affording no
ciety. sustenance.
I have not clothes to» But I am in a hot cli-
*aver me. mate, where, if I had
clothes, I 'could hardly
wear tln'ia.
Evtl. GooD.
Tarn without any de- But I sm cast on an
fence or means to resist island where 1 see no
>ny violence of man or •wild beasts to burt me,
ieast.
I have no soul to speak
to, or relieve me.
as I saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I
had been shipwrecked
there?
But God wonderfully
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so many
necessary things as will
either supply my wants,
or enable me to supply
myself, even as long a& t
live.
tTpnnthe whole,here was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or some-
thing/Jowfife, to be thankful for in it; and let this
itand as a direction from the experience of the most
miserable of a11 conditions in this world, that we may
ilways find in it something to comfort ourselves from,
md to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
tredit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish ray
londition, and given over looking out to sea, to see
f I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things,
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of
ivtng, and to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
trong pale of posts and cables; but I might now ra-
hurcallit a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up a-
ainst it of turfs, about two feet thick, ou the outside;
iid after some time, I think it was a year and a half,
raised rafters from it, leasing to the rock, and
iatuhed or covered it with boughs of trees, and such,
iings as 1 could get to keep.outthe rain, which I found
t some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made
behind me: but I must observe, too, that at first this
was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no
order, so they took up all my place: I had no room
to turn myself; sol set mj self to enlarge my cave,
and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I be-
stowed upon it; and so when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the
right hand into the rock; and then, turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to
come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were, a back way to my tent and to my storehouse,
but gave me room to store my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
ttecessary things as \ found I most wanted, particu-
larly u chair and table; for without these I was not
able to enjoy the few comforts 1 had in the world; I
could not write or eat, or do several things with so
much pleasure without a table.
Sol went to work ; and here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and original of the ma-
thematies, so hy stating and squaring every thing by
reason, and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be in time master of every
mechanic art I had never handled a tool in my life,
and yet in time, by labour, application and contriv-
ance, I found at last that 1 wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if I had but tools; however,
I made abundance of things, even without tools, and
some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infinite labour: for example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set
it on an edge before me, and hew it. flat on either side
with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dubjit smooth with my adze. It it
true, by this method I could make but one board out
of* whole tree; but this I had Do remedy for but
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious
deal of time and labour which it took me up to make
a plank or board: but my time or labour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way :is
another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
•erved above, in the first place; and this I did out of
the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft
from the ship: but when I had wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth
ofa foot and a half one over another, all along one
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and in a word, to separate every thing at large
in their places, that I might come easily at them. 1
knocked pieces in the wall of the rock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up.
So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a
great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such or-
der, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries
s0 great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of
every days employment; for indeed at first I warf in
too much a burry ; but not only burry as to labour,
but in too much discomposure of mind, and my
journal would have been full of many dull things.
i'or example, I must have said tbus: Sept. the 30th,
after I got to shore, and had escaped drowning, in.
Itead of being thankful to God for my deliverance,
having first vomited with the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recov.
ering myself a litile, I ran about the shore, wringing
my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out, I was undone, undone;
till tired and faint, 1 was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of be-
ing devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board
the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I
oould uot forbear getting up to the top of a little
mountain, and looking out to sea in hopes of seeing *
ship; then fancy that, at a rast distance I spied a sail;
please mystlf with the hopes of it; and then after
looking tteadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and tbus increase
my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household stuff and habi-
tation, made me a table and * chair, and all as hand-
some about me as I could, I began to keep my jour-
nal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though
in it will be told all these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, I was
form! to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30,1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm
in the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortu-
nate island, which I called the ISUTID OF DESFAIB;
all the rest of the ship's company being drowned,
and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself
it the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I
had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to
fly to, and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but
death before me, either that I should be devoured by
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death
for want of food. At the approach of night I slept
in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept sound-
ly, though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and
was driven on shore again much nearer the island;
which, as it was some comfort on one hand, for see-
ing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped,
Vfee wind abated, I might get on Loan!, and get some
food and necessaries out of her for my relief; so on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the losa of my
comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all staid on
board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
swould not have heen all drowned, as they were; and
that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent
a great part of this day, in perplexing myself on these
things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then
swam on board. This day also it continued raining,
though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all
I could out of the ship, which I brought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also m
these days, though with some intervals of fair weath-
er: but, it seems, this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods T had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some
pists of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces, the wind blow ing a little harder than before,
•nd was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cov-
ering and scouring the goods which I had saved, that
the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day,
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I
fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked
out a semicircle for mv encampment, which I resolv-
ed to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification
made of doable piles, lined within with cables, and
withont with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
earning all my goods to my new habitation, t
komV purl sf thVttme. it rained exceeding hard;
The Slst, in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the
country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid fol-
lowed me home, which I afterwards killed also, be-
cause it would not feed.
November I. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.
JVov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I
had marked out for my fortification.
Atm. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a table.
JVoT. 4. This morning 1 began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion, viz: every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain,
then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock, then ate what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot, and then in the evening to work again:
the working part of this day and of the next, were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet
but a very Sony workman, though time and necessity
made me" a iComplete natural mechanic soon after, u
I believe they would do any one else.
JV~o». 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft,,
but her flesh good for nothing: of every creature I
killed, I took offthe skins and preserved them. Com-
ing back bj the sea shore I saw many sorts of sea-
fowls which I did not understand; but was surprised
and almost frightened with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing at, not well knowing what they
were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.
A*oi'. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to my
liking' nor was it long before I learnt to mend it
»V0Ti. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weathetv
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday), I took wholly up to make me *
chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please me; and even in the ma-
kins I pulled it in pieces several times.
NOTE. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for
emitting my maik for them on my post, 1 forgot
which wan which.
JYov. IS. This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accom-
panied with terrible tbunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it-
might not be in danger.
AVo. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in ma-
king little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds, at most, of powder;-
and so putting the powder uir 1 stowed it in places as
secure and remote from one another as possible. On
one of these three days 1 killed a large bird that wSs
good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.
JVor. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveni-
ence.
NOTE. Three things I wanted exceedingly for
this work, viz. a pickaxe. a shovel, and a wheel-bar-
row or basket.; so I desisted from my work, and be-
gan to consider how to supply these wants, and make
roe some toolsr -as fora pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy ; but the- next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary, that indeed T could
do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make 1 knew not.
JVoVi 18. The next day in searching the woods I
ton.'iI a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the
Brazils they call the iron tree. from its exoeedinghard-
ness: of this, with great labour and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home too with
cultv enough,.for it waa exceeding heavy.
voLt. U2
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having
~!uo other way, made me a long while upon this raa-
^chine; for.I worked it effectually by Jitde and little
into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly
ss shaped hke ours in England, only that the broad part
having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not
Siast me longj: however, it served well enough for
ithe uses which I had occasion to pat it to; but never
was a shovel, 1 believe, made after this fushion, or
.iso long a making.
- *I was still deficient, for 1 wanted a bosket or a
-swheel-barrow; a basket I could r.ot make by any
means, having no such tilings as twigs that would
bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
out; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make
all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither
did I know ho\v to go about it; besides, I had no pos-
sible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle
or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and
-so for carrying away the earth whicM dug out of the
s cave, I made me a thing like a hod which the la-
bourers carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-
layers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the
-shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
vhich'I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took
sme up no less than four days, I mean always except-
ing my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
^failed; and very seldom failed also bringing home
-Something to ert.
Won. 23. My other work having now stood still,
"because of my making these tools, when they were
sfinished.I went on, and working every day as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days en-
tirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
•light hold my goods com tnodiously.
NOTE. During all this time, I worked to make
this room or cave capacious enough to accommodate
*ne as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining
room, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I kept to the
test, except that sometimes in the wet season of the
Tear, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself
dry, which caused rae afterwards to cover all my
pbce within my pale with long poles in tin- form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them will
Hugs and large leaves of trees like a thatch.
Dec. 10. I began now to think my cave or rault
finished, when on a sudden (it stems I had made it
too large) a givat quantity of earth fell down from.
the top and one side, so much that in short it fright-
ened me, and uot without reason too; for if I had
been under it, I had never wanted a gravedigger.
Upon this disaster 1 had a great deal of work to do ss
over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out,
and, which was of more importance, 1 had the ceil-
ipg to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would
come down.
Dec. II. This dny ( went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright Ur-
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each
post; this I fmished the next day: and setting more
posts up with Iiuards, in about a week more I. had the
root secure; and the posts, standing in rows, served*
me for partitions to part o.'i" my house.
/;.-s.s. 17. From tlusday to the twentieth, I placed:
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang.:
every tiling up that could be bungup: audnow I be-
gan to be in some order within doors.
JJec. -20. Now I can it - d every thinginto the cave,,
und bv:g!ui to r'lrnish iny house, and set up some pie-
ces of boards like a dresser, to order my victuals up-
on; but Uwitis began to be very scarce with me: al-
60 I muih- me another ublr.
Dei:. 'i4. Much rain all uight and all day ; uo stit-
ring out.
JJec. 25. Uainnllday.
Dec. M. No rain, and the earth much colder tham
before, and plensautor.
J;ec. -2'. Killed a young goat, and lamed another,...
so that 1 caught it, and led iL humu in » blring i wheii
I hud it home, 1 Louiid and (;dinU't'cd up iu leg,
JV. -B. I took such care of it that it lived, and the
jig grew well and as strong as ever; but by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green
at my door, and would not go away. This was the
'first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up
some tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, SO, 31. Great heats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening, for food. This time 1 spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hotitill,butl went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the vallies,
which lay towards the centre of the island, 1 found
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and
hard to come at; however, 1 resolved to try if I
could not bring my dog to bunt them down.
Jan. 9. Accordingly, the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, bemg
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I re-
solved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I purpose-
ly omit what was said, in the Journal; it is sufficient
to observe, that I was no less time than from the 3d
of January to the 14th of April, working, finishing,
and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than
about twenty-four yards in length, being a half-circle
from one place in the rock to another place about
eight yards from it, the door of the cave being in the
centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together;
but I thought I should never be perfectly secure until
this wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what
inexpressible labour every thing was done with, espe-
cially the bringing piles out of the woods, and tIriviuj
them into the ground, for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside dou-
ble fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it. I
persuaded myself that if any people were to come on
shore there, they would not perceive any thing like
a habitation: and it was very well I did so, as may be
observed hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time 1 made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in tTwse walks of something
or other to my advantage : particularly I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who built not 88 wood pigeons in a
tree, but rathar as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks; and takingtome young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame,and did so; but when they grew
olden they flew away, which perhaps at first was for
want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their ntsts, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
•t first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as
to some ofthem it was; for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped ; 1 had a small runlet or
two, as I observed before, but I could never arrive to
the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it; I could neither put in the
Jieads, or joint the staves so true to one another as to
make them hoM water: so I gave that over also.
in the next place, I was at a great loss for candles,
90 that xs soon as ever it was dark, which was ge ie-
rally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed: I
remembered the lump of bees-wax with which I
made candles in my African adventure, but I had
none of that now; the only remedy I had, was, that
when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with
a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun,
to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear
steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that, rummaging my things, I
found a little bag, which, as 1 hinted before, bad been -
fillud with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this-
voyagt-, but before, as I suppose, when the ship came
from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn bad been
in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and 1 saw
nothing in the bag but hosks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it
was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the lightning, or some such use, I shook the busks of
corn out of it on one side of my for l hi cation under
the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, thai I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown any thing there; when about a month
after or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting out of the ground, which I fan-
cied might be some plant 1 had not seen; but I was
surprised ani! perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time I saw about ten- or twelve ears eome out,
which were perfect green barley of the same kind as
our European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion-, I had!
hitherto acted upon ng religions foundation at all;
indeed I had very few notions of religion m nn head,
or had entertained any sense of any thing that bad
befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as wr.
lightly any, what pleases tiod; without so much aa.
inquiring into the end of Providence in these things*
or his order in governing events in the world; but'
after 1 saw barley grow there, .in- a climate which I-
knew was not proper for corn, and especially as I
knew nut Kow it came there, it stui'tled mestroitftly,
and I began to suggest, that God had miraculouslv
caused this grain to grow ifiihout anv help of seed
sown, and that it was so directed purely for my sus-
tenance on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, tmd brought tear*
'fuyty w*U 1 JjtgttU U
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my ac-
count; and tins was the more strange to me, because
I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock,
some other straggling stalks, which proved to ba
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because 1 had seen
it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
1 not only thought these the p'ire productions of
Providence for my support, but not doubting but that
there was more in the place, I went over all that part
of the island, where I had been before, searching in
svery corner and under every rock to see for more of
it, but I could not find any; at last it occurred to my
thoughts, lh;;t I had shook a bag of chicken's meat
'out in that place, and then the wonder began to cease;
and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence began to abate too upon discovering
that all this was nothing but what was common;
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange
and unforeseen a Providence, as if it had been mirac-
ulous: for it was renlly the work of Providence as to
me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve
grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the rats had
destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from
heaven ; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
highrock,it sprang up immediately; whereas if I
had throw nit any where else at that time, it would
have burnt up and destroyed.
1 carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June, and
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in-time to have some quantity sufficient tosup-
ply me with bread; but it was not till the fourth
year that I enuld allow myself the least grain ,'( this
corn to eat, and even then but sparii.gly,as I shall say
afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the
first season, by not observing the proper time; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never
came up at all, at least not as it would have done: of
which in ita place.
Betides this barley there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks office, which I preserved with the same
eare, anO whose use was of the same kind or to the
same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather
food ( for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I di'l that also after some time. But to re-
turn to my journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four
months to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I
closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door but
over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no
sign ou the outside of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside: this was a corap!eta-
enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I
hud almost bud all my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed; the case was tbus; As I was busy in
the inside of it, behind my lent, just at the entrance
into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed : for all on a sudden
I found the earth come crumbling down from the
roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over
my head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave
cracked in a frightful manner; 1 was heartily scared,
but thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in,
as some of it had done before; and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not
thinking myself safe Uiere neither, I got over my wall
for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected
might roll down upon me. 1 had no sooner slept
down upon the ftrm ground, but I plainly saw it was
a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook
three times at about eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which/
stood about half a mile from me ue.tt the sea, fell.
*
slown n-ith such a terrible noise as I never heard in
all my life ; 1 perceived also that the very sea was put
in violent motion by it: and 1 believe the shocks
were stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that
I was like one dead or stupified; anil the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stu-
pified condition I was in, fijled, nie with horror, and I
thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my
tent and all my household goods, and burying all at
once; and this sunk my very soul •within me a second
time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to lake courage, and yet I had
not heart enough to get over my v?all again, for fear
of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. All this while T had not the; least serious reli-
gious thought, nothing but the convmon " Lord, have
mercy upon me,!" and when it was over, that went
away too.
While I sat tbus, I found the air overcast, ano1 grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that the wind•
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an
hour it blew a most dreadful burricane! the sea was
all on a sudden covered over withe foam and froth,
the shore was covered with the breach of the watyr,
the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible
storm it wns: this hold about three hours, and then
began to abate, and in two hours more it M'as stark
calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, Tery much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came into
my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con-
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture into mv cave
again: with this thought my spirits began to revive,
and the rain aUo helping to persuade me, 1 went ia
4
and sat down m my tent; but the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and I was forced to go into ray cave, though very-
much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my
head.
This violent rain forced me into a new work, viz.
to cut a hole through my new fortification like a sink,
to let the watergo out, which would else have drown-
ed my cave. After I had been in my cave some
time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
follow, I began to be more composed; and now, to.
support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of
rum, which, however, I did then and always very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great part of
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what
I had best do, concluding that if the island was sub-
ject to these earthquakes. there would be no living for
me in a cave, but I must consider of Imidling me
some little but in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall as 1 had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men: but conclu-
ded, if I staid where 1 was, I should certainly, one
time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 19th
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to
remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, affected me
so that I never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehen-
sion of lying abroad without any fence, was almost
eqnal to it; but still, when 1 looked about and saw
how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly;
concealed I was, and how safe from danger. it madii
in« very loth to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I ranst be contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it. So with this resolution I
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to build me a wall
nith piles and cables, ceo. in a circle as before: and
set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I
would venture to stay where I was till it was finish-
ed and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider
of means to put this resolve in execution, but I was at
> great loss about my tools. I had three large axes
and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatch-
ets for traffic with the Indians:) but with much chop-
ping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full
of notches and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I
could not turn it and grind my tools too: this cost me
as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a grand point of polities, or a judge upon the
life and death of a man. At length I contrived a
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I
night have both my hands at liberty. AVe, I had
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not
to take notice bow it was done, though since I have
observed it was very common there; besides that ray
grindstone was very targe and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in,
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
Jipril 30. Having perceived my bread had been
Iowa great while, I now took a survey of it, and re-
duced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.
'Afny 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea»
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary; and looked like a cask;
when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or
ttree pieees of the wreak of the ship, which were
driven on shore by the lute burricane; and looking
towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I exandn-
ed the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone;
however, I rolled it farther on shore for the present,
and went on upon the sand :.s near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, 1 found it strangely
removed; the forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six foot; and the stern,
which was broke to pieces, and parted from the rest
toy the force of the sea, soon after I had left rumma-
ging her, was tossed, as it were up, and cast on one
side, and the sand was thrown so high on that side
next her stern, that 1 could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out; whereas there was a great
piece of water before, so that I could not come with-
in a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimmmg.
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must be done by the earthquake; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken open than former-
ly so, many thing's came daily on shore which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from (he design
of removing my habitation; and I busied niysejf
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether I
could make any way into the ship; but I found noth-
ing was to he expected of that kind, for that all the
inside of the ship was choked up with sand: however,
as I learnt not to despair of any tiling, I resolved to
pull every thing to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding, that every thing I could get from her
would be of some use or other to me.
Atay 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of
a beam through, which I thought held some of the up-
per part or quarter-deck together, and when I had
out it through I cleared away the sand ns well as I
could from the side which lay highest; but the tide
coming in, I was Obliged to give over for tlmt time.
4, I went a fishing, but caught not one fnh
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my aport;
when just going to leave off, I caught ayoung dolphin.
I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I
had no hooks, yet 1 frequently caught fish enough, as
much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun,
and ate them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from
the decks, which I tied together, and made swim on
shore when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work;
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
sand had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work, but found the weight of the wreck
had broke itself down, the beams being cut, that sev-
eral pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the in-
side of the hold lay so open, that I could see into it,
but almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water and sand; I wrenched open two
Ilanks, and brought them on shore also with the tide.
left the iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went? to the wreck, and with the crow-
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could
not break them up: I felt also a roll of English lead,
and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, tl, 12, 13, 14. Went"every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, and
boards, or plank, and two or three bundred weight
of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the
edge of one hatchet and driving it with the other;
but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.
Mai/ 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
f
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the
water; but I staid so long in the woods to get pigeons
for food, that the tide prevented my going to the
wreck that day.
JUaylT. I saw some pieces of the wreck blowi
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me,
but resolved to see what they were, and found it was
a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring
away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour 1 loosened some tilings
so much with the crow, that the first flowing tide
several cases floated out, and two of tin; seamen's
ehests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing
came to the land that day but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out, and by this time I had gotten timber,
and plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good
boat, it I had known how; and also I got at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hondred weight
of the sheet-lead.
June IS. Going down to the sea-side,I found >
large tortoise or turtle: this waa the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any de-
fect of the place, or scarcity; for had 1 happened to
be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hondreds of them every day, as 1 found afterwards;
but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle; I fouod
in her three-score eggs; and her flesh was to me at
that time the most savory and pleasant that ever 1
tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and
fowls, since 1 landed in this horrid place.
June IS. Rained all day, and stayed within, t
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly which I knew waa not usual in that
Utitude,
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weath-
er had been cold.
June 28. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help. Prayed to God for the first time since the
storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why;
my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better,but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An agne very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat
took my gun, but found myself very weak; however
I kilted a she goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it and ate. I would fain
liave stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay a
bed all day, and neither ate or drank. I was ready
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had no strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Pray-
ed to God again, but was light-headed; and when I
was not I was so ignorant, that 1 knew not what to say;
only I lay and cried, " Lord, look upon me !"Lord,
pity me, Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose 1.
did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not awake till far in
the night; when I waked, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty: however,
as 1 had no water in my whole habitation, 1 was for-
ced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. la
this second sleep I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earthquake: and that I saw a man descend
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and
light upon the ground; he wta all over as bright as a
Same, so that I could but just bear to look towarfls
him: his countenance was most inexpressibly dread-
ful, impossible for words to describe: when he step-
ped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth-
quake; and all the air looked, to my apprehension,
as if it hsd been filled with flashes of fire. He had
no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved for-
ward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in
his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard
a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the
terror of it: all that I can s:iy I understood was this;
"Seeing all these things have not brought thee to re-
pentance, now thou shall die; at which words I
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor-
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the im-
pression that remained upon my mind when I awaked,
and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas' no divine knowledge: what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father was then
worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation
with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last degree. I do not remember that
I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as
tended either to looking upward towards God, or in-
ward towards a reflection upon my own ways: but a
certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me;
and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking,
wicked creature among our common sailors, can be
supposed to be; not having the least sense, cither of
thefear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to him
in deliverances.
In the relating what is already passed of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall
add, that through all the variety of miseries that had
to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one
thought sf its being the hand of God, or that it was a
just punishment for my sin; either my rebellious be-
haviour against my father, or my present sins, which
were great, or even as a punishment for the general
course of my wicked life. When I was or, the des-
perate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I
never had so much as one thought of what would be-
come of me; or one wish to God to direct me whith-
er I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me as well from voracious
creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite thought-
less of a God or a Providence: acted like a mere
brute, from the principles of nature, and by the dic-
tates of common sense only; and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly
and honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the
least thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I
was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning,
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking
on it as a judgment: I only said to myself often, that
I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always mis-
erable.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of eestacy, and some transports
of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might
have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended
where it began, in a mere common flight of joy, or,
as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the leait
reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand,
which had preserved me, and had singled me out to
be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why Providence had been tbus merciful
to me: just the same common sort of joy which sea-
men generally have, after they are got safe ashorw
from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next
bowl of punch, and forget almost as aoon as it is over:
vol. I. E
all the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was
afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of
my condition,—how I was cast on this dreadful place,
out of the reach of homan kind, out of the hope of
relief, or prospect of redemption,-—as soon as I saw
but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve
and perish for honger, all the sense of my affliction
wore off, and I began to be very easy, applied myself
to the works proper for my preservation and supply,
and was far enough from being afflicted at my con-
dition as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of
God against me: these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my jour-
nal, had, at first, some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I
thought it had something miraculous in it; but as
soon as that part of the thought was removed, all the
impression which was raised from it wore off also, as
I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more
immediately directing to the invisible Power which
alone directs such things, yet, no sooner was the fright
over, but the impression it had made went off also.
I had no more sense of God, or his judgments, much
less of the present affliction of my circumstances be-
ing from his hand, than if I had been in the most
properous condition of life. But now, when I began
to be sick, and a leisure view of the miseries of death
came to place itself before me; when my spirits be-
gan to sink under the burden of a strong distemper,
and nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, began to
awake; and I reproached myself with my past life,
in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wicked-
ness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindic-
tive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for
the second or third day of my distemper; and in the
violence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my conscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God : though I cannot say it
was a prayer attended either with the desires or with
hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and dis-
tress. My thoughts were confused; the convictions
great upon my mind; and the horror of dying in such
a miserable condition raised vapours in my head with
the mere apprehension: and in these horries of my
soul, I knew not what my tongue might express: but
it was rather exclamation, such as, "Lord, what a
miserable creature am I! if I should be sick, I shall
certainly die for want of help; and what will become
of me?" Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I
could say no more for a good while- In this interval,
the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the
beginning of this story, viz. that if I did take this fool-
ish step, God would not bless me; and I should have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery. "Now," said I, aloud, "my dear father's
words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken
me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected
the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put
me in a station of life wherein I might have been
happy and easy; but I would neither see it myself,
nor learn from my parents to know the blessing of it.
I left them to mourn over my folly; and now I am
left to mourn under the consequences of it: I refused
their help and assistance who would have pushed me
in the world, and would have made every thing easy
to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle with
too great for even nature itself to support; and no as-
sistance, no comfort, no advice.'' Then I cried out,
"Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years. But I return to my Journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I
got up; and though the fright and terror of my dream
was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the
ague would return again the next day, and now was
my time to get something to refresh and support my-
self when I should be ill. The first thing I did was
to fill a large square case-bottle with water; and set
it upon my table, in reach of my bed: and to take off
the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put a-
bont a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then I got me a piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about; but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy hearted under a sense of
my miserable condition, dreading the return of my
distemper the next day. At night, I made my sup-
per of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in
the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this
was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's
blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk; but found myself
so weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I nev-
er went without that); solwent buta little way,and
sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
to me: What is this earth and sea, of which I have
seen so much? Whence is it produced? And what
am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, hu-
man and brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are
all made by some secret power, who formed the
earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is that?
Then it followed most naturally,—It is God that has
made all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if
God has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the
power that could make all things must certainly have
power to guide and direct them: if so, nothing can
happen, in the great circuit of his works, either with-
out his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, be
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful con-
dition: and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed all this to befall me. NotU-
>ng occurred to my thought to contradict any of these
conclusions: and therefore it rested apon me -with
the greatest force, that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he
having the sole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happens in the world. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me ? What have
I done to he thus used? My conscience presently
checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed;
and methonght it spoke to me like a roice," Wretch!
dost than ask what thou hast done? Look back npon
a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself, what thou
hast not done? Ask, why is It that thou wert not long
ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yar-
mouth roads; killed in the fight when the ship
was taken by the Sallee man of war; devoured by
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned
fare, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost
thou ask what thou hast done?" I was struck dumb
with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not
a word to say; no, not to answer to myself; and,
rising up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat,
and went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed:
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no
inclination to sleep; so I sat down in the chair and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as
the apprehension of the return of my distemper ter-
rified me very much, it occured to my thought, that
the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for
almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll
of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cur-
ed ; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt: for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned
before, and which to this time I had notfound leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took
it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me
to the table. What use to make of the tobacco I
knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it was
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way .or
other. I first took a piece of the leaf, and chewed it
in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost stupefi-
ed my brain; the tobacco being green and strong,
and such as I had not been much used to. Then I
took some and steeped it an hour or two in some
rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay
down: and, lastly, I burned some upon a pan of
coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as
long as I could bear it; as well for the heat as almost
for suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I
took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head
was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear read-
ing, at least at that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me
were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shall glorify me." These
words were very apt to my case; and made some im-
pression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as
for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my apprehension of things, that, as the children of
Israel said when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" sol
began to say, Can even God himself deliver me from
this place? And as it was not many years that any
hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my
thoughts: but, however, the words made a great im-
pression upon me, and I mused upon them very often.
It now grew late; and the tobacco had, as I said, do-
zed my head so much that I inclined to sleep: so I
left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want
any thing in the night, and went to bed. But before
I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my
life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I cal ed upon him in the day
of trouble, he would deliver me. After my broken,
and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in
which I'had steeped the tobacco; which was so strong
and rank of the tobacco that indeed I could scarce
get it down: immediately upon this I went to bed.
I found presently the rum flew up into my head vio-
lently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this
hour I am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next
day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I know not how I should lose a day out of
my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I had lost it by
crossing and recrossing the Line, I should have lost
more than one day; but certainly. I lost a day in my
account, and never knew which way. Be that, how-
ever, one way or the other, when I awaked, I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively
and cheerful: when I got up, I was stronger than I
was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hongry; and, in short, I had Do fit the next day, but
continued much altered for the better. This was
the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a seafowl or two, something like a brand
goose, and brought them home; but was not very
forward to eat them ; so I ate some more of the tur-
tle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I
renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me
good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum;
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I che,w
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke:
however, I was not so well the next day, which was
the 1st of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I
had a little of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways; and dosed myself with it as at first, and doub-
led the quantity which I drank.
J-uty 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks af-
ter. While I was tbus gathering strength, ray
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture," I will
deliver thee;" and the impossibility of my deliver-
ance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever ex-
pecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
Thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so
much upon my deliverance from Ihe main affliction
that I disregarded the deliverance I had received;
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques-
tions as these, viz. Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully too, from sickness; from the most dis-
tressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful
to me f and what notice have I taken of it? Have I
done my part? God has delivered me, but I have
not glorified him -r that is to say, I have not owned
and been thankful for that as a deliverance: and how
can I expect a greater deliverance? This touched
my heart very much; and immediately I knelt down,
and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it; and imposed upon myself to read awhile eve-
ry morning and every night; not binding myself to
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seri-
ously to this work, that I found my heart more deep-
ly and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my
past life. The impression of my dream revived ; and
the words, " _A11 these things have not brought thee
to repentance'," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was
earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentially, the very same day,
that reading the scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give re-
pentance, and to give remission." I threw down
the book; and with my heart as well as my hands
lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of joy, I cried
out aloud." Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!"
This was the first time in all my life I could say, in
the true sense of the words, that I prayed; for no»-
I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, founded on the encour-
agement of the word of God: and from this time, I
may say, I began to have hope that God would hear
me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, " Call on me, and I will deliverthee," in a dif-
ferent sense from what I had ever done before; for
then I had no notion of any thing being called deliver-
ance, but my being delivered from the captivity I
was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that
m the worst sense in the world. But now I learned
to take it in another sense : now I looked back upon
my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared
so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all
my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing:
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or
think of it: it was all of no consideration in compari-
son with this. And I add this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a
true sense of things, they will find deliverance from
sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from
affliction. But, leaving this part, I return to my
Journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to
my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by con-
stantly reading the Scripture and praying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of com-
fort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; also,
as my health and strength returned, I bestirred me
to furnish myself with every thing that I wanted, and
make my way of living as regular as I could. ,
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chii'rfy
employed in walking about with my gun in my band,
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was gath-
ering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is
hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I
roL. i. E 2
made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what
had never cured an ague before: neither can I re-
commend it to any one to practice, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rath-
er contributed to weakening me; for I had frequent
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learned from it also this, in particular; that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious
thing to my health that could be, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
season was almost always accompanied with such
storms, so I found that this rain was much more dan-
gerous than the rain which fell in September and
October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possibility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believe that no homan shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having secured my habitation,
as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire
to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and
to see what otner productions I might find, which I
yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my
rafts on shore. I found, after I'came about two miles
up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it
was no more than a little brook of running water,
very fresh and good: but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it; at
least not any stream. On the banks of this brook I
found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain,
nooth, and covered with grass: and on the rising
uts of them, next to the higher grounds (where the
waW as it might be supposed never overflowed), I
found^a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to
a very great and strong stalk: and there were divers
other plants, which I had no knowledge of, or under-
•tanding about, and that might, perhaps have virtues
of their own, which I could not find out. I searched
for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that cli-
mate make their hread of, but I could find none. I
saw large plants of aloes,but did not understand thorn.
I saw several sugar canes, but wild; and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time; and came back, musing
with myself what course I might take to know the
virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover; but could bring it to no con-
clusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation
while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the field ; at least, very little that might
serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again i and after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the savan-
nabs begin to cease, and the country become mors
woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits; and particularly I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees: the vines indeed, had spread over the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were now just in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising
discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I
was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of
them; remembering that when I was ashore in Bar-
bary, the eating of grapes killed several of our Eng-
lishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them
into fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an excel-
lent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grape*
or raisins are kept; which I thought would be (ai
indeed they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to
eat, when no grapes were to he had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation i which by the way, was the first
night as I might say I had lain from home. At night,
I took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree,
where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded
on my discovery, traveling near four rojles,as I might
judge by the length of the valley; keeping still due
north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
sides of me. At the end of this march I came to an
opening, where the country seemed to descend to the
west; and a little spring of fresh water, which
issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other
way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
faesh, so green, so flourishing, every thing being in a
constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it looked
like a planted garden. I descended a little on the
side of that delicious vale, surveying it with a secret
kind of pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting
thoughts), to think that this was all my own; that I
was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and
had a right of possession; and, if 1 could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of
cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees, but
all wild, and very few bearing any fruit; at least not
then. However, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and car-
ry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was approaching. In or-
der to this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one
place, a lesser heap in another place; and a great
parcel of limes and melons in another place; and
taking a few of each with me, I traveled homeward;
and resolved to come again, and bring a hag or sack,
or what I could make to carry the rest home. Ac-
cordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave):
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice,
having broken and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but
I could bring only a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
thom, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and abun-
dance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there
were some wild creatures thereabouts which had
done this, but what they were I knew not. Howev-
er, as I found there was no laying them up in heaps,
and no carrying them away in a sack; but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way
they would be crushed with their own weight; 1 took
another course: I then gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hong them upon the out branches of
the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that val-
ley, and the pleasantness of the situation; the secu-
rity from storms on that side ; the water and the
wood: and concluded that I had pitched upon a place
to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst part
of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consid-
er of removing my habitation, and to look out for a
place equally safe as where I was now situate, if pos-
sible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ranjpng in my head; and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of
the place tempting me: but when I came to a near-
er view of it, I considered that I was now by the sea
side, where it was at least possible that something
might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill
fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the game place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate
my bondage, and to render such an affairnot'only im-
probable, but impossible; and that therefore I ought
not by any means toremove. However,I was so enam-
moored of this place, that I spent much of my time
there forthe whole remainingpartofthe month of July;
and though upon second thoughts I resolved, as above
stated, not to remove; yet I built me a little kind of
a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and filled between with brushwood.
Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
nights together; always going over it with a ladder as
before: so that I fancied now I had my country and
my seacoast house. This work took me up till the
beginning of August
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation: for though I
had made a tent like the other, with a piece of sail,
and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of
a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had fin-
ished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August, I found the grapes I had bung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent goood rai-
sins of the sun: so I began to take them down from
the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I
should have lost the best part of my winter food; for
I had above two bundred lafge bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain:
and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it
rained more or less every day till the middle of Oc-
tober; and sometimes so violently that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more of
her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with
three kittens. This was the more strange to me, be-
cause, about theendof August, though I had killed a
wild cat as 1 called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was
quite a different kind from our European cats: yet
Uio young cats were the same kind of house-breed as
the old one; and both of my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three, I af-
terwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I
u-aa forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain; so that I could not stir, and was now very care-
ful not to be much wet. In this confinement I began
to be straitened for food; but venturing out once or
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which
was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was
a treat to me. My food was now regulated tbus t I
ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of
the goat's flesh, or of the turtle broiled for my dinner
(for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil
or stew any thing); and two or three of the turtle'i
eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one side,
till I came to the outside of the hill; and made a door,
or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall:
and so I came in and out this way. But I was not
perfectly easy at lying so open: for as I had manag-
ed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; where-
as now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I conld not
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the
biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island
being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on
my post, and found I had been on shore three bun-
dred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious homilia-
tion, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; and having
not tasted the least refreshment for twelre hoars,
even tiU the going down of the son, I then ate a bis-
cuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. I had all this time observed
no sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of reli-
gion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted
to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch
than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and so did not re-
ally know what any of the days were: but now hav-
ing cast up the days as above, I found I had been
there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and set apart
every seventh day for a sabbath: though I found, at
the end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to
fail me, I contented myself to use it more sparinglv;
and to write down only the most remarkable events
of my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them
so as to provide for them accordingly; but I bought
all my experience before I had it; and what I am
going to relate was one of the most discouraging ex-
periments that I had made at all.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
barley and rice which I had so surprisingly found
sprungupas I thoaght of themselves. I believe there
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of
barley ; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it
after the rains; the sun being in its southern posi-
tion, going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of
ground, as well as I could with my wooden spade, and
dividing it into two parts, 1 sowed my grain; but as I
was sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that
I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know
when was the proper time for it; so I sowed about
two-thirds of the seed,leaving about a handful of each:
and it was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time
came to any thing; for the dry month following, and
the earth having tbus had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and nev-
er came up at all till the wet season had come again,
and then it grew as if it had been but newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily im-
agined was from the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
np a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the
vernal equinox. This having the rainy months of
March and April to water it,sprung up verv pleasant-
ly, and yielded a very good crop; but having only .
part of the seed left, and not daring to sow all that I
had, I got but a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amounting to above half a peck of each kind.
Hut by this experiment I was made master of my bu-
siness, and knew exactly when was the proper time
to sow; and that I might expect two seed times and
two harvests every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to set-
tle, which was about the month of November, I made
a visit up the country to my bower; where, though
I had not been some months, yet 1 found all things
just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that
I had made was not onlyfirmand entire, but the stakes
which I had cut out of some trees that grew there-
abouts, were all shot out, and grown with long branch-
es, as much as a willow tree usually shoots the first
year after lopping its head; but I could not tell what
tree to call it that these stakes were cut from. I was
surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to
grow as much alike as I could: and it is scarce credi-
ble how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years; so that, though the hedge made a circle of
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and
it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all
the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some
more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a sem-
icircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwell-
ing), which I did; and placing the trees or stakes in
a double row, at about eight yards distance from my
first fence, they grew presently; and were at first a
fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for
a defence also; as 1 shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might gen-
erally be divided, not into summer and winter,
AS in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry
seasons, which were generally tbus: From the mid-
dle of February to the middle of April, rainy; the
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the
middle of April till the middle of August, dry; the
sun being then north of the Line. From the middle
of October till the middle of February, dry; the sun
being then to the south of the Line.
^he rainy seasons held sometimes longer and some-
times shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but
this was the general observation I made. After I
had found, by experience, the ill consequences of be-
ing abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself
with provisions beforehand, that I might not be oblig-
ed to go out: and I sat within doors as much as pos-
sible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the
time; for I found great occasion for many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard la-
bour and constant application: particularly, I tried
many ways to make myself a basket; but all the
twigs I could get tor the purpose proved so brittle
that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent
advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used
to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's
in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually are,
verv officious to help, and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and some-
times lending a hand, I had by these means full
knowledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted no-
thing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; 1 resolved
to try. Accordmgly, the next day I went to my
country house, as 1 called it, and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much
as I could desire: wherenpon I came the next time
prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there was great plenty of
them. These I set up to dry within my circle or
hedge; and when they were fit for use, I carried
them to my cave: and here, during the next season,
I employed myself in making, as well as I could, se-
veral baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay
up any thing as 1 had occasion for. Though 1 did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose: and thos af-
terwards I took care never to be without them; and
as my wicker ware decayed, I made more; especial-
ly strong deep baskets, to place my corn in, instead
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold any thing that was liquid, except two
runlets, which were almost full of rum; and some
f lass bottles, some of the common size, and others
which were case bottles) square, for the holding of
waters, spirits, &c. I ha;! not so much as a pot to
boil any thing; except a great kettle which I saved
out of the ship, and which was too big for such use as
1 desired it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meat
by itself. The second thing I would fain have had
was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to
make one; however, I found a contrivance for that
too at last. I employed myself in planting my sec-
ond row of stakes or piles, and also in this wicker
working, all the summer or dry season; when anoth-
er business took me up more time than it could be
imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island; and that I had traveled op the
brook, and Bo on to where I had built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other
aide of the island. I now resolved to travel quite it-
cross to the seashore, on that side: so taking my gun,
a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of pow-
der and shot than usual; with two biscuit-cakes, and
a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store; I
began my journey. When I had passed the vale
where my bower stood, as above, I came within view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day,
I fairly descried land, whether an island or continent
I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from
W. to W. S. W. at a very great distance; by mr
guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues
oft7.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be; otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded by all my observations,
must be near the Spanish dominions: and perhaps
was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was
now. I therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which 1 began now to own and to be-
lieve ordered every thing for the best; I say, I quiet-
ed my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself
with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should certainly one time or other, see some vessel
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eat-
ers, and fail not to murder and devour ull human be-
ings that fall into their hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely
forward, I found this side of the island, where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savan-
nah fields sweetly adorned with flowers aod grau,
and full of jery fine woods. I saw abundance of par-
rots; and fain would have caught one, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak tome.
I did, after taking some pains, catch a young parrot;
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recov-
ered it, I brought it home; but it was some years be-
fore I could make him speak; however, at last I
taught him to call me by my name very familiarly.
Bat the accident that followed, though it be a trifle,
will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to
be, and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself
to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no
need to be venturous: for 1 had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too; especially these
three sorts, viz, goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise.
With these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market
could not have furnished a table better than I, in pro-
portion to the company; and though my case was de-
plorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfuU
ness; as I was not driven to any extremities for food,
but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this journey above two milea
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so ma-
ny turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where
I resolved to sit down for the night; and then I eith-
er reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself
with a row of stakes, set upright in the ground, eith-
er from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature
could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island; for here mdeed the shore was covered
with innumerable turtles; whereas on the other side,
I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some
of which I had seen, and some of which I had not
seen before, and many of them very good meat; but
such as I knew not the names of, except those called
penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was ve-
ry sparing of my powder and shot: and therefore had
more mind to kill a she goat if I could, which I could
better feed on. But though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was
with much more difficulty that I could come near
them, the country being flat and even, and they saw
me much sooner than when I was upon a hill.
I confess this side of the country was much pleas-
anter than mine; yet I had not the least inclination
to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it be-
came natural to me, and it seemed all the while I
was here to be as it were upon a journey, and from
home. However, I traveled along the seashore to-
wards the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again; and that
the next journey I took should be on the other side' of
the island, east from my dwelling, and so round till I
came to my post again : of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island in
my view, that I could not miss my first dwelling by
viewing the country, but I found myself mistaken;
for being come about two or three miles, I found
myself descended into a very large valley, but so
surrounded with bills, and those hills covered with
wood, that I could not see which was my way by any
direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I
knew very well the position of the sun at that time
of the day. And it happened to my farther misfor-
tune, that the weather proved hazy for three or four
days while I was in this valley; and not being able
to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortable,
and at last was obliged to find out the seaside, look
for my post, and come back the same way I went;
and then by easy journeys returned homeward, the
weather being exceedingly hot, and my gun, ammu-
nition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it: and running to take hold of it, I
caught it and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had oft-
en been musing whether it might not be possible to
get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be all spent. I made a collar for this little
creature, and with a string which Ihad made of some
ropeyarn which I always carried about me, lied him
along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my
bower, and there I enclosed him and left him ; for I
was very impatient to be at home, from whence I
had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old butch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. This little wandering journey, without
a settled place of abode had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was
a perfect settlement to me, scompared to that; and
it rendered every thing about me so comfortable, that
I resolved I would never go a great way from it a-
gain, while it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my Pol, who began now to be
more domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had penned within my little circle, and resolv-
ed to fetch it home, and ipve it some food; according-
ly I went, and found it where I left it; for indeed ii
could not get out, but was almost starved for want of
food; I went and cut boughs of trees and branches of
such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and
having fed it, I tied it as I did before to lead it away;
but it was so tame with being bungry, that I had no
need to have tied it: for it followed me like a dog:
and as I continually fed it, the creature became so
loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that
time one of my domesties also, and would never
leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of
my landing on the island, having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of my being delivered
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole
day in bumble and thankful acknowledgments for
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary con-
dition was attended with, and without which it might
have been infinitely more miserable. I gave bumble
and hearty thanks to God, for having been pleased to
discover to me even that it was possible I might be
more happy in this solitary condition than I should
have been in the enjoyment of society, and in all the
pleasures of the world: that he could fully make up
to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the
want of buman society, by his presence, and the com-
munication of his grace to my soul, supporting, com-
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon bis pro-
vidence here, and to hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its miser-
able circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomi-
nable life I led all the past part of my days; and now,
having changed both my sorrows and my joys, my
very desires altered, my affections changed their
guests, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at first coming, or indeed for two years
past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my honting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at
my condition would break out upon me on a sudden,
and my very heart would die within me, to think of
the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and
how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars
and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
without redemption. ID the midst of the greatest
composures of my mind, this would break out upon
me like a itorra, and make me wring my hands, and
weep like a child: sometimes it would take me in
"ie middle of my work, and I would immediately tit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour
or two together: this was still worse to me; but if 1
could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by
words, it would go off; and my grief being exhaust-
ed, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee:"
immediately it occured that vhese words were to me:
. why else should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man ?" Well
then," said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what
ill consequence can that be, or what matters it,
though the world should forsake me; seeing on the
other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the
favour and blessing of God, there would be no com-
parison in the loss?"
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
should ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thought 1 was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thought, and I durst not speak the words, " How
canst thou be such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly,
"to be thankful for a condition, which, however thou
mayst endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" Here I
stopped: but though I could not say I thanked God
for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God
for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providen-
ces, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never o-
pened the Bible, or shot it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my
goods; and for assisting me afterwards to save it out
of the wreck of the ship.
YOI.I. f
Tbus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be observ-
ed, that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly
divided my time, according to the several daily em-
ployments that were before me; such as, first, My
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I
constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day:
secondly, Going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took me up three hours every morning,
when it did not rain: thirdly, Ordering, curing, pre-
serving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply. These took up great part of the day;
also it is to be considered, that in the middle of the
day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of
the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup-
posed to work in ; with this exception, that sometimes
I changed my hours of honting and working, and
went to work in the morning, and abroad with my
gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
be added the extreme laboriousness of my work; the
many hours which, for want of tools, want of help,
and want of skill, every thing I did took up out of my
time: for example, I was full two-and-forty days ma-
king me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in
ray cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and
a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree which -was to
be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days cutting down, and two
more in cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a
log or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips,
till it was light enough to move; then I turned it,
and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board,
from end to end; then turning that side downward,
s»t the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
wee inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Anf
one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece
of work; but labour and patience carried me through
that, and many other things: I only observe this in
particular, to show the reason why so much of my
time went away with so little work, viz. that what
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was
a vast labour, and required a prodigious time, to do
alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with pa-
tience and labour I went through many things; and,
indeed, every thing that my circumstances made nec-
essary for me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug for them was not
great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, having lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season : but now
my crop promised very well; when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again by eno
mies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to
keep from it; as first, the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of
tin; blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came
up, and ate it so close that it could get no time fti
shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but br making an inclo-
sure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great
deal of toil; and the more, because it required speed.
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to
my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures hi
the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long; so in a little time the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to rum
me siow, when it was in the ear: forgoing along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorfe,
swho rtood, a» it were, watching till I should bs gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always bad
my gun with me); I had no sooner shot, but therls
arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not see"h
at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a
few days they would devour all my hopes; that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop
at all; and what to do I could not tell: however, I
resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I
went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that
as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so
great, but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked off,
as if gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they
dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I
was so provoked that I could not have patience to stay
till more came on, knowing that every grain they eat
uow, was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the
consequence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired a-
gain, and killed three of them. This was what I wish-
ed for; so I took them up, and served them as we
serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them
in chains for a terror to others. It is impossible to
imagine that this should have such an effect as it had;
for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in
short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I
could never see a bird near the place as long as my
scarecrows hong there. This I was very glad of, yuu
may be sure; and about the latter end of December,
which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped
my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it
down: and all I could do was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broad swords or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms of the ship. However,
as my first crop was but small, I had no great diffi-
culty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way,
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed il
out with my hands; and at the end of all my harvest-
ing, I found that out of my half peck of seed I had
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and
a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had
no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that in time it would please God to sup-
ply me with bread; and yet here 1 was perplexed a-
gain; for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor
if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it: these
things being added to my desire of having a good
quantity of store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve
it all for seed against the next season; and in the
mean time, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, viz. the strange
multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing
this one article of bread.
I. that was reduced to a mere state of nature,found
this to my daily discouragement, and was made more
sensible of it every hour, even after 1 had got the first
handful of seed-corn. which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no
spade or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by
making a wooden spade, as I observed before; but
this did my work but in a wooden manner; and tho'
it cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want
of fron, it not only wore out the sooner, but made my
work the harder, and performed it much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sown, I had no
harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag
a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as
it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things I wanted to fence it, secure
it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it: then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet
all these things I did without, as shall be observed;
and the corn was an inestimable comfort and advan-
tage to me: all this, as 1 said, made every thing labo-
rious and tedious to me, but that there was no help
for; neither was my time so much loss to me, be-
cause, as I had divided it, a certain part of it was ev-
ery day appointed to these works; and as I resolved
to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater
quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for making corn fit for my use.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade; which, when it was done was but a sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour
to work with it: however I went through that, and
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as
near my house as I could find them to my mind, and
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set bv-fore, and
knew it would grow; so that in one year's time I
knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want but little repair. This work took me up
full three months; because a great part of the time
was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occa-
sipm; always observing, that while I was at work, I
diverted myself with talking to my parot, and teach-
ing him to speak; and I quickly learned him to know
his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty load,
Pol; which was the first word I ever heard spoken
in the island by any mouth but my own. This there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now as I said, I bad a great employment upon my
hands, as follows: I had long studied, by some means
or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which,
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come
at them: however, considering the heat of the cli-
mate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay,
1 might botch up some such pot as might, being dried
in the sun, be hard and strong enough to bear hand-
ling, and to hold any thing that was dry, and requir-
ed to be kept so; and as this was necessary in the
preparing corn, meal, fyc. which was the thing I was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could,
and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be
put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this pastil; what odd, mishapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily ; and how many fell in piece•
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried : and, in a word, how, after labouring hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I could not make above two large eartlk-
en ugly things (1 cannot call them jars), in about two
months' labour. .
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break ; and
as between the pot and the basket there was a littte
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
straw; and these two pots being to stand alwayi dry,
I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the
meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success ; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing that my hand
turned to; and the heat of the sun baked them verv
hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold liquids and bear the fire,
which none of these could do. It happened some time
after, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it out after 1 had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthen ware ves^
•els in the fire, burned as hard as a stone, and red as
a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it: and said
to myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire so as to
make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kilu,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a
pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack at
all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that beat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass,
if I had gong on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till
the pots began to abate of the red colour; and watch-
ing them all night that I might not let the fire abate
too fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will
not say handsome pipkins, and two other earthen pots,
as hard burnt as could be desired; and one of them
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I want-
ed no sort of earthen ware for my use ; but I must
needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were very
indifferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way
of making them but as the children make dirt pies,
or as a woman would make pies that never learned
to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever e-
qual to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
tience to stay till they were cold before I set one on
the fire again, with some water in it to boil me some
meat, which it did admirably well; and with a piece
or a kid I made some very good broth, though I
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requi-
site to make it so good as I would have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was
at a great loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was
as perfectly unqualified for a stone cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big e-
nough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but
could find none at all, except what was in the solid
rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out: not
indeed were the rocks in the island of sufficient hard-
ness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pes-
tle, nor would break the corn without filling it with
sand: so, after a great deal of time lost in searching
for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much
easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with
ray axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire,
and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I
made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood cal-
led iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by a-
gaitut I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed
voI.I. V*
to myself to grind, or rather pound my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve or scarce, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
busk, without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even
but to think on; for I had nothing like the necessary
tiling to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff to
scarce the meal through. Here I was at a full stop
for many months; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags ;1 had
goats' hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor
spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools to
work it with: all the remedy I found for this was,
at last recollecting I bad among the seamen's clothes
which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of
calico or muslin, with some pieces of these I made
three small sieves, proper enough for the work; and
tbus I made shift for some years: how I did after-
wards I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be consider-
ed, and how I should make bread when I came to
have corn: for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part
there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern
myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed
puzzled. At length I found out an expedient for
that also, which was this; I made some earthen ves-
sels, very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about
two feet in diameter, and not above nine inches deep:
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other,
and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire' upon my hearth, which I had pav-
ed with some square tiles, of my own making and
burning also; but I should not call them square.
When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or
live coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so
as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and covering
them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to
the heat; and thos, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley loaves, and became, in a
little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain; for
I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice;
but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them
except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here 5
for, it is to be observed, in the intervals of these things,
I had my new harvest and hosbandry to manage: I
reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as
well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in ; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, inso-
much that now I resolved to begin to use it freely;
for my bread had been quite gone a great while: I
resolved also to see what quantity would be sufficient
for me a whole year, atad to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could con-
sume in a year; so 1 resolved to sow just the same
quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, Sec.
All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I was not without some secret wishes that
I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main
land, and an inhabited country, I might find some
way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps
at last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and that I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers ot
Africa; that if I once came in their power, I should
run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being
killed, and perhaps of being eateu; for I had heard
that the people of the Carribbean coast were canni-
bals, or man-eaters, and I knew, by the latitude, that
I could not be far off from that shore. Then suppo-
•ing they were not cannibals, yet that they might kill
me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen in-
to their hands, even when they have been ten or
twenty together; much more I, who was but one,
and could make little or no defence; all these things,
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and
did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, took up none
of my apprehensions at first; yet my head ran migh-
tily upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain: then I thought I would go and look
It our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown
up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when
we were first cast away. She lay nearly where she
did at first, but not quite; having turned'by the force
of the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward,
against a high ridge or beachy rough sand; but no
water about her, as before. If I had had hands to
have refitted her, and to have launched her into the
water, the boat would have done very well, and I
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easi-
ly enough; but I might have foreseen, that I could
no more turn her and set her upright upon her bot-
tom, than I could remove the island; however, I
went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
•oulddo; suggesting to myself, that if I could but
turn her down, and repair the damages she had re-
aelred, she would be a very good boat, and I might
venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un-
dermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the
fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her
up again, or get under her, much less to move her
forward towards the water: so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased,
rather than diminished, as the means for it seem-
ed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not pos-
sible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as
the natives of those climates make, even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands, of the trunk of a
great tree. This I not only thought possible, but
easy, and pleased myself extremely with the idea of
making it, and with my having much more conven-
ience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians: but
not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. the
want of hands to move it into the water when it was,
made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them: for what could it avail me, if, after 1 had cho-
sen my tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and
might be able with my tools to hew and dub the out-
side into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut
out the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a
boat of it if, after all this, I must leave it just where
I found it; and was not able to launch it into the water.
One would imagine, if I had had the least reflec-
tion upon my mind of my circumstances while I was
making this boat, I should have immediately thought
how I was to get it into the sea: but my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage in it that I never once
considered how I should get it off the land; and it
was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five
fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the
water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fsol
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determin-
ing whether I was able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launchmg my boat came often'into my
head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries mto it, by
this foolish answer: Let me first make it; I warrant
I will find some way or other to get it along when it
is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the ea-
gerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went.
I felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether
Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the
Temple of Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches di-
ameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet, where it lessened, and then parted into branch-
es. It was not without infinite labour that I felled
this tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at
the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut off:
after this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to
a proportion, and to something like the bottom of a
boat, that it might swim upwright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the in-
side, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of
it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet
and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big
enough to have carried six and twenty men, and con-
sequently big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really much
bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was
made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure; and there remained
nothing but to get it into the water; which, had I ac-
complished, I make no question but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to
be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me; though they cost me inexpressible labour too.
It lay about one hondred yards from the water, and
not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this dis-
couragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity: this I begun, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains; (but who grudge
pains that have their deliverance in view ?) when this
was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it
was still much the same, for I could no more star the
canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measur-
ed the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock
or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing
I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work; and when I began to enter
upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how
broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found by
the number of hands I had, having none but my own,
that it must have been ten or twelve years before I
could have gone through with it; for the shore lay so
high, that at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with great
reluctaney, I was at length obliged to give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort as before;
for, by a constant study and serious application to the
word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I
gained a different knowledge from what I had before;
I entertained different notions of things; I looked
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed,
no desires about: in a word, I had nothing to do with
it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it looked,
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a
place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well
might I say, as father Abrabam to Dives, " Between
me and thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the
wickedness of the world; I had neither the last of
the flesh, the last of the eye, nor the pride of life. I
had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now ca-
pable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor;
or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor
over the whole country which I had possession of;
there were no rivals; I had no competitor, none CD
dispute sovereignty or command with me: I might
have raised ship loadings of corn, but I had no use for
it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. 1 had tortoise or turtle enough, but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use:
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships;
and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to
have cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when
it had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valua-
ble: I had enough to eat and supply my wants, and
what was the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than
I could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sow-
ed more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled; the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground;
I could make no more use of them than for fuel, aiul
that I bad no other occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are of no farther good to us than
tor our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give to others, we enjoy only as much as we can use,
and no more. The most covetous griping miser iit
the world would have been cured of the vice of cove-
tousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had
no room for desire, except it was for things which I
had not, and they were comparatively but trifles,
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted
before, a parcel of money, aa well gold as silver,
about thir^-rix pounds sterling. Alas! there th*
nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of
business for it; and I often thought within myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco pipes, or fora handmill to grind my corn; nay,
I would have given it all for sixpenny worth of turnip
and carrot seed from England, or for a handful of
peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had
not the-least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the
damp of the cave in the wet seasons ; and if I had had
the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same
case—they had been of no manner of value to me be-
cause of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
more comfortable in itself than it was at first, and
much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. I
frequently sat down to meet with thankfuhiess, and
admired the hand of God's providence, which had
tbus spread my table in the wilderness: I learned to
look more upon the bright side of my condition, and
less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoy-
ed rather than what I wanted: and this gave me
sometimes such secret comforts that I cannot express
them ; and which I take notice of here, to put those
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy
comfortably what God has given them, because they
see and covet something that he has not given them.
All our discontents about what we want appeared to
me to spring from the want of thankfuluess for what
we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall into
such distress as mine was: and this was, to compare
my present condition with what I at first expected it
would be : nay, with what it would certainly have
'keen, if the good providence of God had not wonder-
Cully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore,
where I not only could come at her, but could bring
what I got out of her to the shore, for my relief and
comfort; without which, I had wanted for tools to
work, weapons for defence, and gunpowder and shot
for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in rep-
resenting to myself, in the most lively colours, how I
must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship-
I could not have so much as got any food, except fish
and turtles; and that, as it was long hefore I found
any of them, I must have perished; that I should have
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that
if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I
had no way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from
the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but mus»
gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like
a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible or tne
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful for
my present condition, with all its hardships and mis-
fortunes; and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery,
to say, Is any affliction like mine? Letthem consider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
their case might have been, if Providence had thought
fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes: and this was compar-
ing my present condition with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the baud of
Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly des-
titute of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been
well instructed by my father and mother; neitherhad
they been wanting to me, in their endeavours to infuse
an early religious awe of God into my mind, a sense
of my duty, and what the nature and end of my being
required of me. But, alas! falling early into the sea-
faring life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of
the fear of God, though his terrors are always before
them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life and
seafaring company, all that little sense of religion
which I had entertained was laughed out of me by'
my messmates; by a hardened despising of dan-
gers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to
me; by my long absence from all manner of oppor-
tunities to Converse with any thing but what was like
myself, or to hear any thing that was good, or tending
towards it.
So void was I of every thing that wat good, or of
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portugueae
master of a ship, my being planted so well in the Bra-
zils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like,) I never had once the words, Thank God, so
much as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the
greatest distress had I so much as a thought to pray
to him, or so much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon
me! no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it
was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
J had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences
had attended me since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bouutifully with me,—had not
only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved,
but had so plentifully provided for me,—this gave me
great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and
that God had yet mercies in store for me.
XVith these reflections, I worked my mind up, not
only to a resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had
not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so
many mercies which J had no reason to have expect-
ed in that place, that I ought never more to repine at
my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks
for that daily bread, which nothing but a cloud of
wonders could have brought; that I ought to consid-
er I had been fed by a miracle, even as great as that
of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of
miracles: and that I could hardly have named a place
in the uninhabitable part of the world where I could
have been cast more to my advantage ; a place where,
as I had no society, which was my affliction on one
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves
or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous or poisu-
nous creatures which I night feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as
my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life
of mercy another: and I wanted nothing to make it
a life of comfort, but to make myself sensibleof God's
goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these
things, I went away, and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water, a
Htle and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of
the month on which any remarkable thing happened
to me: and, first by casting up times past, 1 remem-
ber that there was a strange concurrence of days in
the various providences which befell me, and which,
if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days
as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day af-
terwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, and
made a slave; the same day of the year that I esca-
ped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same day-year afterwards I made my escape from
Sallee in the boat; and the same day of the yearl was
born on, viz. the 30th of September,thatsame day I had
my life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after,
when I was cast on shore in this island: so that my
wicked life and my solitary life began both on one
day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the buiscuit which I brought
out of the ship: this I had busbanded to the last de-
gree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a day
for above a year; and yet I was quite without bread
for near a year before I got any corn of my own; and
great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at
all, the getting it being, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to
linen I had none for a great while, except some che-
quered shirts which I found in the chests of the oth-
er seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because
many times I could bear no clothes on but a shirt;
and it was a very great help to me that I had, among
all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen
of shirts. There were also, indeed, several thick
watch-coats of the seamen's, which were left, but
they were too hot to wear: and though it is true that
the weather was so violently hot that there was no
need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked, no,
though I had been inclined to it, which I was not,
uor could I abide the thought of it, though I was all
alone. The reason why I could not go quite naked
was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of
the sun beating with such violence as it does in that
place, would give me the head-ach presently, by
darting so directly upon my head, without a cap or
hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put
on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider abont put-
ting the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into
some order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had,
and my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats that I had by me,
and with such other materials as I had; so I set to
work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I
made most piteous work of it. However I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while: as for breech-
es or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed
till afterwards.
I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all tin;
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and
I had bung them up, stretched out with sticks, in the
sun, by which means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit for little, but others I found
very useful. The first thing I made of these was a
great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside,
to shoot off the rain; and this I performed so well,
that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of
the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches o-
pen to the knees, and both loose; for they were rath-
er wanting to keep me cool than warm. I must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly
made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse
tailor. However they were such as I made very
good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it hap-
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap be-
ing uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella: I was indeed in a great want
of one, and had a great mind to make one; I had
Been them made in the Brazils, where thev were
very useful in the great heats which are there; and
I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox: besides us I was obli-
ged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to
me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains at it, and was a great while before I could
make any thing likely to hold ; nay after I thought I
had hit the way I spoiled two or three before I made
one to my mind; but at last I made one that answer-
ed indifferently well : the main difficulty I found was
to make it to letdown; I could make it spread, but if it
did not let down too, and draw in, it was not portable
for me any way but just over my head, which would
Hot do. However, at last, as 1 said, I made one to
•Mirer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
•o that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept
on "W.TOQ «o effectually that I could walk out in tbt
hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I
could before in the coolest; and when I had no need
<£ it, could close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thos I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether tbus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say,
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not bet-
ter than the utmost enjoyment of homan society in
the world?
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary tiiing happened to me, but I lived on in
the same course, in the same posture and place, just
as before; the chief things I was employed in, be-
sIdes my yearly labour of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one
year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this year-
ly labour and my daily pursuit of going out with my
gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe, which at
last I finished: so that by digging a canal to it of six
feet wide and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which
was so vastly big, as 1 made it without considering
beforehand, at I ought to do, how I should be able to
launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to
be wiser the next time: indeed the next time, though
I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place
where I could not get the water to it at any less dis-
tance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet nsjl
saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over:
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour in hopes of having a boat to go off
to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it vu not at all answerable to the de-
sign which I had in view when I made the first; I
mean of venturing over to the terra firma, where it
was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the small-
ness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design,
and now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat,
my next design was to make a cruise round the isl-
and; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land,
so the discoveries I made in that little journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast; and
now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing
round the island.
For this purpose, that I might do every thing with
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in
my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pie-
ces of the ship's sails which lay in store, and of which
I had a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast
and sail, and tried the boat I found she would sail
very well: then I made little lockers, or boxes, at
each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries,
ammunition, £src. into, to be kept dry, either from
rain or the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hol-
low place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I
could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of
the sun offme, like an awning; and thos I every
now and then took a httle voyage upon the sea: but
never went far out, nor far from the little creek. At
last, being eager to view the circumference of my lit-
tle kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and accor-
dingly I victualed my ship for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of loaves, (cakes I should rather call them)
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice
(a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and
two large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests; these
I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in
the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than
I expected; for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found
a great ledge of rocks lie oat about two leagues into
the sea, some above water, some under it; and be-
yond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more.
ao that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to grre
over my enterprise, and come back again, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and,
above all, doubting how I should get back again ; to
I came to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of
an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I
got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went
on shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to 0-
verlook that point, where I saw the full extent of ft.
and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed'a most furious car-
rent, which ran to the east, and even came close to the
point; and I took the more notice of it, because I
saw there might be some danger, that when I came"
into it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength
of it, and not be able to make the island again : and,
indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it
would have been so; for there was the same current
on the other side the island, only that it set off at *
farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do but to get
out of the first current, and I should presently be in
;ui eddy.
I lay here however, two days, because the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E. *«l that being just
contrary to the said current, made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore fbr the breach, nor to
go too far off because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having a-
VQ*. a. G
bated over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
hut lama warning piece again to all rash and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I
found myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill; it carried my boat along
with it with such violence that all I could do could not
keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found
it horried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on my left hand. There was no wind stir-
ring to help me, and all I could do with my paddlea
Signified nothing: and now I began to give myself
over for lost; tor as the current was on both sides of
flte island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did
I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no
prospect before me but of perishing, not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big aU
most as 1 could lift, and had tossed it into the boat:
and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say,
ojte of my earthen pots; but what was all this to be-
ing driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure,
there was no shore, no main land or island, fora thou-
aand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of God to make even the most miserable condition of
mankind worse. Now I looked back upon my des-
date, solitary island, as the most pleasant place tn the
'world; and all the happiness my heart could wisk
for was to be there again. I stretched out my lands
to it with eager wishes: "O happy desert!" said L
* I shall never see thee more. O miserable creature!
irtither am I going!" Then I reproached myself
with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined
at my solitary condition; and now what would I give
to be on shore there again! Thos we never see the
true state of our condition till it it illustrated to us by
iU contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy,
but by the want of it . It is scarce possible to '"<Tgvsa
(he consternation I wat now in, being driven from tof
beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be),
into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in thp
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. Howev?-
er, I worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost
exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the north-
ward, that is, towards the side of the current which
the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about
noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt
a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little, and especial-
ly when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful dis-
tance from the island, and had the least cloudv or ha*
zy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it ; but the weath-
er continuing clear,! applied myself to get up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the
north as much as possible, to get out of the current
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat Be-
gan to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of
the water some alteration of the current was near;
for where the current was so strong, the water was
foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the cm>
rent abate; and presently I found to the east, at a-
bout half a'mile, a breach of sea upon some rocks e
these rocks I found caused the current to part again,
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other re-
turned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a
strong eddy, which run back again to the north-west,
with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
been in such-like extremities, may guess what my
present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my
boat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind also
freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running
•beerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
•ddy wmier foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my waj
buck again, directly towards the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current
which carried me away at first: so that when I came
near the island, I found myself open to the northern
shore of it, that is to say, the other end of the island,
opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it
was spent, and served me no farther. However, 1
found that being between two great currents, vi».
that on the south side, which had burried me away,
and that on the north, which lay about a league on the
other side; I say, between these two, in the wake of
the island, I found the water at least still, and run-
ning no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair
for me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, beng then with-
in a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this disaster, stretching out)
as is described before, to the southward, and casting
off the current more southerly, had, of course, made
another eddy to the north; and this I found very
strong, but not direct'y setting the way my course lay,
which was due west, but almost full north. Howev-
er, having a fresh gsle, I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, caras
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being
smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and n>-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I brought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of th*
voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get horne
"with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and kne»
too much of the case, to think of attempting it by the
Wa I went out; and what might be at the other afr
(I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any
mind to run any more ventures ; ao I only resolved ID
the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might
lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if
I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts,
coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay,
about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very con-
venient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for
her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat ve-
ry safe, I went on shore, to look about me, and see
where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began
my march. The way was comfortable enough after
such a voyage as I had been upon, and 1 reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found every thing
standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good or-
der, being, as I said before, my country house.
I got over the fence and laid me down in the shade,
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep:
but judge, you, if you can, that read my story, whata
surprise I must be in, when I was awakened out of
ray sleep by a voice, calling me by name several
times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin
Crusoe! % Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where
have you been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did
not wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping
and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke
to me; but as the voice continued to repeat " Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to wake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened,
and started up in the utmost consternation; but no
•oooer were my eyes open, but I saw my Pol
sitting on the top of the hedge; and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me: for just m
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly
that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close
to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe! Where
are you? Where have you been s* How came you
here ?" and such things as I bad taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he should
just keep about the place, and no where else: but as
I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Pol,
I got over it: and holding out my hand, and calling
him by his name, Pol, the sociable creature came to
me, and sat upon my tbumb, as he used to do, and
continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been ? just
as if he had been overjoyed to see me again: and so
I carried him home along with me.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for sometime,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still, and
reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my
side of the island; but I knew not how it was prac-
ticable to get it about. As to the east side of the isl-
and, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart
would shrink, land my very blood run chill, but to
think of it; and as to the other side of thdHsland, I
did not know how it might be there; but supposing
the current ran with the same force against the shore
at the east as it pnssed by it on the other, I might run.
the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
earned by the island, as I had been before of being
oariped away from it; so, with these thoughts, I con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had
been the product of so many months' labour to make
it, and of so many more to get it into the sea-
Iji this government of my temper I remained usat
a year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may
well suppose; and my thoughts being very much
composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted m
resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I
thought I lived really very happily in all things, e«-
cept that of society.
s I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe I could,upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering
how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthen ware, and contrived well enough to
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely ea-
sier and bettei*; because I made things round and
shapable, which before were filthy things indeed to
look on. But I think I was never more vain of my
own performance,or more joyful for any thing I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco pipe
and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like other earthen-
ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted \vith it; for I
Tiad always been used to smoke:' and thare were
Jiipes in the ship, but I forgot them at fifst, not think-
Jang that there was tobacco in the island; and after-
wards, when I searched the ship again, I could not
come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also I improved much, and made
abundance^of necessary baskets, as well JIB my inveor
tion showed me; though not very handsome, yet
they were such as were very handy and convenient
for my laying things up in, or fetching things home.
.For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang
tit up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in piece*,
and bring it home m a basket; and the like by a tu>
«le: I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece
or twoof the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring
them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me.
'Also large deep baskets were the receivers of my
torn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
ami cured, and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated consid-
erably: this was a want which it was impossible foi
me to supply, and I began seriously to consider what
I must do when I should have no more powder; that
a to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
it observed, in the third year of my being here, kept
a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was m
hopes of getting a he-goat t but 1 could not by any
means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat;
snd as I never could find in my heart to kill her, she
died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I
let myself to study some art to trap and snare the
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive; and particularly, I wanted a she goat great
with young. For this purpose, 1 made snares to
hamper them; and I do believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good,
for I had no wire, and I always found them broken,
tad my bait devoured. At length I resolved to try a
pitfall: so I dug several pits in the earth, in places
where Ihad observed the goats used to feed, and
ever those pits I placed hordles, of my own making
too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put my ears of barley and dry rice, without
letting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the
goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could
•ee the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten f 4 gone;
this was very discouraging. However, I altered my
traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going
one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them
a large old he-goat, and in one of the others three
kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him;
that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive,
which was what I wauted; I could have killed him,
but that was not my business, nor would it answer mv
end; so 1 even let him out, and he ran away as if Ii*
had been frightened out of his wits. But I did not
then know what I afterwards learned, that honger
will tame a lion. If 1 had let him stay there i.'ir.•*
or four days without food, and then have carried som*
water to drink, and then a little corn, he would havs
been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighfv
sagacious, tractable creatures,' where they are wofl
used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time: then 1 went to the three ki:ls,
MMl taking them one by one, I tied them with string
together, and with some difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would .feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them,and
they began to be tame. And now 1 found that if I e»-
'pected to supply myself with goat's flesh when 1 had
no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was
my only way; when, perhaps, I might have them »'
bout my house like a flock of sheep. But then it o»-
corred to me, that I must keep the tame from t&B
wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up: and the only way for this was, to havt
some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either
with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually
that those within might not break out, or those with-
out break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity for dofhg
it, my first work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, where there was likely to be herbage ft)r
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to
keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I
ltnd very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a
place very proper for all these (being a plain open
piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people cull
it in the western colonies), which had two or three
jittle drillt of fresh water in it, and at one end wat
vol. I. JB2
very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them, I began by enclosing this piece
of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale
must have been at least two miles about. Nor was
the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it
was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough
to do it in ; but 1 did not consider that my goats would
be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the
whole island, and I should have so much room to
chase them in that I shouldiiever catch them. ,
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe a-
bout fiftv yards, when this thought occurred to me;
so I presently stopped short, and for the first begin-
ning I resqjved to enclose a piece of about one bun-
dred and fifty yards in length, and one bundred yards
in breadth, which as it would maintain as many as I
should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock
increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the bestpart of it, and u»-
ed them to feed as near me as possible, to make them
familiar; and very often I would go and carry them
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; so that after my enclosure was
finished, and 1 let them loose, they would follow me
up and down, bleating after me for a handful of com.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all;
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food; and after
that 1 enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted them; and gates out of one piece
of ground into another. .
Bat this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, uthing
which indeed in the beginning I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
"*M really an agreeable surprise; for now I get u£
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk
in a day. And as nature who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to
make use of it; so I, that had never milked a cow much
less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very read-
ily and handily, though after a great many essays and
miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last,
and never wanted it afterwards. {
How mercifully can our Creator treat his creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be
overwhelmed in destruction .' How canjie sweeten
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise
him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was
here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw noth-
ingi at first, but to perish for bunger!
It would have tnade a stoic smile to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dmner: there was
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island;
I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute com-
mand; I could bang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and no rebels among all my subjects. Then
to sea how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended
by my servants! Pol, as if he had been my favourite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My
dog, who was now grown very old and 4razy, and had
found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always
at my right hand; and two cats, one on one side of
the table, and one on the other, expecting now and
then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first, for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred neu#my habitation by my own
hand; but one of them haVmg multiplied by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I
had preserved tame; whereas the rest run wild in the
woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last;
for they would often come into my house, and plun-
der me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them,
and did kill a great many; at length they left me.—
With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner, I
lived; neither could I be said to want any thing but
•oriety: and of that, some time after this, I was like
to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to
hau: the use of my boat, though very loath to run
any more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough with-
out her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind
to go down to the point of the island, where, asl have
ntid, in my last ramble, I went up the hil I to see how
the shore lay, and how the current set, that 1 might
•ce what I had to do: this inclination increased upon
me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thith-
er by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so;
but had any one in England been to meet such a man
AS I was, it ir.ust either have frightened him, or raised
a great deal of laughter: and asl frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the no-
tion of my traveling through Yorkshire, with such an
aquipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a
dtutch ot'my figure, as follows:
I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of agoat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me as to shoot the rain olFfrom running
into my neck: nothing being so burtful in these cli-
mates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the. same; the breeches
were made of the skin of an.ofd he-goat, whose hair
bung down such a length on either side, that, like
pantaloons, it reaehcd'Mhthe middle of my legs:
•tockings :uid shoes I had none, but. had made me a
pair of somethings, I scarce know what to call them,
like buskins, to ;iap over my legs, and lace on either
ode like spatterdashes: but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of
instead of a sword and dagger, bung a little igw
and ft hatchet; one on one side, and one on thaothep.
I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the
snmt; manner, which bung over my shoulder; and at
the end of it, under my left arm, bung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too; in one of which bung
my powder, in the other my shot. At my hack I
Carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun ; and
Over my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat's skin um-
brella, but which, after all, was the most necessary
thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my
face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto like as
one might expect from a man not at all careful of it,
and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinoi.
My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was
about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scis-
sors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short,
except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mabometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did: of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not say
dey were long enough to hang my hat upon them,
but they were of a length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as, in England, would have passed
for frightful.
But all this is by the by; for, as to my figure, I
had so few to observe'tne that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I traveled first along the seashore,
directly to the place where! first brought my boat to
an anchor, to get upon theflkks; and having no boat
now to take care of, I ucnwner the land, a nearer
way, to the same height that I was upon before;
when looking forward to the point of the rocks which
lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my
boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea
all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no cur-
rent, any more there than in any other places. I
was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved
to spend some time in the observing it, to see if noth-
ing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; bat i
was presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide
of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the cur-
rent of waters from some great river on the shore,
must be the occasion of this current; and that accor-
ding as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or from the north, this current came nearer, or went
.farther from the shore; for waiting thereabouts till
evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current
again as before, only that it ran farther off, being near
half a league from the shore; whereas in my case, it
set close upon the shore, and burried me and my ca-
noe along with it; which, at another time, it would
not have done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again: but when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits, at the
remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any patience; bat, on
the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious; and this was, that
I would build, or rather make me another periagua
or canoe; and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it, under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time,
I had enlarged into sevJBI apartments or caves, one
within another. One oHnese, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall 01
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my
stores of provisions, especially my corn, some in the
far, cut off short from the straw, and the other Bib-
bed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view,
of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther with-
in the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and
sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in its
season : and whenever I had occasion for more corn,
I had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat: and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also: for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair;
that is to say, 1 kept the hedge which encircled it in
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, which
at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, always cut so that they
might spread and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable shade; which they did effectually to
my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent al-
ways standing, being a piece of a sail spread over
poles, set up for that purpose, and which never want-
ed any repair or renewing; and under this I had
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things;
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our
seabcdding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion
to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my coun-
try habitation.
Adjoining to this I had mf enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say my goats; and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground,
1 was so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats
should break through, that I never left off, till, with
infmite labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge
<o full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it WM rather a pale than a hedge, and there VM
Mara room to put a hand through between them;
whieh afterwards, when those stakes grew as thsy all
did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure
strong like a wall,—indeed, stronger than any walL
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and th»t
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable support; for I consid-
ered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thos
at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh, milk,
butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the
place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping
them in my reach depended entirely upon my per-
fecting my enclosures to such a degree, that I might
be sure of keeping them together; which, by thn
method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that whem
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so rery thick, that I was forced to pull some of then
up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of rai-
sins, and which I never failed to preserve very care-
fully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet: and indeed they were not only agreea-
ble, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
freshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where 1 had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thithor;
for I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all
things about, or belonging to her, in very good univn
sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but no
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce eret
above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge
again by the currents or winds, or any other accident.
But now I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, about noon, going towurdj
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was Tety
plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thuu-
<ter»truck, or as if I had seen an apparition 51 listened,
I looked rouud me, bat I could hear nothing, nor MM
any thing;! went up to a rising ground, to look farth-
er; I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it
was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any
more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot:
now it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
least imagine ; but, after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of
myself, I came home to my fortification, not feeling,
is we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the
last degree: looking behind me at every two or three
steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying
every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it
possible to describe how many various shapes my af-
frighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my
fancy, and what strange unaccountable whimseys
came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called
it ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued;
whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called
• door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remem-
ber the next morning: for never frightened hare
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were; which is something contrary to the nature of
fuch things, and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing, that 1 formed nothing
but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must
be the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition; for how should any other thing in homan
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks were there of any
other footsteps? And how was it possible a man
should come there? But then to think that Satan
should take buman shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it,
but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and thai
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure 1
should see it,—this was an amusement the other way.
I considered that the Devil might have found out
abundance of other ways to have terrified me than
this of the single print of a foot; that,as I lived quite
on the other side of the island, he would never have
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it
was ten thousand to one whether 1 should ever see it
or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of
the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced entire-
ly: all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself
and with all the notions we usually entertain of the
subtility of the Devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argne
me out of all apprehensions of its being the Devil;
and I presently concluded then, that it must be some
of the savages of the main land over against me, who
had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either
driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were
gone away again to sea; being as loath, perhaps, tti
have stayed in this desolate island, as I would hare
been to have had them.
While these reflections were rollingupon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so hap-
py as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they
did not see my boat, by which they would have con-
cluded that some inhabitant had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me ; then ter-
rible thoughts racked my imagination about their hir-
ing found my boat, and that there were people here;
and that, if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it
should happen so that they should not find me, yet
they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn,
and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I
should perish at last for mere want.
Tbus my fear banished all my religious hope, all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness; as if he that had fed me by miracle hith-
erto could not ;;reserve, by his power, the provision
which he had made for me by his goodness. I re-
proached myself with my laziness, that would not sow
any more corn one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident would intervene to
prevent my enjoying the' crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought so just a reproof that I re-
solved for the future to. have two or three year's com
beforehand; so that, whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret different springs arc
the affections burried about, as different circumstan-
ces present! To-day we love what to-morrow we
hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we sbun; to-
day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even
tremble at the apprehensions of; this was examplifi-
ed in me, at this time, in the most lively manner iuv
aginable; for I, whose only affliction was thatl seem-
ed banished from homan society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut oft" from
mankind, and condemned to what I called silent life;
that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy
to be numbered among the living, or to appear among
the rest of his creatures: that to have seen one of my
own species would have seemed to me a raising me
from death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heav-
en itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation,
could bestow: I say, that I shouldnow tremble at the
very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready
to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent ap-
pearance of a man's having set his foot in the island.
Such is the uneven state of buman life; and it af-
forded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when I had a little recovered my first surprise.
I considered that this was the station of life the infi-
nite}? vise and good providence of God had deter-
mined for me; that as I could not foresee what tKc
ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was
not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was his
ereature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to
gorern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit;
and who, as I was a creature that had offended him,
had likewise a judical right to condemn me to what
punishment he thought fit; and that it was my part
to submit to bear his indignation,because I had sinned
against him. I then reflected, that as God, who was
not ouly righteous, but omnipotent, had thought fit
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver
me i that if he did not think fit to do so, it was my un-
questioned duty to resign myself absolutely and en-
tirely to his will; and, on the other hand, it was mv
duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to
attend the dictates and directions of his daily provi-
dence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, naj,
I may say, weeks and months; and one particular
effect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot &
mit: One morning early, lying in my bed, and fillei
swith thoughts about my danger from the appearances
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much;
upon which these words of the Scripture came into
my thoughts, " Call upon me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Up-
on this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was
not only comforted, but I was guided and encourag-
ed to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I
bad done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening
it to read, the first words that presented to me were,
* Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he
shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord."
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me-
lu auswt-r, I thankfully laid down the book, and was
no more sad, at least on that occasion.
ID the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions.
«nd reflections, it came into my thoughts one day
dial all this might be a mere chimera of ray own, and
l.iat this foot might be the print of my own foot, \rheo
I came OD shore from my boat: this cheered rue 01
a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all
a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own foot;
and why might I not come that way from the boat,
as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again,!
considered also, that I could by no means tell, fo*
certain, where I had trod and where I had not; and
that if, at last, this was only the print of my own
foot, I had played the part of those fools who try tD
make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
frightened at them more than any body.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provis-
ions; for I had little or nothing within doors but some
barley-cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my eve-
ning diversion; and the poor creatures were in great
pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed,
it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up
their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the
belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my
own feet, and that I might be truly said to start at my
own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to
my country-house to milk my flock: but to see with
what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay
down my basket, and run for my life, it would have
made any one have thought I was haunted with an
evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terri-
bly frightened; and so, indeed, 1 had. However an
I went down tbus two or three days, and having seen
nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think
there was really nothing in it but my own imagina-
tion; but I could not persuade myself fully of this till
I should go down to the shore again, and see this
print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if
there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot: but when I came to the
place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any
where thereabouts: secondly, when I oajnq to iueaa-
gre the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not
so large by a great deal. Both these things filled mr
head with new imaginations, and gave me the vaponn
again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold
like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men had been on
shore there; or, in short, that the island was inhab-
ited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security I knew not
O what ridiculous resolutions men take when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means which reason offers for their relief. The first
tiling I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods lest the enemy should find them, and then
frequent the island in prospect of the same or the
like booty: then to the simple thing of digging up
tny two corn fields, lest they should find such a grain
there, and still be prompted to frequent the island:
then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might
not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted
to look farther, in order to find out the persons in-
habiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogita-
tions after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh
upon me, and my head was full of vapours as above.
Tbus fear of danger is ten thousand times more ter-
rifying than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes;
and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by much,
than the evil which we are anxious about: and, which
was worse than all this, I had not that relief in <'is
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that!
hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who
complained not only that the Philistines were upoo
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying
to God in my distress, and resting upon his provi-
dence, as I had done before, for my defence and dellr-
enmce; which, if I had done, I had at least bee*
*aore cheerfully supported under thia new surprise,
and perhapa earned through it with more resolution
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep; and having,
by the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tir-
ed, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly,
«nd waked much better composed than I had ever
been before. And now I began to think sedately:
«nd upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded
Chat this island, which was so exceedingly pleasanV
fruitful, and no farthe from the main land than as Ihad
seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might imag-
ine; that although there were no stated inhabitants
who lived on the spot, yet that there might some-
times come boats off from the shore, "who, either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven
by cross winds, might come to this place; that I had
lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with
the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and
that if at any time they should be driven here,
ft was probable they went away again as soon as ever
they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most I could sug-
gest any danger from, was from any casual acciden-
tal landing of stragling people from the main, who,
as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills, so they made no stay here, but
Trent off again with all possible speed; seldom stay-
ing one night on shore, lest they should not have ths
belp of the tides and daylight back again; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of •ome
Safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land up-
on the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock: upon maturely considering
fiils, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti-
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, afc a dis-
tance from my wall, just where I had planted a doa-
ble row of trees about twelve years before, of which
I made mention: these trees having been planted so
Giick before, they wanted but few pile* to be driven
, tint they might be thicker and ttroa-
ger, and my wall would be soon finished. So that
I had now a double wall; and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and eve-
ry thing I could think of, to make it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put
my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my
wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the sev-
en holds I contrived to plant the muskets, of which
I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the
ship) these I planted like my cannon, and fitted
them into frames, that held them like a carriage, so
that f could fire all the seven guns in two minutes'
lime. This wall I was many a weary month in finish-
ing, and yet never thought myself safe 1i\\.ft wia
done.
When this was done,I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great length every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch
that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and
my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young treo,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Tbus in two years time I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years time I had a wood before my dwel-
ling, grown so monstrous thick and strong that it was
indeed perfectly impassable; and no men of what
kind soever would ever imagine that there was any
thini beyond it, much less an habitation: as for the
way I proposed myself to go in and out (for I left no
avenue), it was by setting two ladders: one to a part
of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living
could come down to me without mischiefing himself;
and if they had come down, they were still on the
outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures buman prudence oouVd
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen
at length, that they were not altogether without jurt
reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon
me for my little herd of goats; they were not only a
ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder
and shot, but also without the fatigue of bunting after
the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage
of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them : one was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much conceal-
ed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
voung goats in each place; so that if any disaster
Imppenen to the flock in general, I might be able to
wise them again with little trouble and time: and
this, though it would require a great deal of time and
labour, I thought was the most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one,
which was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish
for : it was a little damp piece of ground, in the mid-
dle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is ob-
served, I almost lost myself once before, endeavour-
ing to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near
three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was
almost an enclosure by nature; at least it did not
want near so much labour to make it so as the other
pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so fen-
ced it round that my flock, or herd, call it which you
please, who were not so wild now ai at first they
-might be supposed to be, were well enough scrum!
rot. t. H
ih it: so, without any farther delay, I removed tai
young she goats, snd two he goats, to this piece; and
t»hen they were there, I continued to perfect ths
fence, till I had made it as secure as the other; which,
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
niore time by a great deal. All this labour I was at
the expense of, purely from my apprehensions on the
account of the print of a man's foot which I had seen;
for, as yet, I never saw any homan creature come
near the island; and I had now lived two years un-
der this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my life
much less comfortable than it was before, as may he
Veil imagined by any who know what it is to live in
the constant snare of the fear of man. And thisl
must observe, with grief too, that the discomposure
of my mind had too great impressions also upon the
religious part of my thoughts: fur the dread and
terror of falling into the hands of savages and canni-
bals lay Ki upon my spirits that I seldom found my-
self in a due temper for application to my Maker, at
'least not with the sedate calmness and resignation of
soul which I was wont to do: 1 rather prayed to God
as under great affliction and pressure of mind, sur-
,rounded with danger, and in expectation every night
•f being murdered and devoured before morning; and
1 must testify from my experience, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than thRt of terror and
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to Godj than he is for
* repentance on a sick bed ; for these discomposures
affect the mind, as the others do the body ; and the
discomposure of tin; mind must necessarily be i.s great
a disability as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind,
wit of the body.
But to go on: after I had tbus secured one pan of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place to make such ano-
ther deposit; when wandering more to the west point
ef the island than I had ever done vet, and looking
out to »ea, 1 thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at u
great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's chests, whieh I saved out
nl'imr ship, but I had it not about me; and this was
so remote that I could not tell what to make of it,
though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look auy longer: whether it was a boat OP
not, I do not know, but as 1 descended from the hill ]
could see no more of it; so I.gave it over; only I re-
solved to go no more out without a-perspective glass
in ray pocket. When I was come down the hill to
the end of the island, where, indeed, I had never been
before,I wus presently convinced ilmt the seeing the
print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in.
the island as I imagined : and but that it was a speeinl
providence that I was cast upon the side of the island
where the savages never came, I should easily have
known that nothing was more frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a
little too far out to sea, to shoot over to that side of
the island for harbour: likewise, as they sften met
ami fought in their canoes, the victors, huving taki n
anjr prisoners, would bunt them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all
cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of whidi
hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, aa I
said above, being the S \V. poi'it of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of homan bodies; and particularly, I observed
a place where there had been a fire made, and a uir-
c'.f dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed
the savage wretches had set down to thfir inbuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow creatures.
1 was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it for a long while: all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch ef inhuman.
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
homan nature, which, though I had heard of it often,
yet I never had so near a view of before: in short, 1
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder fmm
my stomach; and having vomited with uncommon vio-
lence,! was a little relieved, but could Dot bear to stay
in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill again
with all the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.
When I came a little out oFthat part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these; and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it that I had still more to
give thanks "for than to complain of: and this, abort
all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been
comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the
hope of his blessing: which was a felicity morethu
sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had
suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before:
for I observed that these wretches never came to tha
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding any thing to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eigh-
teen years, and never saw the least footsteps of hu-
man creature there before; and I might be eighteen
years more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I
did not discover myself to them, which 1 had no man-
ner of occasion to do; it being my only business
keep mysetf entirely concealed where t was, nnlt*
I tbimii a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to. Yet I entertained such an
abhorrence of the savage wretches, thnt I have been
speaking of, and of the wretched inbuman custom of
their devouring and eating one another np, that t con-
tinued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle, for almost two years after this; when I
say my own circle, I mean by it mv three plantations,
viz. my castle, my country seat, which I called my
bower, and my enclosure in the woods: nor did 1
look after this I'or any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me
to these hellish wrett-hes was such, that I was as fear-
ful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself. I
did not so much as go to look after my boat all this
time, but began rather to think of making me anoth-
er; for I could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round tho island to
me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures
at sea; in which, if I had happened to have fallen in-
to their hands, 1 knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as
before; only with this difference, that I used more
caution, and kept my eyes more about rje than I did
before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of tiring
my gun, lest any of them, being on the island, should
happen to hear it. It was therefore a vrry good prov-
idence to me that I had furnished mysrlfwith a tame
breed of goats, nnd that I had no need to hunt any.
more about the woods, or shoot at them ; and if 1 did
catch any of them after this, It was by traps ami
snares, as I had done before: so that tor two year*
after this, I believe I never Sred my gun once on",
though I never went out without it; and, whith was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I
always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my gonUtin belt. I also foe-
fcished up one of the great cutlasses that T had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; 80
that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if you add the former descrip-
tion of myself, ths particular of two pistols, and *
great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but
without a scabbard.
Things going on tbus, as I have said, for some time,
Iseemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these
things tended to show me, more and more, bow far
my condition was from being miserable, compared to
some others; nay, to many other particulars of life,
which it might have pleased God to have made my
lot. It put me upon reflecting how little repining
there would be among mankind at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition
with those that were worse, in order to he thankful,
than be always comparing them with those which are
better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which "I wanted, so, indeed, I thought
that the frights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own
preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention
for my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good
design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much
upon, smd that was, to try if I could not make some
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself
some beer. This was really a whimsical thought,
and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it;
for I presently saw there would he the want of seve-
ral things necessary to the making >ny beer, that it
would be impossible for me to supply: as, first, casks
to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have ob-
served already, I could never compass: no, though I
spent not only msny days, but weeks, nay months, in
attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place,
I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet
'with all them things wanting, I verijy believe, hid
not the frights and terrors I was in about the Ravages
intervened, 1 had undertaken it, and perhaps brought
it to pass too; tor 1 seldom gave any thing over with-
out accomplishing it., when once I had it in my head
to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another
way; for, night and day, I could think of nothing but
how I might destroy some of these monsters in their
cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim thev should bring hitherto destroy. It would
take up a larger volume than this whole work is in-
tended to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatch-
ed, or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the
destroying these creatures, or at least frightening
them so as to prevent their coming hither any more:
but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible
to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it my-
self: and what could one man do among them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them to-
gether, with their darts, or their bows and arrows,
with which they shoot as true to a mark as I could
with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and putting in five
or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kind-
'led their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I
should be unwilling to waste so tduch powder upon
them, my store being now within the quantity of on*
barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at
any certain time, when it might surprise them; and
at best, that it would do little more than just blow the
fire about their ears, and fright them, but not suffi-
cient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it a^
side; and then proposed that I would place myself
in ambush in some convenient plac=, with my three
guns all double loaded, and in the middle of their
bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be
sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every
shot; and then falling in upon them with my three
pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt but that 1C
Uteri; were twenty I should kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thoughts for some weeks; and I was s*
fall of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes,
that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my imagination, that I em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places
to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for
them ; and I went frequently to the place itself, which
was now grown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thos filled with thoughts of revenge, and a
bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword,
as I may call it, the horror I had at the place,
and at the signals of the barbarous wretches de-
touring one another, abetted my malice. Well,
at length, I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely" wait till I saw
Any of their boats coming: and might then, even be-
fore they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into some thicket of trees, in one of
which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me
entirely; and there I might sit and observe all their
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together as that it would be
next to impossible that 1 should miss my shot, or that
I could fail wounding three or four of them at the first
ihot. In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design;
and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my or-
dinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four of five smaller
bulletsabout the size of pistol bullets; and the fowl-
ing-piece I loaded with near a handful of swanshot of
the largest size: I also loaded my pistols with about
four bullets each; and in this posture, well provided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I
urepaied myself for my expedition.
After I had tbus laid the scheme of my design. and,
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually
ipade my tour every morning up to the top of the
hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about
three miles or more, to see if I could observe anv
Uoats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing
over towards it: but I began to tire of this hard duty,
after I had, tor two or three months, constantly kept
my uatctt, but came always back without any discov-
ery: there having not, in all that time, been the
least appearance not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could'
reach every way.
As long as 1 kept my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also 1 kept up the vigour of my design,.
and mv spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
form for so outrageous' an execution as the killing
twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence which I
had not at all entered into any discussion of in mr
thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural cus-
tom of the people of that country ; who, it seems, had
been suffered by providence, in his wise disposition of
the world, to have no other guide than that of their
nwn abominable and vitiated passions: and, conse-
quently, were left, and perhaps had been so for seme
ages, to act such horrid thins .s, and receive such. dread-
ful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandon-
ed by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degen-
raey, could have run them into: But now, when as I
have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excur-
sion which I had made so long and so far every morning
in vain, so my opinion of-the action itself began to al-
ter; and I began,. with cooler and calmer thoughts, to
consider what I'was going-to engage in ; what author-
ity or call 1 had to pretend to be judge and execu-
tioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven
had thought fit, for so many ages to sutler, unpunish-
ed, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners
of his judgments one upon another. How far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I
bad to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they
shed promiscuously upon one another, I debated this
vcry often with myself thns-: How do I know what
God himself judges in this particular case? It is cer-
tain these people do not commit this as a crime; it is
not against their own consciences reproving, or their
Sght reproaching them; they ilo not know h to be an.
TOI» i. H 8
-offence, and then commit it in defiance of divine jiw-
<tice, as we iloin almost all the sins we commit. "Miry
think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war,
than we do to kill an iix; nor to eat huiuau flesh,
•than we•do•to oat mutton.
\Vhen 1 considered this a little, it followed -neces-
'sarily that il was certainly in, the wrong in it; that
these people were nftt mwderers in the sense that-I
-iiad before condemned-them in my thoughts, any
more than those Christians wemmurderers whooften
gmt to death the prisoners txfcen-in battle; or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troolis
of men to lhe sword, without giving tpmter, though
4hey threw down their arms, and submitted, in the
next place it occurred to me, that although tiie usa«e
'ttiey gave one another was tbus brutish and inl;LteieM,
yet it w«3 tvally nothing to me; these Iieople 4iaJ
-<kine me HO injury: that if they attempted me, or I
saw it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to
fall U)«;B them, somethi: night be said tor it; but
that I wire yet out of their power, and they really had
tioknowlsdgyof me, and consequently no design up-
on me; ami "therefore it could not he just for me to
ftdl niion them : that this would justify the conduct of
'the Spaniards in id! their barbarities practiced in A-
3nerien, where they destroyed millions of these peo-
ple: who, however they were idolaters am! b^rhari-
;ans, and had sevend bloody and barbarous rites in
:their customs, such as sacrificing buman bodies to their
idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, >ery innocent
people; and that the rooting them out of the country
is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detesta-
tion by even the Spaniards themselves st this time,
and by all other Christian nations in Kurope,ass
mere butchery, a bloudy and unnatural piece of cru-
elty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and for
which the very name of a Spaniard is tfckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity iw of
Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were
particularly eminent for the produce of a race of meuf
who were without principles of tenderness, or tiie
r
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reck-
oned to be A mark of generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of a full stop; and I began by little and lit-
tle to be offmy design, and to conclude I had taken
wrong measures in my resolution to attack the sava-
ges; and that it was not my business to meddle witlv
them, unless they first attacked me; and this it was
ray business, if possible, to prevent; but that'll I wrre
discovered and attached by them, 3U knew my duty.
On the other band, 1 argued with myself, that this re-
ally was thewuy nottodeliver myselt', bufentirely tii-
ruin and destroy myself y for unless 1 \vtts sure to kill
every one that not only should be on the shore at that
time, but that should ever come on shore afterward*,
if but one of them escaped to tell their country peo-
ple what had happened, they would come over again
by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows,
and I should on'.y bring upon imseli a certain dt o-
truetion, which, at present, I bad no mair.er o! occa-
sion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that ncithet'
in principle nor in polwy I-ought, one way or other
to concern myself in this- aili.iy: that my business waa
by all possible means, to conceul'myseif IVom them,
and not to leave the least signal to. them to gtu-ss l.-r
that there were any living creatures upon the island,
I mean of buman shape. Religion joined in with thir
prudential resolution; and I w.is convinced now, ma-
ny ways, tbut I was perfectly out of my duty when I
was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction.
of innocent creatures, 1 mean innocent as to me. As
to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another^
I bad-nothing to do with them; ther were national,
and I ought to leave them to the justice of (iod, who
is the governor of nations, and knows how, hy natiot:-
fil punishments, to make a just retribution tor nation-
al offences, and to bring public judgments upon thosu
who offend in a public manner, by such ways as bi-i.c
|ilease him. This appeared so clear to me now, tin v
nothing w.is a great"r satisfaction to me than that lv
btkl not been su&red to Uo a thing which I n!ra su i
si much reason to believe would have heen no lessa
sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it;
and I gave most bumble thanks on my knees to God,
that had tbus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; be-
seeching him to grant me the protection of his provi-
dence, that I might not fall into the hands of the bar-
barians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless 1. had a more clear call from Heaven to do it,
in defence of my own life.
In this disposition 1 continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in nil that time I
never once went np the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any
jofthem had been on shore there or not, that I might
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances a-
gainst lhem, or be provoked, by any ad vantage that
might present itself, to fall upon them: only this I
diii, I went and removed my boat, which -I had on the
other side of the island, and carried it down to the east
«nd of the whole island, where I ran it into a little
cove, which I found under some high rocks, and whore
I know, by reason of the-currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not come with their boats upon any
account whatever. With my boat I carried away ev-
ery thing that I had left there belonging to her,
though not necessary for the hare going thither, vix.
a mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing
'Hike an anchor, but which indeed could not be called
either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the best
1 could make of its kind: all these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery,
or any appearance of any boat, or of any human hab-
itation upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself.
- as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom went
from my cell, alher than upon my constant employ-
ment, viz. to milk my she goats, and manage my ltt-
tle flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was quite out of danger; for
certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes
his island, never came wjth any thoughts of.
ftnding any thinp here, and consequently never wan-
dered off from the coast; and'I doubt not but they
might have been several times on shore after my ap-
prehensions-of them had made me cautious, as well
as before. 'Indeed I looked back wilh some horror
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been if I had chopped upon them and been discovered
b'efore that, when, naked and unarmed, except with
one gun, and that loaded often with small shot, I
walked every where, peeping and peering about the
island to see what I could get; what a surprise shonhI
I have been in, if, when I discovered ihe print of a
man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or
twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and by
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my es-
caping them! The thoughts of this some'times sunk
my very soul within me, and distressed my mind so
much that 1 could not soon recover it, to think what
I should have done, and how I should not only have
been unable to resist them, but even should not have
had presence of mind enough to do what I might have
done; much less what now, after so much considera-
tion and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed,
after serious thinking of these things, I would be tery
melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great
while; but I resolved it all, at last, into thankfulness
to that Providence which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and bad kept from me those
mischiefs which I could have no way been the agent
in delivering myself from, because I had not the least
notion of any such thing depending, or the least sup-
position of its being possible. This renewed a con-
templation which had often come to my thoughts in
former time, when first I began to see the merciful
dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through
in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when
we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quan-
dary (as we call tt), a doubt or hesitation whether, to
go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us
this way, when we intended to go that way: nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps hu*i-
nesa. has called to go the other way, yet a strange iiH-
preesion upon the mind, from we know not whwt
springs, and by we know not what power, shall over-
pule us to go lhls way ; and it shall afterwards appear,
that had we hnve gone that way whieh we should hdve
gone, and even to our imagination ought tn buveguae,
we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these,
and many like reflections, I afterwards made it A cer-
tain rule with me, that whenever 1 ftmndthose secret
hints or pressings of mind, to doing or not doing any
thing that presented, or going this way or that way,
I never failed to obey the secret dictate; though I
knew no other reason for it than that such a pressure,
or such a hint, bung upon my mind. I could give
many examples of the success of this conduct in the
course of my life, but more especially In the latter
part of mv inhabiting this unhappy island; besides
many occasions which it is very likely I might have
taken notice of, if I had seen with the stunt: eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too Inte to be
wise; and I run not but advise all considering men,
whose lives a:e attended with such extraordinary in-
cidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary,
nut to slight such secret intimations of Providence,
let them come from what invisible intelligence they
will. That I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot
account for; but certainly they are a proof of the
converse of spirits, and a secret communication be-
tween IJIUHC embodied and tltose unembodied, and
such a proof as can never be withstood; of which I
shall have occasion to give some very remarkable in-
stances in the remainder of my solitary residence iu
this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess thatthese anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me,
put an end to all invention, and ta !dl the contrivan-
ces that 1 had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences I had the care of my safety more now
upon my hands than that of my food. "1 cared nit
to drive a ugil, or chop a stick of wood now, for fe»
tlie noise I might make should be heard: ranch less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason : and, above
»!l, I was intolerably uneasy at making any flre, lest
tfic smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the
<hiy., should betray me. For this reason I removed
s!mt jtwt of my business which required fire, such us
hmtting of pots and pipes, #e. into my new apartment
in the woods; where, after I had been some time, I
found to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural
cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and
where, I risre say, no savage, hiu) he Iwen at the
mouth of it, would he so hardy as to venture in ; nor,
indeed, would nm man else, but one who like me
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I would sav, If I
tlid not see abundant reason to ascribe all such tiiings
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
Ixiioehes o!' trcvs to make charcoal: and before I go
on 1 must observe the reason of my making this char-
coal, which was tbus: I was afraid of making a smoke
about my habitation, as I said before ; and yet I could
IK* live there without baking my bread, cooking my
meat, c^e.-, so I contrived to'burn some wood here, as
I had seen done in Kngiand, under turf, till it became
c'hiu'k, or dry coal : and then putting the fire out, I
ls-escrved the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services for which fire .was wanting, without
danger -of smoke. Out this is by Die by:—While I
was itutting down some wood here, I perceived that
behind H Tory thick branch of low brushwood or un-
derwood, there was a kind of hollow place : I was
curious to took in it, and getting with difficulty into
the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that is to
say, sufficient for me to stand upright in, and perhaps
another with me: but I must confess to you that I
made more haste out than I did in, when, looking
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark,
I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, wheth-
er devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two
stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. However, af-
ter some pause I recovered myself, and began to call
myself a thousand fools, and to think that he that was
afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years
in an island all alone; and that I might well think there
was notlting in this cave that was more frightful than
mvself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took
u;i a firebrand, and in 1 rushed again, with the stick
flaming in my band: Ihad not gone three steps in,
but 1 was almost as much frightened as I was before;
for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in
some pain, and it was followed by a broken noisr, as
of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again.
I stepped back; and was indeed struck with such sur-
prise that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had
had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it that
my hair might not have lifted it off. But still pluck-
ing up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging
myself a little with considering that the power and
presence of God was every where, and was able to
protect me, upon this ! stepped forward again, and
by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little o-
VIT my head, I saw lying on the ground a most mon-
strous, frightful, old he goat, just making his will, as
we say, and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could
get him put, and he essayed to get up, but was not a-
ble to raise himself; and I thought with myself he
might even lie there; for if he had frightened me, »
he would certainly fright any of the savages, if any
one of them should be so hardy as to- come in there
while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but very
(mall, that is to say, it might be about twelve feet fl-
yer, but in no manner of shape, neither round nor
square, no hands having ever been employed in mak»
ing it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that
there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in further, but 'was so slow that it required me to
ceeep upon my hands and knees to go into it. aid
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I
gave it over for that time ; but resolved to come again
the next thiy. provided with candles and & tinder-box,
which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wdd fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the nextd-iy I came provided with sir
large candles of my own making (for I made very
good candles now of goats' tallow, but was hard set for
candle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-) ::> n, and
sometimes the dried rind of a weed hke nettles); and
going into this low place, 1 was obliged to creep upon
tdl fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, con-
sidering that I knew not how far it might go, nor what
was beyond it. When I had got through the strait, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the
island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides
and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected an
hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles.
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any-
other precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppos-
ed it to be, I knew not. The place I was in was a
most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was
dry and level, and had a sort of a small loose gravel
upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous
creature to be seen, neither was there any damp or
wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it w:is
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
that was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to
bring some of these things which I was most an\ions
about to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring
hither m\ imagazine of powder. and all my spare arras,
viz. two Ibwling-pieces, for I had three in all, and
three muskets, for of them I had eight in nit: so
I kept in my castle only five, which stood ready
mounted,like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence;
and were ready also to take out upon any expediv
tion. Upon this occasion of removing my ammuni-
tion, I happened to open the barrel of powder, which
I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet;
and I found that the water had penetrated about three
or four inches into the powder on every side, which,
caking, and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like a kernel in the shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask: this was'a veiy agreeable discovery to me at
that time ; so I carried all away thither, never keep-
ing above two or three pounds of powder with me in
my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind: I also
carried thither all the lead 1 had left for bullets.
1 fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at theni; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, that if five hondred savages
were to bunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat," whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this disco-
very : and I found it much easier to dig a grent hole
tlwjre, and throw him in and cover him with earth,
than to drag him out: so linterred him there, to
prevent offence to my nose,
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence
in this island; and was so naturalized to the place,
and the manner of living, that could I have but en-
joyed the certainty that Mo savages would come to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to
have capitulated for spending the rest of my time
there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me
down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had
also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time p.iss a great deal more pleas-
antly with me than it did before: as, il.-st, I had
taught mv Pol, as I noted before, to speak; and he
dtd it so familiarly, and talked so articulately, and
plain, mat it was very pleasant to me; for 1 believe
J»i bird ever spoke plainer; and he lived with me no
'ess than six and twenty years: how lung he might
have lived afterwards I know not, though I knew they
have a notion in the Brazils that they live a bundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving com-
panion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that 1 was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devouring me and all I had: but, at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision
with me, they all run wild into the woods, except two
or three favourites, which I kept tame-, and whose
young, when they had any, I always drowned; and
these were part of my family. Hesides these, I al-
ways kept two or three household kids about me,
whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had
two more parrots which talked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like the first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them
that I had done with him. I had also several tame
seafowls, whose names 1 knew not, that I caught up-
on the shore, and cut their wings ; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall being now
grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived
among these low trees, and bred there, which was
very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I be-
gan to be very well contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be a-
miss for all people who shall meet with my story, to
make this observation from it, viz. How frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we
seek most to sbun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreaiHul to us, is oftentimes the very means
or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be
raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I
could give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable than in the circumstance* of my
last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I ssi.l
in my twenty-third year: and this, bung the southern
solstiee (for winter I cannot call it), was the particu-
lar time of mj harvest, and required my being pretty
much abroad in thc fields : when going out pretty ear-
ly in the morning, even before it was thorough day-
light, I was surprised with seeing the lipht of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about
two miles, towards the end of the island where I had
observed some savages hbd been, as before, nnd not
on the other side; but, to my great aiHittiou, it was
on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my ;^rove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised, and yet I bud no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if
these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works of im-
provements, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place,and would then never
give over till they had found me out. In this extrem-
ity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as
wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in I
posture of defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I call-
ed them, that is to say, my muskets, which were'
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pis-
tols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp:
not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the di-
vine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to de-
liver me out of the bauds of the barbarians. I con-
tinued in this posture about two hours; and began to
be mighty impatient for intetligence abroad. for 1 had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and
musing what I should do in this case, I was notable
to hear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting up
my Iiulder to the side of the hill, where there was a
flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the
ladder after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the lull; and pulling out my perspective-glass,
Tvhieh I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on
my belly on the ground, and began to look for the
place. I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had
made, nol to warm them, for they had no need of
I hat, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I sup-
posed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of buman
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether a-
live or dead, I could not tell
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me
too; but when I considered their coming must be al-
ways with the current of the ebb, 1 began, afterwards,
to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I
might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide
ef flood, if they were not on shore before : and having
made this observation, I went about my harvest work
witK the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it), away. I should have
observed, that for an hour or more before they went
off, they went a dancing; and 1 could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glass. I could not
perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering upon
them; but whether they were men or women, I
could iiiit distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my
girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a
scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make,
went away to the hill where I had discovered the
first appearance of all; and as soon as I got thither,
which was not in less than two hours (for 1 could not
go apace, being so loaded with arms *s I was), I per-
ceived there had been three canoes more of the sav-
ages at that place; and looking out further, I sar
they wen- all at sea together, making over for Uie
main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially
as, goii.gdown to the shore, I could see the marks of
hori-or which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, mid part
of the flesh, of buman bodies, eaten and devoured by
those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so
filled with indignation at the si;;ht, that I now began
to premeditate the destruction of the next that I sa\r
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It
seemed evident to me that the visits which they maiie
tbus to this island were not very frequent, for it wis
above fifteen months before any more of them cane
on shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw them,
nor any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time;
for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to
come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while I
lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant appre-
hensions of their coming upon me by surprise: from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
ring a
mour, and took op most of my hours, which should
have been better employed, in contriving how to cir-
cumvent and fall upon them, the very next time I
should see them ; especially if they should be divided,
as they were the last time, into two parties: uor did
I consider at all, that if I killed one party, suppuse
ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or
month, to kill another, and so another, even adatfin-
itum, till I should be at length no less a murderer
than they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps
raueh more so. I spent my days HOW in great per-
plexity andanxiety of mind, expecting that I should,one
day orother, fallinto the hands oflhese mercilesscrea-
tures; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking round me with the greatest care and
caution imaginable. And now I found, to my great com-
fort, how happy it was that I had provided. a time
flock or herd of gnats; for I durst not upon any ac-
count fire my gun, especially near that side of the
island where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I
v. as sure to have them come again, with perhaps two
or three bundred canoes with them, in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However, 1 wore
out a year and three months more before I ever saw
any more of I he: savages, and then I found them again,
as I shall soon observe. It is true, they might have
been there once or twice, but either they made no
stay, or at least I did not see them: but in tin- month
of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four
and twentieth yexr, 1 had a very strange encounter
with them; of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind,during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night:. in the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind: and in the night I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the rea-
sons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to wave
all this fora while.—It was the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden cal-
endar would reckon, for I marked all upon the post
still; I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew
a very great stnrm of wind all day, with a great deal
of lightning and tbunder, and a very foul night it was
after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion
of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up.
with very serious thoughts ahout my present condi-
tion, 1 wns surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a sur-
prise quite of a different nature from any I had met
with before; for the notions this. put into my thoughts
were quite of another kind. I started up in the great-
est haste imaginable, and, in a triiie, clapped my lad-
der to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it af-
ter me; and mounting it the second time, got to the
top of the hill the very moment Uiat a flash of fire
bid me listen for a second gun, which accordingly, in
about half a minute, 1 heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where 1
was driven down the current in my boat. I immedi-
ately considered that this must be some ship in dis-
tress, and that they had some comrade, or some oth-
er ship in company, and fired these for signals of dis-
tress, and to obtain help. 1 had the presence of
mind, at that minute, to think, that though 1 could
not help them, it might be they might help me: so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand,
and making a good handsome pile, 1 set it on fire up-
on the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely;
and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burned
f:iirly out, so that I was certain, if there was anv such
thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire b'azed up I
heard another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night Ion",
till daybreak; and when it was broad day, and the
air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at
sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a bull I
could not distinguish, no, not with my glass; the dis-
tance was so great, and the weather still something
hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
1 looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move : so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchdr; and beingeager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand,
and ran towards the south side of the island, to the
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with
the current: and getting up there, the weather by
this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to
roy great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which 1 found
whcn I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they
checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream,oreddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in, in all my life. Tbus, what
is one man's safety is another man's destruction: for
ft seems these men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being -wholly under
water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E. N. Ei Had they seen the
island, as 1 must necessarily suppose they did not,
Ihey must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have
saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
Iint their firingoff guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts: first, 1 imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and
endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea
gomg very high, they might have been cast away:
Dther times 1 imagined that they might have lost their
Itoat before, as might he the case many ways ; as, par-
ticularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their shiji,
which many times obliged men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it over-
board with their own hands: other times I imagined
they had some ether ship or ships in company, who,
upon the signals of distress they had made, had taken
them up and carried them off: other times I fancied
they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being
horried away by the current that I had been former-
ly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where
there was nothing but misery and perishing; and
that, perhaps, they might by this time think of starr-
ing, and of being in a condition to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God,
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me
in my desolate condition; and that ot'two ships' com-
panies, who were now cast away upon this part of the
world, not one life should lie spared but mine. I
learned here again to observe, that it is very rare that
the providence of God casts us into nny condition of
life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see
something or other to be thankful for, and may see
•others in worse circumstances than our own. Such
VOL. v J
certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of them were
saved; nothing could make it rational so much as to
wish or expect that they did not all perish there, ex-
cept the possibility only of their being taken up by
another ship in company : and this was but mere pos-
sibility indeed; for I saw not the least sign or appear-
anoe of any such thing. I cannot explain, by any pos-
sible energy of words, what a strange longing, or han-
kering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight,
breaking out sometimes thos: "O that there had
been but one or two, nay, or but one soul saved out
of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but
have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
i{K>ken to me, and to have conversed with !" In all
the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire after the society of my fellow-crea-
tures, or so deep a regret to the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the af-
fections, which, when they are set agoing by some
flbject in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination, that
motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, to
such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the
absence of it is insupportable. Such were these ear-
nest wishings that but one man had been saved. I
believe I repeated the words, " O that it had been but
one!" a thousand times j and my desires were so
moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands
would clinch together, and my fingers would press
the palms of my hands, so that if I had had any soft
dung in my hand, it would have crushed it involunta-
rily; and the teeth in my head would strike together,
and set against one another BO strong, that for some
time I could not part them again. Let the natural-
ists explain these things, and the reason and manner
of them: all I can say to them is, to describe the fact,
which was even surprising to me, when I found it,
though I knew not from whence it proceeded: it
was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
"fleas formedin my mind, realizing the comfort which
the conversation of one of my fellow-ehristinns would
have been to me.—But it was not to be; either their
fate or mine, or both, forbade it: for, till the last year
of my being on this island, I never knew >thethe»
any were saved out of the ship or no; and had only
the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes
on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to di*
rect me so much as to guess what nation he was of;
he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eigUl
and a tobacco-pipe;—the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
oat in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I
might find something on hoard that might be useful
to me: but that did not altogether press me so much
as the possibility that there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the
last degree; and this thought clung so to my heart
that I could not be quiet night or day, but I must ven-
ture out in my boat on board this wreck; and com-
mitting the rest to God's providence, I thought the
impression was ao strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted, that it must come from some invisi-
ble direction, and that I should be wanting to myself
it" I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened,
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my voy-
age, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh wa*
ter, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had
still a great deal of that left,) and a basket of raisins i
and thos, loading myself with every thing necessary,
I went down to my boat, got the water out of her,
put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then
went home again for more. My second cargo was
a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my
head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water,
aud about tiro dozen of small loaves, or barley eukus
more than before, with a bottle of goats milk and a
cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I
carried to my boat; and praying tn Cod to direct my
voyage, I put out; and rowing, or paddling, the ca-
noe along the shore, came at last to the utmost point
of the island on the north-east side. And now I was
to launch flut into the ocean, and either to venture or
not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which
ran constantly on bothsides of the island at adistance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard 1 had been in before, and
my heart began to fail me 5 for I foresaw that if I was
driven into either of those currents, I should be car-
ried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out of my
reach, or sight of the island again: and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should
rise, I should he inevitably lost
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I be-
gan to give over my enterprise; and having hauled
my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and set me down upon a rising bit of ground, ve-
ry pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, a-
bout my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could per-
ceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on; upon which my going was impracticable for so
many hours. Upon this, presently it occurred to me.
that 1 should go up to the highest piece of ground I
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that I
might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I
might not expect to be driven another way home,
with the same rapidness of the currents. This iho't
was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye ajton a
little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the cur-
rents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to
.guide myself in my return. Here 1 found, that w
the current of ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north side of the island in BIT
*eturn, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under
the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out.
1 first made a little out to sea, full north, till I began
to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward,
and which carried me at a great rate; and yet did
not so burry me us the current on the south side had
done before, so as to take from me all government
ofthebosit; but having a strong steerage with mv
paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a.
dismal sight to•took at: the ship which by the build-
ing, was Spanish, stuck fast, Jammed'in between two
rocks; all the stern and quarter of her were beaten
to pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle, which
struck in the rocks, had run on w'th great violence, her
mainmast and foremast were brought by the board,
that is to say, broken short off; but her bowsprit was
sound, and the head aml bow appeared firm. VVhetv
I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who>
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as
I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me; I
took him into the boat but found him almost dead
with bunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that
had been starving a fortnight in the snow: I then
gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which,
if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this, I went on board; but the first sight I met
with was tw-o men drowned in the cook-room or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast ahout one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
brqkc so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if
they had been under water. Besides the dog, there
was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I coidd see, but what were spoiled by the
water. There were some casks of liquor, whether
wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower ia Uw
hold, and which, the water being ebbed oaf, I conW
see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of
the seamen: and I got two of them mto the boat,
without examining what was in Ihum. Had the stern
of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off,
I am persuaded I might have made a good voyaget
for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room
to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board; and, if I may guess from the course she steered,
she mnst have been hound from Buenos Ayres, or
the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America,
beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt,
a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to
any body; and what became of her crew, I then
knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several mus-
kets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with a-
bout four ponnds of powder in it; as for the muskets,
I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took
the powder-horn. I took a fireshovel and tongs, which
I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron i and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again; and the same eve-
ning, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I re-
posed that night in the boat'! and in the morning I
resolved to harbour what 1 had got in my new cave,
and not carry it home to my castle. After refresh-
ing myself, 1 got all my cargo on shore, and began
to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor 1
found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had
at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good; but
when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me; for example, I found in one
a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the
salt water had not burt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. I found some
very good shirts, which were very welcome to me;
and about a dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths; the formerwere alsn
very welcome, heing exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to
the till in the chest, 1 found there three great bags of
pieces-of-eight, which held about eleven hondred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a
paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near
a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but
of little value; but, by the circumstances, it must
have belonged to the gunner's mate; though there
was no powder jn it; except two pounds of fine glaz-
ed powder in three small flasks, kept I suppose for
charging their fowling pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any
use to me: for, as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my
feet; and I would have given it all for three or four
pair of English shoes and stockings, which were tilings
I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many
rears. .1 had indeed got two pair of shoes now, which
1 took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I
saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but
they were not like our English shoes, either for ease
or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pie-
ces-of-eight in rials but no gold: I suppose this belong-
ed to a poorer man than the other, which seemed Io
belong to some officer. Well, however, I lugged this
money home to IDT cave, and laiditup, as I bud done
dint before which I brought from oar own ship; but
it was a great pity, as I said, that the other part of
this ship had not come to my share; for I am satisfi-
ed I might have loaded my canoe several times ons
with money; and thought f, if ever I escape to Eng-
land, it might lie here safe enough till I may come
again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way to
my old habitation, where I found every thing safe
and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after
my old fashion, and lake care of my family affairs;
and for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was
more vigilant than I used to be, looked o;itoftener,
and did not go abroad so much; and if at any lime 1
did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east
partof the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the
vitvages never came, and where I could go without
10 many precautions, and such a load of arms and
ammunition as I always carried with me if 1 went the
other way. I lived in this condition near two years
more; but my unlucky head, that was always to lit
me know it was born tn make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and de-
signs, how, if it were possible, I m-gluget away from
this island: for, sometimes I was fur making another
vo)age to the wreck, though my reason told me that
there was nothing left there worth the hazard of
my voyage; sometimes fur a ramble one way, some-
times another; and I helicve verily, if I had had thc
!io;tt that I went from Sallee in, I should have ven-
ture:! to sen, bound any where, I knew not whithee
1 have, been, in all my circumstances, a memento to
thos? who are touched with the general plaguea;'
mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half of their
miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied wilii
the station wherein God and nature hath placed them:
for, not to look buck upon my primitive condition,
ami the excellent advice of my father, the opposition
ti which was, as I may call it, my original SIM, mv
aidist-qiu-nt mistakes of the same kind had ht-t•n the
•"cans gf my coming into this miserable condition;
fbr had that-Providence, which so- happily seated me
at the Brazils as a-planter, blessed me with confined
desires, and I'couid have been contented to have got*
on gradually, I might have been by this time, I mean
in the time of my being in this island, one of tlw
most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, I'ara
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made hi
that httle lime I lived there, and the increase I should
probably have made if I'had remained, I might have
been worth a bundred thousand moidores? and what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well stock-
ed plantation, improving and increasing, to turn su-
per cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock-at hom*;,
that we could have bought them at our own door
from those whose business it was to fetch them ; and.
though-it had eost us something more,yetihe differ-
ence of that price was by no means worth saving at
so great a hazard. But as this-is usuallv the fate of
young heads, so 'reflection upon the folly of it is aa
commonly the exercise of more years, or of the dear
bought experience of time; so itwas with me now; and
yet so deep had the' mistake taken rout in my temper,
that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was
continually poring upon the means and possibility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with Ida
greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remain-
ing part of my story, it may not be improper to gi«e
some account of my first conceptions on the subject
of this foolish scheme for my escape, and how and upcn
what foundation I acted.
I am now to be 'supposed retired into my easrtfe,
after'my late voyage to the wreck; my frigate laidtrp
and secured under water, as usual, and my condition
restored to what it was before; 1 had more wealth,
indeed than I had before, but was not at all the ricji-
er ; for 1 had no more use for it than the Indians of
Fern-had before the Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in Maralt,
the fonr and twentieth year of my first setting footSn
this island of solitude, I waa lying in my bed or hau-.-
i a
mock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, ro
sdistemper, no uneasiness of body, nor sm-y uneasinca
in mind, more than ordinary, but could by no means
sclose my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink
all night long, otherwise than as follows:—It is im-
possible to-set down the innumerable crowd of tho'ts
s that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the
brain, the memory, in this night's time: I ran over the
v hole history of my life, in miniature, or by abridg-
ment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island,
and also of that part of my life since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case
since I came on short- on this island, I was comparing
the happy posture of my affairs hi the first years of
my habitation here, compared to the life of anxietj,
fear, and care, which 1 had lived in ever since I had
seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did not
believe the savages had frequented the island even all
the while, and might have been several hondreds of
them at times on shore there; but I had never known
it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it;
my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was
the same, and I was as happy in not knowing my
danger as if I had never really been exposed to it
This furnished my thoughts with many very profita-
ble reflections, and particularly this one: How infi-
nitely good that providence is, which has provided,
in its government of mankind, such narrow bounds
to his sight and knowledge of things; and though he
walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the
sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract
his mind and sink liis spirits, he is kept serene and
^calm, by having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
him.
After these thoughts had for sometime entertained
sme, 1 came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in for so many years in this very island, and
how I had walked about in the greatest security, and
yith al! possible tranquillity, even when perhaps noth-
ing but the brow of-a hill, a great tree, or the casual
approach of" night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the
hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seiz-
ed on me with the same view as 1 would on a goat or
a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime to ki!l
and devour me. than I did of a pigeon or a curlew.
I would unjustly slander myself, if I.should say I was-.
not sincerely thankful to my great preserver, to-
whose singular protection I acknowledged, with
great bumility, all these unknown deliverances were
due, and without which I must inevitably have fallen
into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts -were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of
these wretched creatures. I mean the savages, and
how it came" to pass in the world, that the wise Gov-
ernor of all tilings should give up any of his creatures
to such inbumanity, nay, to something so much he-
low even brutality itst-lf, as to devour its own kind:
but as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless spec-
ulations, il.occurred to me to inquire, what pnrt ot'
the world these wretches lived in? bow far oft' the
const was from whence they cnmc? what they ven-
tured over so far from home for? what kind of boats
they had ? and why 1 might not order myself nnd my
business so, that I might be as aMe to go over thither,
as they were to come to me?
I never so much as troubled myst-lf to consider
what 1 should do with myself when'I went thither;
what would become of me if 1 fell into the hnnda of
ibe sa vagus; or how I should cscnpu them if they at-
tacked me; no, nor so much HS how it was possible
for me to reach the coast, and not be r.Uncked by
some or other of them, without any possibility of i!t--
livur'mg imsetf; and if I should not fall into tlu-ir
hinul?, what I should do for provision, or whither I
should bend my course: none of liu-se thoughts, I
sav, so much as cume in my way; bat my mind \viis
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over iu
my boat to the main land.. I. Inokid upon my pres-
ent cuiJtiiuoiL HE Uie auwUBiacriUile UuUwould possibly
be; that I was not able to throw myself info mvr
thing but death, that could be culled worse; and if!
reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet
with relief, or,I might coast alone, as I did on the
African shore, till I came to some inhabited country,
sod where 1 might find some relief; and after all,
1icrhaps.I might•full in with some Christian ship that
nlight take me in; and if the worst came to the
worst, 1 could but die, Which would•put an end to all
these miseries st. once. I'ray note, all this was the
fruit of a disturbed mind,:an impatient temper, made
desperate as it were, by the•long continuance of mj
troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had been on board of, and where I had beea
so near obtaining what-I so earnestly longed for, viz.
somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
IVom them of the place where \vas, and of the proha.
hle means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my resig-
nation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dis-
positions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended ; and I
had, as it were, no liower to turn my thoughts to any
thing but to the project of a voyage to the main,which
eame upon me with such force, and such an impetu-
osity of desire, that it was not to be.resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my very blond
into a ferment, and my pnlse beat as high RS ifl hud
been in n fever, merely with the extraordinary fer-
vour of my mind about it; nature, as ifl had "been
fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it,
threw me into a sound sleep; one wou'd have thought
I should have dreamed of it; but 'I did not, nor of
any tiiing relating to it; but I dimmed, that as I was
going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages
coming to land, and that they brought with them an-
other savage, whom they were going to kill, in order
to eat him; when on a sudden, the suvage that they
were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life:
.Hien I thought ju.mje sleep,..that.Ueeamerunnuig into
nty little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself: and thailr seeing, htm alone, and not .perceiv-
ing: that tlte others sought him that way, shewed my-
self to him, and,.smilling upon him, encouraged him:
that he kneeled down to me, seeming to prav me to
assist him; upon which I shewed my ladder, made
him go up it, and carried him into my.cave, and he
became my servant; and that as soon as I had got
this man, I said to myself." Now I may certainly
venture to the. main land; for this fellow will serve me
as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither
to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
being devoured ; whflt places to venture into, and
what to escape. I waked with this thought, and was
under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disap-
pointments which I felt upon coming to myself, and
fmding it was no more than a dream, were equally
extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession;
and if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had comdemned to be ei'ten, and should
hung hither to kill: but these thoughts still were at-
tended with this difficulty, that it was impossible to
effect this, without attacking a wholecaravan of them,
and killing them all ; and this was not only a very des-
perate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on the
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of
it to myself and my heart trembled at the thoughts of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliv-
erance: I need not repeat the arguments which oc-
curred to me against this, they being the same men-
tioned before: but though I had other reasons to of-
fer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my life,
and would devour me, if they could; that it was self-
preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself
from this death of a life, and was acting in my own
jdcteoce, as much as if they were actually assaulting
me, and the like; I say, though these things argued
for it, yet the thoughts of shedding buman blood for
my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such
as i could by no means reconcile myself to for a great
while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it, (for all
these arguments, one way and another. struggled in
my head a long time,) the eager prevailing desire of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I re-
solved, if possible, to get one of those savages into my
hands, cost what it would: the next thing then was
to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to resolve on: but as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon
the watch to see them when they came on shore, and
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let it be what it would.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my-
self upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed"
so often, that I was heartily tired of it; for it was
above a year and a half that I waited; and for great
part of that time went out to the west end, and to the
south west corner of the island almost every day, to
look for canoes, but none appeared. This WHS verv
discouraging and began to trouble me much, though
I cannot say that it did in this case (as it had dona
some time before) wear off the edge of my desire to
the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed,
the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at
first so careful to sbun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be
upon them. Hesides, 1 fancied myself able toman-
age one, nay, two or three savages, if 1 had them, 90
as to make them entirely slaves to me,to do whater-'
er I should direct them, and to prevenx thoir being
able at any time to do me anv burt. It was u great
while that I pleased myselfwith this affair; but noth-
uig still presented; all my fancies and schemes came
to nothing, for no savages came near me foe a great
while.
About a year and a half after I entertained these
notions (and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them into execution), I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who
belonged to them all lauded, and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for
seeing so many, anil knowing that they always came
four or six, or sometimes more in a boat, I could not
tell whatto think of it, or how to take my measures,
to attack twenty or thirty men single handed; so lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted: How-
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an
attack that 1 had formerly provided, and was justrea-
dy for action, if any thing had presented. Having
waited a good while. listening to hear if they made
any noise, allength, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to
the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; stand-
ing. so, however,that myheaddidnotappearabovethe
hilli so thai they could not perceive me by any means.
Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass,
that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dress-
ed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it
was; but they were all dancing, in! know not how
many barbarous gestures apd figures, their own way,
round their fire.
While I was tbus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by,
and were now brought out for the slaughter. I per-
ceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down I suppose with a club or wooden sword, for that
was their way, and two or three others were at work
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery,
while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should he ready for him. In that very mo-
ment, this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liber-
ty, aud unbound, nature inspired him with hopes
of life, and he started away from-them, and'mrr with
incredible swiftness along the sands, directly toward*
me; I mean, towards- that part of the coast whert
my habitation was.. I was dreadfully frightened, I
must acknowledge, when I perceived him run my
way, and especially when, as-1 thought, I-saw him
pursued by the whole body: and now 1 expected that
part of my dream- was coming to pass,-and that he
would certainly take shelter in my grove: but I could
not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it; viz; that the other savages would not pursue
him thither, and find him there. However, 1 kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover when I
found that there was not above three men thatfollow-
ed him ; and stilt more was I encouraged wheu I
found that he outstripped them exceedingly in run-
ning, and gained ground of them; so that if he could
but hokl it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all.'
There was between them and my castle the creek,
whieh I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this
I (saw ptainly he must necessarily swim over, orthe~
poor wretch - would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it,
sthough the tide was-then up; but plunging in, swtitn,
through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, land-
ed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not,
and that standing on the other side he looked at the
-others, but went no farther, and- soon after went soft-
ly back again; which, as it happened, was very well
for him in the end. I' observed that the two who
swam were yet more than twice as long swimming
over the creek, as the fellow was-that fled from them,
It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and in»
deed irresistibly, that now wa»the time to get me m
servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, and
that I was plainlv called by Providence to save this
Poor creature's 'life. I immediately ran down tb*
htffdera with all possible expedition, fetched my two
guns, fur they were both at the foot of I he ladders, as
I observed before, and getting up again with the samu
haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea,
and having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pur-
cued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking
back, was at first perhaps as much frlghteRed at mis
as at them; but I beckoned with my baud to him to
eome back ; and in the mean time I slowly advanc-
ed towards the two that followed; then rushing at
once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece. I was loath to (ire, because I
would not have the rest hear; though, at that dis-
tance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
Wtt of sight of lhe smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make of it. Having knock-
od this fellow down, the other who pursued him stop-
ped, as if he had been frightened, and 1 advanced a
pace to wants him: but as I came nearer, 1 perceived
presently he had :t how and arrow, and wus fitting it
to shnot si me; so I was then necessitated Vo shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, thongb
he saw both his enemies fallen and killed, aa he
thought, yet was so frightened with the fire and noise
of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither
came forward nor went backward, though he seemed
ruthrr inclined still to fly than to come on. I hat-
is" •' '' 1 again to fiic•., and made signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way;
then ^topped ugaiu, and then a little farther, and stop-
ped again; and I co'dd then perceive that he stood
trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had
just Ixten to b<- killed, as his two enemies were. I
Reckoned to him ag;tm tocome to me, and gave him all
Ui« signs of encouragement that I could think of; and
htr came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment fin•
anving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasant-
ly, tmd beckoned to him to cuam still ucurcr: ac
length he came close to me; and then he kneeleJ
down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head upoa
tke ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot
upon hii head; this it seems was in token of swear-
ing to be ray slave forever. I took him up, and made
much ofhira, and encouraged him all I could. Bui
there was more work to do yet; for I perceived The
ravage whom I knocked down was not killed, btll
tttmued with the blow, and began to come to himselO
to I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, thai
he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to
tne, and though I could no understand them, yetl
thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, raf
OTO excepted, for above twenty-five years. But theie
was no time for such reflections now; the savage
»ho was knocked down recovered himself so far u
to ait up upon the ground, and I perceived that mr
navuge began to be afraid; but when I saw that, 1
presented my other piece at the man, as if I would
shout him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now,
made a motion to me to lend him my sword, which
tang naked in a belt by my side, which 1 did. He
Bo sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and, al
one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no Bxecutionct
in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very strange for one vAo, I had rea-
son to believe, never saw a sword in his life before,
except their own wooden swords: however, it seems,
at I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hanl,
that they will even cut off heads with them, nay, and
erms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph,
and brought me the sword again, and with abundance
of gestures which I did not understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, jus!
before me. But that which astonished him mcwt,
was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off:
ao pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him If
to him f so I bade him go, as well as I could. When
he cami' to him, he stood like one amazed, looking st
him, turning him first on one side, then on the other,
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which, it
seems was just in his breast, where it had made a
hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite deml.
He took up his bow and arrows, and came back | so
J turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me,
making signs to him that more might come after
them. Upon this, he made signs to me that he should
bury them with sand, that they might not be seen
by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs to
hiro again to do so. He fell to work; and in an ii:-
stunt he had scraped a holein thcsand with hishanda,
big enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him i and did so by the other also;
J believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an
hour. Then calling him away, I carried him, not to
my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther
part of the island: so I did not let my dream come
to pass in that part, viz. that he came into my grove
for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to
go and lie down to sleep, showing him a place where
I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which
I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor
creature lay down, and went to sltep.
He was a co-nely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, till
and well shaped; and, as [ reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he bud all the
sweetness and softness of an European in bis counte-
nance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was
long and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead
very high and large; and a great vivacity and spark-
ling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin
was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet nut nn
Ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians axf
Virginians, and other natives of America are, butol"
a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it some-
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to de-
scribe. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like.the Negroes; a very good mouth.
thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and us white ai
ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about
an hour, he awoke again, and came out of the caw
to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I hal
in the enclosure just by: when he espied me, he
came running to me, laying himself down again upon
the ground, with all the possible signs of an homble
thankful disposition, making a great many antic ges-
tures to show it. At last, he lays his head Sut upon
the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other fo«
upon his bead, as he had done before; aud after this.
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, am.
submission, imaginable, to let me know how he wouW
serve me so long as he lived. I understood him ia
many things, and let him know I w&s very well pie*-
1ss! with him. In a little time I began to speak s
him, and teach him to speak to me; and first I Id
him know his name should be KRID&Y, which aa
the day I saved his life: I called him so for the mem-
ory of the time. I likewise taught him to say Mas-
ter; and then let him know that was to be my namt:
I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and tn
know the meaning of them. I gave him some mi k
In an earthen pot, and let him sec me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and gave him a cak;
of bread to do the like, which he quickly eomplinl
with, and made signs that it was very good for hire.
I kept there with him nil that night; but as soon £
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, ami
let him know I would give him some clothes; >t
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark nakrf.
As we went by the place where he had buried the
two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and shot-
«1 mg the marks U.ut Uc hail made to tiud Uictu again,
making signs to me that we should dig them up again,
and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, es-
pressed my abhorrence of it, made asit'I would vomit
at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to
him to come away; which he did immediately, with
cjreat submission. I then led him up to the top of the
jiill, to see it'his enemies were gone; and pulling out
my glass, I looked and saw plainly the place where
they had been, but no appearance of them or their
canoes; so that it was plain they were gone, and had
left their two comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
But I was noicontentwith thisdiscovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curi-
osity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the now and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self; and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to
the place, m\ very hlood ran chill in my veins, and
my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spec-
tacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight. at least it was
so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The
place was covered with hntnan bones, the ground
<lyed with their blood, and grent pieces of flesh left
here and there, half eaten, mangled and scorched;
and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast
they had been making there, after a victory over their
enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and tlwe
bones of three or four-legs and feet, and abundancu
of oiher parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signa,
made me understand that they brought over four
prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were ea-
ten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great battle between
them and their next king,of whose snhjects,it seems,
Tie had been one, and that they h«l taken a great
Tiumber of prisoners ; and which were carried to sen-
seval places by those who had taken them in the figjis,
in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought thither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them together
m a heap, and make a great tire upon it, and burn
them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hanker-
ing stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much ab-
horrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it: for I
had, by some means, let him know that I would kill
him, if he offered it.
When he had done this, v.-c came back to our ca*
tie i and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned,
which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well; and then I nuide
him a jerkin of goat's skin, a* well as my skill would
allow (for I was now grown a tolerable good tailor);
and I gave him a cap which I made of hare's skin,
very convenient, and fashionable enough: and tbus
he was clothed for the present tolerably w ell, and waj
mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkward-
ly in these clothes at first; wearing the drawer* was
aery awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waist-
coat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms)
but a little easing them where he complained they
hurt him, and using himself to them, took to them
at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my but with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfect-
ly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in ths in-
side of the last, and in the outside of the first. As
there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I
made a formal framed door case, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within the
entrance: uul causing the door to open iu (he inside,
11 in nil it np in the night, taking in my Udders Wo;
BO that Friday could no way come at me in the insUie
of my innermost wall, without making so munh noise
lu getting over that it must needs waken me; for my
6rst wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to Ulo
side of the hill; which was again laid a crews with
smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thabihecl
over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was strong, like reede; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
but would have fallen down and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every
night. But I needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere ser-
vant than Friday was to me; without passions, sal-
Ienne», or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged;
bis very affections were tied to me, like those of s
child to a father; and I dare say he would have we'
rificed his life for the saving of mine, upon any occas-
ion whatsoever; the many tutimooies he gave me of
<hts put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me ftt.it
I needed to use no precautions, as to my ssfcty on hii
Account.
1'his frequently gave me occasion to observe, (frit
tluit with wonder, that however it had pleased God;
In his providence, and in the government of the work*
of hia hands, to Uike from so great a part of the world
of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties
rtiid the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that Its
Kivs bestowed upon them the same powers, the same
reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of
Jtintlness and obligation, the same passions and resent*
11ujiils of wrongs, the same seuse of gratitude, sincero
ity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, totl
receiving good, that he has given to us: and that whoa
lie pleases to offer them occasions of exeiting them.*,
they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them tp
t|ie right uses for which they were bestowed, than •s
are. This made me ver}T melancholy snmrtftncs hi
reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how
mean n ust- we make of all these, even though we
have these powers enlightened bv the great lamp of
of instruction, the spirit of God, and by the knowl-
edge of his word added to our understanding; ami
why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowl-
edge from so many millions of souls, who, it I might
judge by this poor savage, would make a much bel-
ter use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade
the sovereignty of Providence; and, us it were, ar»
raign the justice of so arbitrary adisposition of things
that should hide that light from some, and ri--veid it
to others, and yet expect a like duty from both: bull
(hnt it up, and chucked my thoughts with this conclu-
sion: first, that we do not know by what light and
law these should he condemned ; but that as God
WHS necessarilv, and by the nature of his heing infi-
nitely holy and pist, soil could not be, Iwt that if these
creatures were all sentenced to absence from himself,
k was on account of sinning against that light, which,
sis the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by
such rules as their consciences would acknowledge
to be just, though the foundation was not discovered to
us; and,secondly, that still, as we niv all clay in tlw
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him,"Why
hant thou formed me tbus r"
But to return to my new companion: I was greaV
ly delighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him every thing that was proper to make him
useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make
him speak and understand me when 1 spoke; and Its
was the aptest scholar that ever was: and particular*
ly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleas-
ed when he could but understand me, or make me
understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to
talk to him. Now my life began to be easy, that I
btgan to say to myself, that could I but have been
sate from more savages, I cared not if 1 was ueaer to
«enuwe from the place where I livetk
After I had been two or three ilays returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday otf
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the
woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flofk, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I strw n she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of
Friday;—Hold, said I, stand still; and made signs to
him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the saa-
age, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine
how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so amazed that ( thought he would
have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded ; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing ay
knees, said a great many things I did not understand;
but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me
not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up U the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which. I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did: and while he was wondering, and looking to sea
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again,
liy and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though
I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made
him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly, I fired and bade him look, and immedi-
ately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one fright-
ened again, notwithstanding all 1 bad said to hun ; uml
I found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put anything into the gun, but thought that
there must be some wonderful fund of death and de-
struction in that tiling, able to kill man, beast, bird,
or anything near or far off; and the astonishment this
created in him was such as could not wear off for a
long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for
several days, after; but he would speak to it, and
talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned othim, was
to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his astonish-
ment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run
and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but staid
somc time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered away a good distance from the place where
•he fell : however, he found her, took her up, and
brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno-
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do
H, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I
brought home the kid, and the same evening I took
die skin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and
baring a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of tie flesh, and made some very good broth.
After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
Bum, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it veiy
well; but that which was strangest to him was to
see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that
the salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into
his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
•pit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it: on the other hand I took some meat
into my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spis
and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at
the salt; but it would not do; he would never care
for salt with his meat or in his broth ; at least not for
• great while, and then but a very little.
Waving tbus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting
a piece, of 1 he kid: this I did by hanging it before the
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Kng.
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the
fire, and one across on the top, and tying the strmg
to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired very much; but when he came
to taste the flesh, he took su many ways to tell me
how well he liked it, that I could not but understand
him: and at |ast he told me, as well as he could, he
would never eat man's flesh any more, which I wae
very glad to hear.
The next day, I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, us
1 observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I, especially utter he had seen what
the meaning ofit was, and that it was to make bread
of; for after that 1 let him see me make my bread,
and bake it too; and in a little time Friday was ablo
to do all the work for me, as well as 1 could do it
myself.
"l began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity ofcorn
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as be-
fore, in which Friday worked not only very willingly
and very hard, but did it very cheerfully : and 1 told
him what it was for; that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too. He ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and let me know
that he thought I had much more labour upon me on
his account, than I had for myself; and that he would
work the harder forme, if I would tell himwhattodo.
This was the pleasantest year of all the lifel led in
this place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstand the names of almost every thing I had occa-
sion to call for, and of every place I had to send him
to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I
began now to have some use for my tongue again,
which, indeed, I hart very little occasion for before,
that is to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure oj
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fel-
low himself: his simple unfeigned honesty appeared
to me more and more every day, and I began really
to love the creature: and, on his side, I believe hi
loved me more than it was possible for him ever to
love any thing before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
taught him English so well that he could answer me
almost any question, I asked him whether the natioa
that he belonged to never conquered in battie? Al
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always fighl
the better:" that is, he meant, always get the better
in fight: and so we began the following discourse:
Master. You always fight the better; how came
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for all that
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them-,
how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation, in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was; there my nation fake one, two
great thousand.
Master. Hut why did not your side recover jon
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and,
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe thai
tune.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all o>
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come otttei
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them .'
Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to the N.
\V. side ot'the island, which,itseems,wastheirside).
By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on
shore on the farther part ot'the island, on the same
man-eating occasions he was now brought for; and,
some time after, when I took the courage to carrv
liim to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
lie presently knew the place, and told me he was
there once, when they eat up twenty men, two wo-
men, and one child: he could not tell twenty in Eng-
lish, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that after a little way out to sea. there was a current
und wind, always one way in the morning, the other
in the afternoon. This 1 understood to be no more
than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
Imt I afterwards understood it was occasioned bv the
p-eat draft and reflux of the mighty river Oioonoko,
in the mouth or gulf of which river, as 1 found after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which t per-
ceived to the \V. and N. W. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
J asked Friday a thousand questions about ihe coun-
try, the inhabitants. the sea, the coast, and what na-
tinns were near: he told me all he knew, with the
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the
names of the several nations of his sort cf people, but
•souhl get no other name than Caribs : from whence
I easily understood, that these were the Caribbees,
which our maps place on lhe part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to
Guiana, and onwards to St Martha. He told me
that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, be-
yond the setting of the moon, which must be west
i'rom their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which 1
mentioned before; and that they had killed much
mans, that was his word; by all which I understood
he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
had been spread over the whole country, and were
remembered by all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from
this island and get among those white men ? he tohl
me, Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe. I could not
understand what he meant, or make him describe to
me what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with
great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a
large boat, as big as two canoes. This part of Fri-
day's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this place, and that this poor savage
might be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked
him one time, Who made him? The poor creature
did not understand meat all, but thought I had asked
him who was bis father: but I took it up by another
handle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground
we walked on, and the hills and woods! He told me,
it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all;
he could describe nothing of this great person, but
that he was very old, much older, he said, than the
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked
him then, if this old person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, AH
things say O to him. I asked him if the people who
die in this country went away any where? He said,
Yes i they all went to Benamuckee : then tasked
him whether these they cat up went thither too?
lie said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up to-
wards heaven; that he governed the world by ths
same power and providence by which he made it;
that he was omnipotent, and could do every thing for
us, give every thing to us, take every thing from us;
and tbus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened
with great attention, and received with pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of
the manner of making our prayers to God, and his
being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told m«
one day, that if our God could hear us up beyond the
sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Be-
namuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet
could not hear till they went up to the great moun-
tains where he dwelt to speak to him. 1 asked him
if ever he went thither to speak to him? He said,
No; they never went that were young men; non«
went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee ; that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say
O (so he called saying prayers), and then came back,
and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I ob-
served, that there is priestcraft even among the most
blinded ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy
of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all re-
ligions in the world, even among the most brutish and
barbarous savages.
1 endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and tohl him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say O to their god
Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any oYM
there, it must be wilh an evil spirit: and then I en-
tered into a long discourse with him about the devil,
the original of him, his rebellion against God, his en-
mity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up
in the dark parts of the world to he worshiped instead
of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to their ruin ; how he had
a secret access to our passions and to our affections,
and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to
cause us even to be our own tempters, and run upon
our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil as it was about the being
of a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evi-
dence to him even the necessity of a great First
Cause, and overruling, governing Power, a secret
directing Providence, and of the equity and justice of
paying homage to him that made us, and the like;
out there appeared nothing of this Rind in the notion
of an evil spirit; of his original, his being, his nature,
and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to
draw us in to do so too: and the poor creature pnz-
eled me once in such a manner, by a question merely
natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say
to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of
the power of God, his omnipotence, his aversion to
rin, bis being a consuming fire to the workers of ini-
quity; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy
us and all the world in a moment; and he listened!
with great seriousness to me all the while. After
Ibis, I had been telling him how the devil was God's
enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence,
and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world. and
the like. "Well," says Friday, " but you say God
is so strong, so great; is he not much strong, much
might as the devil ?—" Yes, yes," says I, "Friday,
God is stronger than the devil : God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him
down under our feet, and enable us to resist hit temp-
tutions, and quench his fiery darts.''—"But," savs
he again, " if God much stronger, much might as the
devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no
more do wicked?" I was strangely surprised at this
question; and after all, though I was now an oid man,
yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a
casuist, «s a solver ol difficulties; and at filtt I could
not tell what to say; so I pretended not to hear him,
and asked him wht.t he said; but he was too earnest
for an answer, to forget his question, so that he re-
7'eated it in the very same broken words as above.
1lv this time I had recovered myself a little, and I
said, " God will at last punish him severely; he is re-
served for the judgment, and is to be cast into the
bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire.'' Tha
did not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me, re-
peating mv words, " Reserve at last / me no under-
stand: but why not kill the devil now; not kill great
ago.'"—"Yon may as well ask me," said I, " why
God does not kill you and mi', when we do wickeil
things here that offend him: we are preserved fti
repent and be pardoned." He mused some time on
this: "Well, well,"says he, mighty affectionatelj,
"that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all present,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run doTPn
again by him to the last degree; and it was a testi-
mony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though
thev will guide reasonable creatures to the know^
edge of a God, and of a worship or homage due flo
the supreme being of God, as the consequence of onr
nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can form
the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption
purchased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant,
and of an intercessor at the footstool of God's throne^
I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can form
these in the soul; and that therefore, the gospel of
GUI' Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the \Voiil
of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the guid*
and sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely neces-
sary instructors of the souls of men in the saving
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sud-
den occasion of going out: then sending him frir
something a good way off, I seriously prayed to God
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor
savage; assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor
ignorant creature to receive the light of the kuoal-
YOL.I. K2
edgeofGou in Christ, reconciling him to himself
•and would guide me to speak so to him from llm
Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
.Ilia eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came
again to me, I entered into a long discourse with him
upon the subject of the redemption of man by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the go*
pel preached from heavan, viz. of repentance towards
God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesns. I then ei-
plamedto him as well as I could, .why our blessed
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, bat
die seed of Abraham; and how, for that reason, the
fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that
he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and the like.
I had, God knows, more,sincerity than knowledge
In all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in
laying things open to him, I really informed and in-
structed myselt in many things that either I did not
know,,or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into
them, for the information of this poor savage; and I
had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, wheth-
er this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no,
1 had great reason to be thankful that ever he came
to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure : and when
I reflected that in this solitary life which I had beea
confined to, I had not only been moved to look up ID
heaven myself, and to seek to the hand that had
brought me here, but was now to be made an instru-
ment, under Providence, to save the life, and, for
aught I knew, the soul of a prior -savage, and bring
him to the true• knowledge of religion, and ofth*
Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesuit
in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran through every part
ot my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I wss
Ijronghtto this place, which I had so often thought the
most dreadful of all uftlictions that could possibly have
befallen me. -e
I continued in this thankful frame all the remain-
der of my time; and the conversation which employ-
ed the hours between Friday and me was such as
made the three years which we lived there together
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing aa
complete happiness can be formed in a subhL^ry
state. This savage was now a good Christian, a
much belter than I ; though I have reason to hope,
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted, restored penitents. We had here
the word of God to read,-and no farther off from his
Spirit to instruct, than if we had been ui England.
I always applied myself, in reading the Scriptures, to
let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what
1 read ; and he again, by his serious inquiries
und questionings, made me, as I said before, a much
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I
should ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I cannot refrain from observing
here also, from experience in this retired part of mv
life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is
that the knowledge of God,and of the doctrine of sal-
vation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that, as the bare reading the Scripture imide me ca-
pable of understanding enough of n.iy duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of sincere repen-
tance tor my sins, and hiving hold of a Saviour for lif*
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and
obedience to nil God's commymls, and this without
any teacher or instructor, I mean buman; so tha
same plain instruction sufficientlv served to -the en-
lightening this stt\age creature, and bringing him to
be Midi a Chrisimn as i have known few equal to
him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrnngling, strife, and con-
tention which hnve happened in the world about re-
Kgkm whether uiteiins in doetvmci, or schemes ef
cburch government, they were all perfectly useless
to us, and, for aught I can yet see, they have been
•o to the rest of the world. We had the sure guide
to heaven, viz. the word of God; and we had, blessed
he Cod, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teach-
ing and instructing us by his word, leading us into all
truth, and making us both willing and obei" inttothe
instruction of his wonl. And I cannot see the least
useC.'that the greatest knowledge of the disputed
points of religion, which have made such confusions
in the world, would have been to us, if we could have
obtained it.—But I must^o on with the historical part
of things, aud take every5iart in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said. to him, and speak pretty f.uently,though in bro-
ken English to me, I acquainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming; to this place; how I had lived here and how
long: I Jet him info the mystery, for such it was to
him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how
to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with; and I made him a belt with a
frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear han-
gers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave
him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon
in some cases, but much more useful upon other oc-
casions.
I described to him the country of Europe, particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshiped God, how we behaved to one a-
nother, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
bad been on board of, and showed him, as near us I
oould, the place where she lay; but she was all bea-
ten in pieces before and gone. I showed him the ru-
ins of oui' boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then:
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing
this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon?
At last, says he, " Me sec such boat like come to place
at .ny natian." I did not understand him a good
while; but, at last, when I had examined farther in-
to it, 1 understood by him, that a boat, such as that
had been, came on shore upon the country where he
lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven thither
by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast t.-'. ay upon their
coast, and the boat might get loose and drivexshore;
but was so dull that I never once thought of men ma-
king their escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come: so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to undet stand him when he added
with some warmth," We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him, if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat?
"Yes" he said; "the boat full of white mans." I
asked him how many? He told upon his fingers sev-
enteen. I asked him then what became of them f
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I pres-
ently imagined that these might be the men belong-
ing to the ship that was cast away in the sight of my
island, as I now called it; and, who, after the ship
was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably
lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and were
Inmied upon that wild shore among the savages. Up-
on this I inquired of him more critically what was be-
come of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live
on. I asked him how it came to pass l.hcy did not
kill them and eat them? He said, "No, they make
brother with them;" that is, as I understood him, a
truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but
when make the war fight;" that is to sny, they nev-
er eat any men but such as come to fight with them,
and nre taken in battle.
It was after this same considerable time, that being
upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America, Friday,
the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly
towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise,falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was
atsomedistati£w from him. I asked him what was the
matter ?" O joy !'' says he; "O glad! there see my
country, there my nation!" I observed an extraordi-
nary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his
own country again. This observation of mine put a
great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was
before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could
get back to his own nation again, he would not only
forget all his religion, but all his Obligation to me, and
would be forward enough to give his countrymen an.
account of me, and come back perhaps with a hon-
dred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at
which he might be as merry as he used to be with
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However,as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I
was a little more circumspect, and notsofamiliar and
kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in
the wrong too; the honest, grateful creature having
no thought about it, but what consisted with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian, ami as a
grateful friend; as appeared aftemvards to my full
satisfaction.
While my jealousy ofhim lasted, you may be sore
I was eveiy day pumping him, to see if he would dis-
cover any of the new thoughts which I susp^cu-d
were in him : but I found every thing he said was BO
honest and so innocent that I could find nothing to
nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasi-
ness, he made me at last entirely his own again i iwir
did he in the least perceive thai 1 was uneasy, and
therefore 1 could not suspect him ul'iIt-ceil.
; One day, walking up the same hill, but the weath-
er being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not
you wish yourself in yourown country, your own na-
tion ?"—" Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to ba
at my own nation." "What would you do there?
said I: "would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh
again, and be a savage, as you were before?' He
looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said,
"No, no, Friday tell them to live good ; tell them to
pray God; tell them to eat corn bread, cattle flesh,
milk; no eat man again."—" Why then," said I to
him, " they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, " No, no; they no kill me, they wil-
ling love learn." He meant by this, they would be
willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked
him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me that he could not swim so far. I told
him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he
would go, if I would go with him. "I go!" says I,
'' why, they will eat me if I come there."—" No,
no," nays he, " me make they no eat you; me make
they i.mrh love you." He meant, he would tell
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me. Then he told
me, as well as he could, how kind they were to sev-
enteen white men, or bearded men, as he called them,
who came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with those bearda
ed men, who I made no doubt were Spaniards and
Portuguese: not doubting but if I could, we might
find some method to escape from thence, being upon
the continent, and a good company together, better
than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
and alone, without help. So, after some days, I took
.Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to go back to his own
nation; and accordingly, I carried him to my frigate,
.which lay on the other side of the island, and having
cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk ht wa-
ter,) I brought it out, showed it him, and we both
went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow
at managing it, and would make it go almost as swift
again as I could. So when he was in I said to him,
"Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation f
lie looked very dull at my saying so; which it seenw
was, because he thought the boat too small to goso
far: I then told hira I had a bigger; so the next dsv
I went to the place where the first boat lay which 1
had made, but which I could not get into the water,
tie said that was big enough: but then, as I had to-
ken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, thai
it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such •
boat would do very well, and would carry "much
enough vittlc, drink, bread;" that was his way of
talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent
that I told him we would go and make one as big a•
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him P He asked ma
again, " Why you angry mad with Friday? what me
done: I asked him what he meant: 1 told him 1 was
not angry with him at all. "No angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times, "why send Fri-
day home away to my nation ?—" Why, says I, "Fri-
day did not you say you wished you were there."
—" Yes, yes," says he, " wish be both there; no wish
Friday there, no master there." In a word he would
not think of going there without me. "I go there,
Friday !" says I, "what shall I do there >" He re-
turned very quicfc upon me at this; "You do great
deal much good,'' says he; "you teach wild mansba
good sober, tame mans; you tell them know Gal,
pray God, and live new life."—'' Alas, Friday ^ssjs
I, thon knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."—"Yes, yes,"says he, wyoa
teachee me good, you teachee them good."—"'No
no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without me; leaw
me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word; and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes
IT up hastily, and gives it to me. a What must I do
with this?" says I to him. "Yon take kill Friday,
says he. ii What must I kill you for?" said I again:
He returns very quick, "What you send Friday a-
w*y for?" Take kill Friday, no send Friday awav."
This he spoke so earnestly that 1 saw tears stand in
his eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the ut-
most affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
liun,that I told him then, and often after, that I would
never send him away from me, if he was willing to
stay v/ith me. Upon the whole, as I found hy all his
discourse H settled affection to me, and that noth-
ing should part him from me, so I found all the
foundation of his desire to go to his own country was
laid in his ardent a flection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as [
had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought
or intention or desire of undertakuig it. Hut still I
found a strong inclination to my attempting an esciipe,
as above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen beard-
ed men there: and therefore, without any more de-
lay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
cttnoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of
periaguas or canoes. but even of good large vessels:
but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near
the water that we miffht launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake 1 committed at first At bist
Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much helter than I what kind of wood was fittest for
it: nor can I tell, to this<Iay, what wood to call the
'ree we cut down, except! that it was very like the
ree we cull fustic, or between that and the Nioara-
nta wood, for it was much thesamecolourand smell.
rYirlHV WHS for burning the hollow or cavity of this
rec out, to make it fora boat, but I showed him how
;o cut it with tools l tthicb, after I had showed him
how to ase, he did very handily: and jin about >
month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I
diowed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were, inch by inch upon great rollers into
the water; but when she was in, she would have car-
ried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and
how swift my man Friday would manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her. "Yes,"
he said, " we venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind." However, I had a farther design
that he knew nothing of, and that was, to make a
mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and ca-
ble. As to a mast, that was easy snough to get; so
I pitched upon a straight young ceder tree, which I
found near the place, and which there were great
plenty of in the island: and I set Friday to work to
out it down, and gave him directions how to shape
and order it. But as to the sail, that was my partic-
ular care. 1 knew I had old sails, or rather pieces
of old sails enough; but as I had tiad them now six
and twenty years by me, and had not been very care-
ful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ev-
er have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were
so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work; and
with a great deal of pains, and awkward stitching you
may he sure, for want of needles, I at length made a
three cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Kng-
htnd. a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as us-
ually our ship's long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage, as it was such a one as I had
to the boat in which I made my escape from fiarbu-
iy, as ralated in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for Ifin-
ished them very complete, makings small stay, and
a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I was but
a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness,
and even, necessity of such a thing, I applied mvself
with so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it
to pass; though, considering the many dull contri-
vances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me al-
most as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and
a rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw
me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rud-
der, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or
that way, as the course we sailed changed: I say,
when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed. However, with a little use, I made all these
tiiings familiar to him, and he became an expert sai-
lor, except that as to the compass: I could make
him understand very little of that. On the other
hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were
always to be seen by night, and the shore by day,ex-
cept in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to
stir abroad either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that 1 had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left nut of the account, my habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the rest of the time.
I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first,
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first,
I htul much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for 1 had an invincible impression upon
my thoughts that my deliverenee was at hand, and
that 1 should not be another year in this place. 1
Tent on, however, with my husbandry: digging,
planting, and fencing, ns usual. I gathered and cured
my grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times.
We had stowed onr new vessel as secure as we could,
brinpng her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and
hauling her up to the shore nt high water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in; and then, when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep
the water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from
the sea: and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees, so thick that she •was as well
thatched as a house; and thos we wailed for the
months of November and December, in which I de-
signed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to contc in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather.
I was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provis-
ions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, sed
b'ul him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could finrii
turtle, or tortoise, a tiiing which we generally pot
once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
f;esh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
bis feet on; and before I had time to speak to Mm,
he cries out to me, "O master I O master! 0 sor-
row! O had !"—" What's the matter, Friday
says I. "O yonder, there," says he, "one, te
three, canoe; one, two, three!'' By this way u'
speaking, 1 concluded there were six; but ou inquiiy
I found there were but three. " Well, Friday," says
I, " do not be frightened." So I heartened him up
as well as I could: however, I saw the poor fellow
was most terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head
but that they were come to look for him, and
would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to
do with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he, and tha»
they would eat me as well as him. "Hut," says 1,
"Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can yoa
fight, Friday ?"—"Me shoot," says he, "but there
come many great number."—" No matter for that,"
said I, a^ain; "our guns will fright them that we do
not kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me,
and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die when
you hid die, master." .So I went and fetched a good
dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good
a hosband of my rum, that I had a great deal left.
When he drank it, I made him take the two fowling
pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them
with large swanshot, as big as small pistol bulletsi
then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two
slugs, and five small bullets each; and my two pis-
tols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I bung my
great sword as usual, naked by my side, and gave
-Friday his hatchet. When I had tbus prepared my-
self, I took my perspective glass, and went up to the
sidcofthe hill, to see what I could discover; and ifouiut
quickly by my glass, that there were one and twen*
ty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the u'inmph'.
ant banquet upon" these three buman bodies; a bar-
barous feast indeed! but nothing more than, as I had
observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that
they were landed, not where they had done when
Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek,
where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came almost close down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inbumanerrand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came
down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to
go down to them, and kill them all; and asked him if
he would stand by me. He had now got over hn
fright, and his spirits heing a little raised with the
dram had given him, he was very cheerful, and toM
me, as before, he would die when I hid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which
I had charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, aud three guns upon
his shoulder; and 1 took one pistol, and the other
three guns myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bul-
lets; and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close
behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any thing,
till I bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak A
word. In this posture 1 fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the
creek as to get into the wood, so that I could come
within shot of them before I should be diuovered,
which I bad seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, ray former thot"S
returning, I began to abate my resolution: I do not
mean that I entertained any fear of their number;
for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is cer-
tain I was superior to them, nay, though I had. been
alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call,
what occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to
go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who
had neither done or intended me any wrong? Who,
us to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous cus-
toms were their own disaster; being, in them,a to-
ken indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity,
and to such inbuman courses; but did not call me to
take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much
lees an executioner of hia justice; that, whenever he
thought fit, he wonld take the cause into his own
hands, and, by national vengeance, punish them, as a
people, for national crimes; but that in the mean
time, it was none of my business; that it was true,
Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very parttc-
ular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them:
but I could not say the same with respect to myself.
These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I
would only go and place myself near them, that I
mtght observe their barbnrous feast, and that I would
act then as God should direct; but that, unless some-
thing offered that was more a call to me than yet I
knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood : and, with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following
close at my heals, I marched till I came to the skirt oY
the wood, on the side which was next to them, only
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a
great tree which was just at the corner of the wood,
1 bade him go to the tree, and bring rae word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing, hie
did so, and came immediately back to me, and told
me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, whom he said they would
lull next, and whieh fired the very soul within me.
He told me, it was not one of their nation, but one ot'
the bearded men whom he had told me of, who came
to their country in a boat. I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white bearded man; and, go-
Ing to the tree, 1 saw plainly by my glass a white man,
who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
his feet tied with flags, or things tike rushes, and that
he was an Kuropean, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
wherc I was, which, by going a little way about, I sa*
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should
be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my pas-
.;,,.,, though I was indeed enraged to the highest de-
gree; and gomg back about twenty paces, I got be-
hind some bushes, which held all the way till I cami
to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at th<
distance of about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of ths
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close burl-
died together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhapi
Jimb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooping
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday
.—" Now, Friday," said I, " dons I bid thee." Friday
s:iid he would. "Then, Friday," says I," do exactly
:u you see me do; fail in nothing." So I sat down ou
o/the muskets and the fowling piece upon the groune,
and Friday did the like by his: and with the otha
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him tu
do the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said.
"Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, ami
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, it
a dreadful consternation; and all of them who wen
not burt, jumped upon their feet, but did not imme-
diately know which way to run, or which way to loot.
"for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that,
1 had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, *
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down thi
piece, and took up the fowling piece, and Friday utl
the like: he saw me cock and present; he did tin
same again. "Are you ready, Friday >" said I.—
"Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in tha
name of God !'' and with that I fired again among tlw
amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pie-
ces were now loaden with what I called swanshot, or
small pistol bullets, we found only two drop, but si
many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most«
them miserably wounded, whereof three more EeJ
quickly after, though not quite dead.
« Now, Friday," saysl,layingdown the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet load-
en, "follow me;" which he did with a great deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, aud Friday close at my foot . As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so too; and running as
fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast,
being loaded with arms as 1 was, I made directly to-
wards the poor victim, who was, as I satd, lying upo'i
the beuch, or shore, between the place where they
sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just
going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the
seaside, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more
of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he un-
derstood me immediately, and running about forty
yards, to be nearer them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all fall
of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of them up
ugain quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third so that he lay down in the bottom
of the boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim;
and loosing his hands and feet, 1 lifted him up, and
asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was,
He answered in Latin, Christianus: but was so weak
and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took
my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making
signs that he should drink, which be did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he eat . Then 1 asked
him what countryman he was: and he said Espagni-
ole; and being a little recovered, let me know, by
all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior," said
I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, " we
will talk afterwards, but we must fight now: if you
have any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and
lay about you." He took them very thankfully; and
no sooner had he the arms in his hand, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon big mur-
derers like a fnry, and had cut two of them in pieces
in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a
surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much
irightened with the noise of our pieces that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more
power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh
had to resit our shot : and that was the case of those
live that Friday shot at ;n the boat; for as three of
them fell with the burt they received, so the other
two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword: so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he did with
great swiftness; and then Riving him my musket, I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was
loading these pieces, there happened s fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard, and one of the savages,
who made at him with one nf their great wooden
swords, the samelike weapon that was to have killed
him before, it'I had not prevented it. The Spaniard.
who was as bold and brave as could be imagined,
though weak, haJ fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two great wounds on his head; bat
the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with
him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was
wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Span-
iard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword,
drew the pistol from his g'n-dle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, be-
fore 1, who was running to help him, could come
near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but h»
hatchet; and with that he despatched those three,
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, aad fall-
en, and alt tin; rest he could come up with : and the
Spaniard couiing to me for :t gun, I gave him one of
itte fouling pieces, with which he pursued two ot'
the savages, and wounded them Imth ; but, as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the
wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one
ot them. but the other was too nimble tor him: and
thongh he was wounded, yet had plunged himself
into the sea, and swam with all his mi^ht off to thnve
two who were left in the canoe, which three in the
conoe, with one wounded, that we knew not whether
he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one
and twenty ; the account of the whole is as follows:
three killed at our first shot from the tree; two kill-
ed by Friday in the boat ; two killed by Friday, of
those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed,
being found dropped here and there, of their wounds,
or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four esca-
ped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.-—
Twenty-one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gunshot, and though Friday made two or three
iihots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of theirea-
noes, and pursue them; and indeed, 1 was very
anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news
home to their people, they should come back perhaps
with two or three bundred of the canoes, and devour
us by mere multitude ; sol consented to pursue them
by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped
in, and hade Friday follow me; but when I was in
the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor crea-
ture lie there, bound hand and foot, ns the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter s for he had not been
able lo look up over the side of the boat, he was tied
so hard neck and heels , and had been tied so long,
thai he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
tfiey had bound him wlth; ami M-ouM have helped him
up ; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned
most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was
only unbound in order to be killed. When Fridav
came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him
of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made
him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any
one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, em-
braced him, bugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, dancad, sung; then cried again, wrung
his hands, beat his own face and head; and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature.
It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a tittle to himself, he told me that it was his
father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what eestasy and filial affection had worked in thia
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe
half the extravagances of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of Ihe boat, a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would sit
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving
what the case was, gave him some rum out of ray bot-
tle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost out
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
it blew sohard within two hoursafter, and before they
could be got a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not sup-
pose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
Weir own coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that 1 enuld not find in my heart to take him
off for some time; but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme;
then I asked him if he had given his father any bread.
Me shook his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat
all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave
him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or
three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful of
them for his father. He had no sooner given his
father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he
ran at such a rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on
his feet that ever I saw : I say, he ran at such a rate
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and
though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an
hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as
he went; and as he came nearer, I found his pace
slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had gottwomore cakes
or loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father; however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits 1
had given him, for he waajust fainting with thirst.
When h!s father had drank, I called to him to
know if there was any water left: he said, "Yes.;"
and I bade him gne it to the poof Spaniard, who was
in as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of
the cakes, that Friday brought, to lhe Spaniard too,
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself
upon a preen place under the shade of a tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When 1 aaw that, open Friday's doming to him with
the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread,
and began to eat, I went to him and gave him a hand-
ful of raisins: he looked up in my face with all the
tokens of gratitude and thankfuhiess that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstand-
ing he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he
could not stand up upon his feet ; he tried to do it
two or three times, but was really notable, his ankles
were so-swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him
ait still,and caused Friday to rubhisHnkles,and bathe
them with rum, as he had done his father's.
- I observed the poor affectionate crcntnre, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turn his head about, to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to he seen; at which he
started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when
he came he only found he bud laid himself down to
ease his limbs, so Friday came hack to me presently;
and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him up, if he could, And lead him to the boat, and
then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I
would take care of him: but Friday, a lusty strong
fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him-away to the boat, and set him down soft-
ly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet
in the inside of it: and then lifiing-him quite in, he
set him close to his father ; and presently stepping
out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along
the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the-boat, ran away
to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke
to him, and asked.him whither he went tletold me,
* Go fetch more boat:" so away be went like the
wind, for sure never man.or horse ran like him ;aml
he had the other canoe in the creek almost .is soon as
I Rot to it by land; so he wafted me over, and then
went to.help our new gue«s out of the boat, which
he did ; bnt they were neither of them able to walk,
SKI that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them both up together upon it, between us.
Rut when we got them to the outside of our wall,
or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before,
for it was impossible to get them over, and I was re-
solved not to break it down; so I set to work again;
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a
very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above
that with boughs of trees, being in the space without
our outward fence, and between that and the grovi:
of young wood which I had planted: and here un-
made them two beds of slieh things as I had, viz. of
good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it, to li« on,
and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, iiow like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of domin-
ion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected;
I was absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed
their lives tome, and were ready to lay down their
lives, if there had been occasion for it, forme. Itwas
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they
were, of three different religions: my man Friday
was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a canni-
bal, and the Spaniard was a Papist; however, I al-
lowed liberty of conscience throughout my domin-
ions :—Hut this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provis-
ion for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered
Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and .1
gout, nut of my particular flock, to be killed; when I
tut olTthe hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing,
and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh
and broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I
made no tire within my inner wall, so I carried it all
into the new tent, and having set a table there for
them, I sat down, and eat my own dinner also with
them, and, as well as 1 could, cheered them and en-
couraged them. Friday was my interpreter, espe-
cially to his lather, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too;
for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages
pretty well.
At'ter we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch onr
muskets and our fire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next
day, 1 ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would
presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I
knew were pretty much, and which I could not think
of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them,
if I went thnt way; all which he punctually perform-
ed, and effaced the very appearance of the savagps
being there; so that wlu-n I went again, I could
scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the cor-
ner of the wood pointing lo the place.
I then begun to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday toin-
quire of his father what he thought of the escape of
the savages in that canoe. and whether we might ex-
pect a return of them. with a power too great for us
to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in
the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went off, but must, of necessity. he
drowned, or driven south to those other shores, where
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to he
drowned, if they were cast away: but, ss to what
they would, if they came safe onshore, he said he
knew not; but it was his opinion, that they were so
dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked,"the noise, and the fire, that he believed Uie;r
were all killed by tbunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man ; and thai the two which appeared, viz.
Friday and I, were two heavenly spiriis, or furies,
come down to destroy them, and not men with wea-
pons. This, he said, he knew ; because he heard
them all cry out so, in their language, one to another;
for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man
could dart fire, and speak tbunder, and kill at a dis-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now:
and this old savage was in the right; for, as I under-
stood since, by other hands, the savages never at-
tempted to go over to the island afterwards, they were
so terrified with the accounts given by those tour men,
(for, it seems, they did escape the sea) that they be-
lieved whoever went to that enchanted island would
be destroyed with fire from the gods. This, howev-
er, I knew not; and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon
rny guard, with all my army: for,as there were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hondred of
them, fairly in the open field, at any lime.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the tear of their eoming wore off; and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main
into consideration; being likewise assured, by Fri-
day's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation, on his account, if 1 \vould go. But
my thoughts were a litlle suspended when I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when 1 un-
derstood that there were sixteen more of his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who, having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage, and found
they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la
Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and
to bring back what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they took out of another vreck;
YoL. I. L 2
thatfive of their own men were drowned, when first
the ship wns lost, ami that these escaped through in.
iinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starv-
ed, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to
have heen devoured every moment. He told me
they had some arms with them, but they were per-
fectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor
ball, the washing of the sea having spoited all their
powder, but a little, which they used, at their first
landing, to provide themselves some fttod.
1 asked him what he thought would become of
them there, and if they had I'ormed any design of
making their escape. He said they had manv consul.
tations about it; but that having neiiher vessel, nor
tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
councils always ended in tears and despair. tasked
him how he .thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend towards an escape; and
whether, if they were all here, it might not be done
s1 told him with freedom, I feared mostly their treach-
ery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands;
for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature
of man, nor did men always square their dealings by
the obligations they had received. so much as they
did by the advantages they expected. I told him
it would be very hard that I should be the instrument
of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards
make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an
Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice, what
necessity or what accident soever brought him thith-
er; and that I had rather be delivered up to the sav-
ages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merci-
less claws of the priests, and be carried into the In-
quisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded,
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils, southward, or to the Islands, or Span-
ish coast northward; but that if, in requital, they
should, when I had put weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might
be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my
vsse worse than it was before.
He answered, with a^great deal of candour and in-
genuousness, that their condition WHS so miserable,
and that the; were so sensible of it, that, he helived,
they would abHorthe thought of using any man un-
kindly thai should contribute to iheir deliverance;
and that if I pleased, he would go to them with the
old man, and discourse with them about it and retufn
ii.^iin. and bring me their answer; that he would
make conditions with them upon their solemn oath,
that they should be absolutely under my leading, as
their commander and captain; and they should swear
tipun the holy sacraments and gospel, "to be true to
me, and go to such Christian country us that I'should
afiree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and
absolutely by my outers, till they were landed safely
In such country as I intended; and that he would
bring a contract from them, under their hands, for
that purpose. Then he told me he would firstswear
to me himself, that he would ne\er stir from me as
long as tie lived, till I gave him orders; mid that ho
would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if
there should happen the least breach of faith among
his countrymen. He told me they Mere all of them
vory civil, honest men, and they were under tin;
greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discre-
tion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever retwnins
to their own country ; and that he wassnre.ifl would
undertake Iheir relief, they uould lite and ilieby mo.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, If possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when ar
had got nil things in ivadinLss to go, the Spaninit!
himself started an objection, uhich had so tntieh pru.
denrc in it on o;ie hand, and so much sincerity on th.-
other hand, that I couhl not but be very well satisFn''!
in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance oflrs
eomrades lol'iit least hall'n yeur. The cane was I|HIK:
lie had been with us nuw about a month, dio'lr^
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had laid up; which, though it was more than
sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without
good busbandry, for my family, now it was increased
to four; but much less would it be sufficient if his
countrymen, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive,
should come over; and, least of all, would it be suffi-
cient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for
a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America;
so he told me he thought it would be more advisable
to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some
more land, as much as I could spare seei! to sow, and
that we should wait another harvest, that we might
have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they
should come ; for want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, oth-
wise than out of one difficulty into another. "You
know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for their beingdelivered out ofEgypt,
yet rebelled even against God himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wilder-
ness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity:
so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and
in about a month's time, by the end of which it was
seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trim-
med up as we sowed two and twenty bushels of bar-
ley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave
ourselves barley sufficient for our own food, for the
six months that we had to expect our crop; thatii
to say, reckoning from the lime we set our seed a-
side for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is sii
months in the ground in that county.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of all fear of savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the island, whenever we
found occasion; and as here we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine.
l''or this purpose,! marked out several trees which I
thought tit for our work, and 1 set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on that
affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and 1 caused them to do
the like, till they had made about a dozen large planks
of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long,
and from two inches to four inches thick: what pro-
digious labour it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time, 1 contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and, for this
purpose, I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we
took our turns,) and by this means we got about twen-
ty young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenev-
er we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
them to our Bock. But, above all, the season for cu-
ring the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious
quantity to be hong up in the sun, that, I believe, had
we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are
cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels;
and these, with our bread, was a great part of our
food, and was very good living too, I assure you, for
it is exceeding nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we bro't
in and threshed out above two bundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice ; which
was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me: or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to
•ay, any part of America. When we had thos hous-
ed and secured our magazme of corn, wefrll to work
to make more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy'
and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me lhal
1 did not make some things for defence of this kind
of work ; but I saw no need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind them there. I gave him a strict
charge not to bring uny man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who
was so kind as to send for them in order to their de-
liverance; but that they would stand by him, and de-
fend him against all such attempts, and wherever
they went, would be entirely imdrr and subjectid to
hia command; and that this should be put in writing-,
and signed with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I knew they had neither pen or ink,
was a question which we never asked. Under these
instruction*, the Spaniard and the old savage, the
father of Friday, M'ent away in one of the canoes
which they might be said to come in, or rather were
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be de-
voured by the savages. I gave each of them a niuh-
ket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good hus-
bands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work. being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twen-
ty-seven years and snme days. I gave them provis-
ions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for them-
selves for many days, and sufficient for all lhe Span-
iards for about eight days' time: and wishing them a
good vovage, I saw them go; agreeing with them a-
fcout a signal they should hang out at thm- retuin, bj:
which I should know them again, when they came
backt at a distance, before they came on shore. They
went away with H fair gale, on the day that the moon
was at full, by my account in the month of October;
but as for an exact reckoning of days, after 1 had
once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I
kept even the number of years so punctually asto be
sure I was right; though as it proved, when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a
true reckoning of years.
It was no 1ess than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened,
of which the like has not perhaps been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my butch one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they
are come!" I jumped up, and regardless of danger,
I went out as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove, which, by the way, was by
this time grown to be a very thick wood; 1 say, re-
gardless of danger, I went without my arms, which
Avas not my custom to do: but 1 was surprised, when
turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and ahalf distance, standing in for the
shore, with'a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in:
also I observed presently, that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this I called
Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these were not
the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-
glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
liill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being
discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill,
when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an
anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from
me, S.S.E. but not above a league and a half from
the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly
to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one I had reason to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and con-
sequently, friends, was such as I cannot describe ; but
yet 1 had some secret doubts bung about me, I can-
not tell from whence they came, bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider what business an English ship could have
in that part of the world, since it was not the way to
or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they
were really English, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had bet-
ter continue as I was than fail into the hands of thieves
and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility of Us being real. That
such MnUf and notices are given us;I believe few that
have made any observations of things can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and
:i converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme,or inferior and subordinate,
is not the question,) and that they are given for our
good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, come it from
whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in
a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently. I had not kept myself long in this pos-
ture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if
they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the conven-
ience of landing; however, as tbey did not come
fer enough, they dkl not see the little mlci
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat
on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from
me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise
they would have landed just at my door, as I may say,
ami would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and
perhaps have plundered me of all I had. When they
were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were En-
glismen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in
all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were
unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the
first four o:. five of them were jumped on shore, thev
took those three out of the boat, as prisoners: one ot'
the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gestures of entreaty, affliction and despair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two, I could per-
ceive, lilted up their hands sometimes, and appeared
concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be. Fridav
called out to me in English, as well as he could, "O
master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as
savage mani'."—"Why, Friday," says I, "do yon
think they are going to eat them then ?"—" Yes,"
says Friday, " they will eat them."—(. No, no," sai s
1, " Friday; I am afraid they will murder them, in-
deed, but yon may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while 1 had no thought of what the mutter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting eveiy moment when the three pris-
oners should he killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the sea-
men call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men;
and 1 expected to see him fall every moment; at
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill
in my veins. 1 wished heartily now for my Spaniard,
and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had
any way tii have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that 1 might have rescued the three men, for
I saw no tire-arms they had among them; but it fell
out to ui} minii another wny. After I hud observed
the outrageous usage of trie three men by the inso-
lent seamen, I observedtihe -fellows run scattering
about the island, as if they wanted to see the country.
I observed that the three other men had liberty to
go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like
raen in despair. This put me in mina of the first
time when I came on shore, and began to look about
me; how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I
looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions I
had; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear
of being devoured by wild beasts. As 1 knew noth-
ing, that night, of the supply I was to receive hy the
providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which I have since been so long
nourished and supported; so these three poor deso-
late men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and supply they were; how near it was to them, and
how effectually and really they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought them-
selves lost and their case desperate. So little do we
see before us in the world, and so much reason have
we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of
the world, that he does not leave his creatures so ab-
solutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstan-
ces, they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they
imagine, nay, are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to be brought to
their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and partly while they rambled
about to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the
water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drank a little too
much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them wa-
king a little sooner than the other, and finding the boat
too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the
re«t, who were straggling about; upon wltioli thtj all
soon fame to the boat: bu{ it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, al-
most like a quicksand. In this condition, like true
seamen, who are perhaps the least of all mankind
pnven to forethought, they gave it over, and away
they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of them say aloud to another, calling them off
from the boat, " Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you?
she'll float next tide:" hy which I was fully confirm-
ed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they
were. All this while I kept mvself very close, not
once daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than
to my place of observation, near the top of the hill;
and very glad I•was to think how well it was fortified.
I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could float again, and by that time it would be dark,
and I might be at more liberty to see •their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the
mean time, I titled myself up fora battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom 1 had made an excellent marks-
man with his gun, to load himself with arms I took
myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three mus-
kets. My figure, mdeed, was very fierce ; 1 had ray
formidable goat-skin soat on, with the great cap I
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pis-
tols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above- not to have made
any attempt till it was dark: but Ibont two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down tosleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep,
were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great
tree at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in
the figure as above, my man Friday at u good distwwo
behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but r
making quite so staring a spectrelike figure us I dki
} came ns near them undiscovered as I could, anc
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud tc
them in Spanish," What are ye gentlemen ?" The;
started up at the noise; but were tea times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth fig-
ure that I made. They made no answer at all, In!
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me.
when I spoke to them in English: "Gentlemen,"
said I, " do not be surprised at me: perhaps you mar
have a friend near, when you did not expect it."—
"He must be sent directly from Heaven then," eak
one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off hi
hat at the same time, to me; "for our condition i
past the hrlp of mas."—"All help is from Heaven
Sir," said I: " But can you put a stranger in the wai
how to help you? for yon seem to be in some greal
distress. I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came
with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill
you."
The poor man, with tears running down his facf.
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned.
"Am1 talking to God or man? Is it a real man o:
an angel ?"—"Be In no fear ahout that, Sir," said I:
"if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he woult
have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner than you see me: pray lay aside your fears:
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist
you: you see I hiwe one servant only ; we have arm?
and ammunition ; tell us freely, can we serve you'
\Vhat is your case ?"—^..Our case," said he, " Sir, i!
to long to tell you, whU4i'OUr murderers are so near
us: but, in short, sir, 1 was commander of that ship,
my men have uiutined against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me; and at lust
have set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
Iwo men with me, one my mate, the other a passen
ger, where we expected to perish, believing the place
to in/ uninhabited, mid know not yet vihul to think ol
it."—" Where are these brutes, your enemies?" said
I: "Do you know where they are gone ?"—" There
they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees;
"ray heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly
murder us all."—"Have they any fire-arms?" said
I. He answered, " they had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat." "Well then,"said
I, " leave the rest to me ; I see they are all asleep,
it is an easy thing to kill them all : but shall we rath-
er take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe
to show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he
believed all the test would return to their duty. I
asked him which they were? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he would
obey my orders in any thing I would direct. "Well,"
says I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further." So
they willingly went back with me, till the woods cov-
ered us from them.
"Look you, Sir," said I, "if I venture npon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling
me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should
be wholly directed and commanded by me in every
thing; and, if the ship was not recovered, be would
live and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him; and the two other men said the
same. "' Well," says I, " my Conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island with me,
you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is
or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man
to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention
or faith of man could devise, that he would comply
with these most reasonable demands; and, besides,
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon a!
occasions, as long as he lived." " Well then," said I.
"bere are three muskets for you, powder and ball
tell me next what you think" proper to be done."
He showed all the testimonies ot his gratitude that
he was able, but offered to be whollv guided by nx:.
.1 told him 1 thought it was bard venturing anvthingi
but the best method I could th'uik of was to fire upoo
them at once, as they lay, and if any were not killed
at the first \olley, and offered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot. He said very modestly, thai
he was loath to kill them, if he could help it: bul
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been
the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and ifthry
escaped, we should be undone still; for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's company, and
destroy us all. "Well then," says I, " necessity le-
gitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save oor
lives." However, seeing him still cautious of shed-
ding blood, 1 told him they should go themselves, and
manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them oo
their"feet. 1 asked him if either of them were the
heads of the muljny? He'said, No. "Well then,"
said I, "you may let them" escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to sa»e
themselves—Now," says 1, " if the rest escape you,
it is your fault." Animated with this, he took the
musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in
his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each »
piece in his hand; the two men who were with him
going first, made some noise, at which one of the sea-
men who was awake turned about, and seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then,
for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the
two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece
They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and
tie Mhw very moth wounded; but not being d*ad,
he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help
to the other; but the captain stepping to him, told
him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon
God to forgive his villany ; and with that word knock-
ed him down with the stock of his musket, to that he
never spoke more: there were three more in the
company, and one of them was also slightly wounded.
By this time I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare
their lives, if they would give him an assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guil-
ty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recov-
ering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could,
be desired, and he was willing to believe them, ami
spare their lives, which I was not against, only that 1
obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while
they were on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and sails, which they diil: and
by and by three straggling men, that were (happily
for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hear-
ing the guns fired: and seeing the captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bouud-also; and so our victory was
complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to ama'/.ement; and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with,
(irovisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my story is
a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
Dut when he reflected from thence upon himseff,
'j nl how I seemed to have been preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face,
and he could not speak a word. After this commu-
woatioa was at au cod, I carried him and his two me*
into my apartment, leading them in just where 1
came oat, viz. at the top of the house, where I re-
freshed them with such provision as I had, and show-
ed them all the contrivances I had made, during my
long, long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfect-
ly amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my
fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed mv
retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been now
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick, that it was impossible in any part
of it but at that one side where I had reserved my
little winding passage into it. I told him this was my
castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon tills occasion, and I would show him that too
another time: but at present our business was to con-
sider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me
as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a lost
what measures to take, for that there were still sis
and twenty hands on board, who having entered into
a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by
desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if
they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any
of the English colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a number
as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on speedily, a
well to draw the men on board into some snare for
their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us,
and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred
to me, that in a little while the ship's crew, wonder-
ing what was become of their comrades and of the
boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat, to look for them ; and that then perhaps they
might come armed, and be too strong for us.- this IK
-.lion-od to be rational. Upon this, I told him the
first thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which
lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
off; and taking every thing out of her, leave her to
far useless as not to be fit to swim; accordingly we
went on board, took the arms which were left on
board, out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a
few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar was five or
six pounds); all which was very welcome to me, es-
pecially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none
left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore,
(the oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were car-
ried away before, as above), we knocked a great hole
in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to
master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. In-
deed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could
be able to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if
they went away without the boat, 1 did not much
question to make her fit again to.carry us to the Lee-
ward Islands,and call upon our friends the Spaniards
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were tbus preparing our designs, and
had first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon the
lieach so high that the tide would not float her off at
liigh water mark, and besides, had brake a hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were set
ilown musing what we should do, we heard the ship
fire a gun, and make a waft with her ensign as a sig-
nal for the boat to come on board: but no boat stir-
red; and they fired several times, making other sig-
jials for the boat. At last, when all their signals and
firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not
stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist
another boat out, and row towards the shore ; and we
found, as they approached, that there were no less
than tell men in her, and that they had fire arms with
them.
VOL. I. M
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight even of their faces; because the tide having set
them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed
up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by
this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the
captain knew the persons and characters of all the
men in the boat, of whom he said there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered ani!
frightened; but that as for the boatswain, whoi
seems was the chief officer among them, and all thi
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew.
and were no doubt made desperate in their new en-
terprise; and terribly apprehensive he was that they
would be too powerful for us. I smiled at him, anii
told him that men in our circumstance's were past the
operatic of fear; that seeing almost every condition
that could be was better than that which we wert
supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the con-
sequence, whether death or lite, would be sure to be
a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the
circumstances of my life. and whether a deliverance
were not worth venturing for ?" And where, Sir/'
said I, " Is your belief of my being preserved here oo
purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little
while ago? For my part," said I, there seems to me
but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it."—" What
is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it is, thatai
you say there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared: had they been all of
the wicked part of the crew, I shoidd have thoughi
God's providence had singled them out to deliver them
into your hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they
behave to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encour-
aged him ; so we set vigorously to our business.
We had upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from lhc ship, oonsiderctl of separating our
prisoners; mid we had, indeed, secured them effectu-
ally. Two of them, of whom the captain was less as-
sured than ordinary, I sent wilh Friday, and one of
the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, snd nut of danger of being heard or
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woo;ls if
they could have delivered themselves: here they left
them bound, but gave them provisions; and promis-
ed them, if they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempt-
ed their escape, thev should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con-
tinement with patience, and were very thankful that
they had such good usage as to have provisions and
light left them; fur Friday gave them candles (such
as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they
did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them ; but the nthei two were taken
into my service, upon the captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed; and I made no doubt we
, should be able to deal well enough with the ten that
were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest men among them
also. As soon as they got to the place where their
other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach,
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them,
which I was glad to see, for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her,
and so we should not be able to seize the boat. Be-
ing on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to
their other boat; and it w;is easy to see they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above,
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After thev had mused a while upon this, they set u!
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all thei
might, to try if they could make their companioni
hear; but all was to no purpose: then they came all
close iii a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which, indeed, we heard, and the echos made the
woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we
were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. They were so astonished at the sur-
prise of this, that as they told us afterwards, they re-
solved to go all on board again to their ship, and It
them know that the men were all murdereil, and th
longboat staved ; accordingly, they immediately laun
ched their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even cor.-
founded at this, believing they would go on board thi
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for
lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was
in hopes we should have recovered; but he wts
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again: bul
with this new measure in their conduct, which ii
seems they consulted together upon, viz. to lean
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore
and go up into the country to look for their fellows
This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at loss what to do, as our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let
the boat escape ; because they would then row away
to the ship, and then the rest of them would be.sure
to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the shi}
would be lost. However, we had no remedy but it-
wait and see what the issue of things might present
The seven men came on shore, and the three who
remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait foi
them; so that it was impossible for us to come at
them in the boat. Those that came on shore-kept
close together, marching towards the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay; and we could sec
them plainly though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fii'ed at them, or
that they would have gone farther off, that we might
come abroad. But when they were come to the
brow of the hill, where they could see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not
caring it seems to venture far from the shore, nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to consider of it. Hal they thought fit to have gone
to sleep there, as the other part of them had done,
they had done the job for us; but they were too full
of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they
had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal tome upon-
this consultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
nil fire a rolley again, to endeavour to make their fel-
lows hear, and that we should all sally upon them,
just at the juncture when their pieces were all dis-
charged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked this
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again. But this event did not happen;
and we lay still a long time, very irresolute what
course to take.i At length Mold them there would
he nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then,
if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
find a way to get between them and the shore, and
so might use some stratagem with them, in the boat
to get them on shore. We waited a great while,
though very impr.tient for their removing; and were-
very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we sa''r
them all start up, and march down towards the sea.
it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions upo*
them of the danger of the place, that they resolved t»
go on boiinl tin: ship again, give their companions
over for lost, ani1 so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the
shore, I imagined it to be as it really was, that they
had given-over their search, and were for going back
again; and the captain, as soon as I told him mr
thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions ot'it;
but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them
back again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where
the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued,
and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at
about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as
loud as they could, and wak till they found the sea-
men heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the
seamen answer them, they should return it again; and
then keeping out of sight, take a i'ound, always an-
swering when the others hallooed, to draw them as
tar into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I
directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday
and the mate hallooed; and they presently heard
them, and answering, run along the shore westward,
towards the voice they heard, when they were pres-
ently stopped by the creek, where the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat
to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expect-
ed. When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone a good wayanto the creek,
and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, they
took one of the three men out of'her, to go along with
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. Th«
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Fri-
day and the captain's matg to their business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their
.
, sight, we surprised the two men before they were
, aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other
: being in the boat. The fellow on shore was between
sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knock-
ed him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed vety
few arguments to persuade a single man to yield'
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade
knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of the
three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincere-
ly with us. In the mean time, Friday and the cap-
tain's mate so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answer-
ins, from one hill to another, and from one wood to
another, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were very sure they could not
reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, in-
deed, they were heartily tired themselves also, by the
time they came back to us. t
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them. It was several hours after
Friday came back to me before they came back to
their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those be-
hind to come along; and could also hear them an-
ewer,and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster; which was very welcome
news to us. At length they came up to the boat:
but it is impossible to express their confusion when
they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could
hear them call to one another in a most lamentable
manner, telling on<; another they were got into an
enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there
were devils and spirits in it, and they should be all
can-led away and devoured. They hallooed again,
and called their two comrades by their names a great
many times, but no irtiswer. After some time, we
could see them, by the little light there was, run
about, wringing their hands like men in despair, and
that sometimes they would go and sit down in the
boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again, and
walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me given them leave to
fall upon them at onee in the dark; but I was willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them,
and kill as few of them as I could; and especially I
was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men,
knowing the others-were very well armed. I resolv-
e:d to wait, to see ifthey did not separate; and there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade
nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep
upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and
get as near them as they could possibly, before they
offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shown himself the nvost deject-
ed and dispirited of all the rest, came walking to-
wards them, with tvo more of the crew: the enptain
was so eager at having this principal rogue so much
in his power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they
only heard his tongue before: but when they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon
the spot; the next man was shot into the body, and
fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or
two after; and the third run for it. At the noise of
the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army,
which was now eight men, viz. myr.etf, generalissimo;
Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his
two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we
laal trusted with arms. We eams upou them, in-
'273
il, in the dark, so that '.hoy could not sec our num-
ber; ami I madt lhc man they had left in the host,
who was now one of us, to call them hy name, to try
if I could bring them to a parley, and so might per-
hnps reduce them to terms; whieh fell out just as MV
desired: for indeed it was easy to think, as their con-
dition then vras, they would he very willing to capitu-
late. So he calls out as loud as he could, to one of
lhem, "Tom Smith! Torn Smith!" Tom Smith an-
swrred immediately, "Is that Ho'hinson?" For it
'seems he knew the voice. The other answered,
'" Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down
yontr arms and yield, or you are all dead men thii
vnoment."—" Who must we yield to? Where are
they.'" says Smith again. "Here they are/'says he;
"here's onr c:iptai;t and fifty men with him, have
been bunting you these two hours: the boatswain is

yield," said llobinson: so he asked the captain ; ami
the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, yo:t
know my voice; if you lay down your arms immedi-
ately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins."
Upon this WiH Atkins cried out," For God's safcr,
capta'm, give me quarter; what have I done i1 Thev
have all been as bad as I:'' which, hy the war, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins win
the first map that laid hold of the captain, when they
first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurious language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms :.t
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by
which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their Kves; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who, bound them all; and then
my great army of fifty nurn, which, particularly with
VoL. i, M 2
those thcee, were in all but eight; came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat: otily that I kept
smyself and one more out of sight tor reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and tiiink of
- seizing the ship: and as for thecaptain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the -villany of their -practices with him,
and at length upon the further wickedness of their
design, and how certainly it must bring them to mis-
cry and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gal-
lows. They all appeared very penitent, anil begged
hard for their lives. A« for that, he told them they
-were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
sthe island; that they thought they had set him cm
shove in a barren, uninhabited inland ; but it had pleas-
ed God so to direct them, that it was inhabited, and
that the governor was :tn Englishman; that he might
bung them all there, if he pleased; but as he had
given them all quarter, he supposed he would-send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice re-
quired, except Atkins, whom he was commanded bv
the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that
he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to
-begAhe captain to intercede with the governor for his
life: and all the rest begged of him, foe God's rake,
that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliv-
erance was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in to behearty in. getting
possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a govern-
or they had, and called the captain to me: when I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was or-
xlered to speak again, and say to the captain, "Cap-
tain, the com-mander ealls for you;" and presently
the captain-replied,(t Tell his excellency I tun just a
coming." This more perfectly amused them, and
they all .believed that tkc commander -was Just by
with his fifty men. Upon the captain 'scoming to me,
I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he
liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in exe-
cution the next morning. But, in order to execute
it with more art, and to be secure of success, I told
him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should
go and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of
them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday, and the
two men who came on shore with the captain. They
conveyed them to the cave as to a prison: and it was,
indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their con-
dition. The others I ordered to my bower, as 1 cull-
ed it, of which I have given a full description; and us
it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the plttue was se-
cure enough, considering they were upon their beha-
viour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word, lo
try them, and teU me whether he thought they might
be trusted or not to goon board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were brought to, and that though the gov-
ernor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would nil be hanged in chains, to be sure; but
that if they would join in so just an attempt us to re-
cover the ship, he would have ihe governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, und promised,
with the deepest imprecations, that they would he
faithful to him to the last drop* and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; that they would own him as a father
to them aslongasthey lived. "Well,"says the cap-
tain, u I must go and tell the governor what you sny,
und see what I can do to bring him to cnuseui to it."
So he brought me an account of the temper he found
them in, and that he verily believed they would be
faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
lold him he should go back. again and choose out those
ihe,and tell them', that they might see he did not
\iant men, that he would take out those five to be his
nssistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
tastle (my cave) 33 hostages for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execu-
tion, the five hostages should be hanged in chaics
alive on shore. This looktu' severe, aud convinced
them that the governor was in earnest: however,
thev had no way left them but to accept it; and it
v. as' now the business of the prisoners, as much as of
lhe captain, to persuade the other five to do their
t' uty.
Our strength was now tbus ordered for the expe-
r.iiion: first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captain, I had
I'iven their liberty, and trusted them with arms:
third, The other two that I had kept till now in my
bower pinioned, but on the captain's motion,had now
released: fourth, These five released at last; so that
they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prison-
ers in the cave for hostages.
1 asked the captain if he was willing to venture
v.ith these hands on board the ship; but as forme
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind ; and it
v.as employment enough for us to keep them asun-
der, and supply them with victuals. As to the five
in the cave, 1 resolved to keep them fast, but Friday
swent in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I made the other two carry provis-
ions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person
the governor had ordered to look after them ; and
that it was the governor's pleasure they should not
stir any where bat by my direction ; that if they did,
they would be fetched into the castle, and be laid in
irons: so that as we never suffered them to see me as
a governor, I now appeared as another person, and
spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and
the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenger captain of one,
with four of the men ; and himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other; and they contrived .their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they
had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and the mate entering first,
with their arms, immediately knocked down the sec-
ond mate and carpenter with thebut end of their mus-
kets, being very faithfully seconded by their men;
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
Keep them down that were below; when the other
boat and their men entering at the fore chains, secur-
ed the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which
went down into the cook-room, making three men.
they found there prisoners. When this was done,
and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round-house, where
the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the
alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy had
got fire-arms in their hands: and when the "mate
with a erow split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mute with a musket ball, which broke his arm and
wounded two more-of the men, but killed nobody.
The mute calling for.help, rushed, however, into the
round bouse, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
(.hot the new captain through the head, the bullet
entering at his month, and came out again behind one
of Iils ears, so that he never spoke a word more : upon
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effect-
ually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thos secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his suc-
cess, which you may he sure 1 was very glad to hear
having sat watching upon the shore for it till near
two o'clock in the morning. Having thos heard the
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the
name of Governor, Governor, and presently I knew
the captain's voice; when climbing up to the top of
the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and de-
Iivej-er," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all
yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her." I
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode with*
little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had
'weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of
her, nnd, the weather being fair, had brought her in
an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and, the tide being up, the captain had brought lhe
pinnace in near the place where I at first landed roj
rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was at first
ready to sink down with surprise; for I saw my de-
liverance, indeed visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
whkher I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had
taken me in his arms, 1 held fast by .him, or I should
have fallen to the ground. He perceived the sur-
prise, and immediately pulls a bottle nut of his pock-
et, and gave me a dram of cordial, which hehadbnrt
on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat don
upon the ground; and though it brought me to mj-
self; yet it was a good while befora-1 could speaks
word to him. All this time the poor man was in as
great an eestasy as I, only not under any surprise, as
I was; and he said a thousand kind and tender things
'to me, to compose and bring me to myself: but such
was the flood of joy in my breast that it put all my
-spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into tears;
and in a little while after I recovered my speech. I
then took my turn, and embraced him as my deliv-
erer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me,
and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain
of wonders; that such things as these were the testi-
monies we hid of a secret hand of Providence gov-
erning the world, and an evidence that the eye of an
infinite power could search into the remotest corner
of the world, and send help to the miserable when-
ever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart in
thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart could for-
bear to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in
'such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliv-
erance must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me
he had brought me some little refreshment, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had
1ieen so long his masters had not plundered him of.
"Upon this he called aloud the boat, and bade his men
ttring the things ashore that were for the governor;
and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one that
was not to be carried awny with them, but MS if I had
been to dwell opon the island still. First, he had
brought me »case of bottles full of excellent cordial
waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles
held two quarts each,) two pounds of excellent good
tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six
Iiieees of pork, trith a bag of peas, and about an hon-
•dred weight of biscuit: he also brought me a box of
'sugar, a box of flour, a bagfull of lemons,and two bottles
of lime juice, and abundance of otherthings. But besides
'these, and what w*s a thousand times more osefal to
me, he brought me six new clean shirt', sis very
neckcloths, two pair of (flows, one pair of shces, n.
hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit
of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very
little; in a word, he clothed tin; (Vinn head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never
was any tiling in the world of that kind so sunpleasant,
awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such
clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were passed, and after all
his good things were brought into my little apart-
ment, we began to consult whnt was to be done with
the prisoners we had; for it'waa worth considering
whether we might vent'ire to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom he knew to
be incorrigible a: id refractory to the last degree; ami
the captain said he knew they were such rogues that
there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them
awny, ii must be in irons, as malefactors, to he deliv-
ered over to justice at the first English colony he
conld come at; and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it. Upon this I toM him that
if he desired it, I would undertake to bring- the two
men he spoke of to make it their own request thai
he should leave them upon Hie island. "I should he
very glad of that," says the captain, "with alt my
heart/'—"Well," says I, a I will send for them up,
and talk with them tor you." So I caused Friday
and the two hostages, for they were now discharged,
their comrades having performed their promise; 1
say, I caused them to go to the cave, and hring op the
five men, pinioned as they were, to ibe bower, aml
keep them there till I came. After some time, I
came thither dressed in my new habit; and now I
was called governor again. Being aH> met, and the
captain with me, I caused ths men to be brought be-
fore me, and I told them 1 had' got a fult account of
nil their villanous behaviour to the captain, and tow
they had run away with the shift and were preparing
to commit farther robberies, but that Providence had
ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were
fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. 1
then let them know that by my direction the shi]i
had been seized; that she lay now in the road; and
that they might see by and by, that their new captain
had received the reward of his villany, and that they
would see him hanging at the yard arm: that as to
them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I
should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact,
MS by my commission they could not doubt but 1 had
authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives,and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them 1 knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I
Itad resolved to quit the island with all my men, and
hod token passage with the captain to go for England;
nnd as for the captain, he could not carry them to
Kngland, other than ns prisoners, in irons, to be tried
for mutiny. and running away with the ship; the con-
sequence of which, they must needs know, would be
the gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the
island; if they desired that, as 1 had liberty to leave
the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. They
seemed very thankful for it, and said they would
much rather venture to stay there than be carried
to England to be hanged: so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some diffi-
c.ulty of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Up-
on this, I seemed a little angry with the captain, and
told him that they were my prisoners, not his; ami
that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I
would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty
as I found them; and if he did not like it, he might
take them again if he could catch them. Upou this.
they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods
to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some firearms, some ammunition, and some di-
rections how they should live very well, if they tho't
fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain I would stay that night to pre-
Iiare my things, and desired him to go on board, in
the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and
send the boat on shore next day for me; ordering
him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who a.«
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men
might see him.
When the captain was gone I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into
discourse with them on their circumstances. I told
them I thought they had made a right choice; that
if the captain had carried them away, they would cer-
tainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain
hanging at the yanl-arm of the ahip, and told them
they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them in the way of mak-
ing if easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the
wiiole history of the place, and of my coming to it;
showed them my fortifications, the way I made mr
bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a
word, all that WHS necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story also of the seventeen Spaniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves. Here it may be noted, that the
captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that I never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal
and water, or of something else, as I had done thing!
much more difficult.
I left them my firearms, viz. five muskets, three
fowling pieces, and three swords. I hadabove a lur-
vel and a half of powder left; for after the first year
or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave
them a description of the War I managed the goats,
mid directions to milk and fatten them, and to make
liolh butter and cheese: in a word, I gave them ev-
ery part of my own story i and told them I should
prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of
gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I
told them I would have been very glad of: also I
gave them the bag of pens which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on hoard the ship. We prepared immediately
to sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
enrly, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, and making the most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship
for God's sake, for they should be murdered, and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them immediately. Upon this the captain
pretended to have no power without me; but after
some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were
some time after soundly whipped and pickled; after
which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the
men; to which the captain, at my intercession, caus-
ed their chests and clothes to be added, which they
took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to
send any vessel to take (hem in, I would not forget
them.
When 1 took leave of this island I carried on board,
for rcliquet, the greut goatskin cap 1 had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by nu- s0 long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and handled; as also the money
I found iu the wreck ol'Ue Spanish ship.
And tbus I left the island the nineteenth of Decem-
ber, as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1683,
after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months, and nineteen days: being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the long-boat, from among the
Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage,
I arrived in England the llth of June, in the jear
1687. having been thirty-five years absent.
When I came to England, 1 was as perfect a stran-
ger to all the world as if I had never been known
there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I
had left my money in trust with, was alive, but had
had great misfortunes in the world; was become a
widow the second time, and very low in the world. I
vnmle her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring
her I would give her no trouble; but on the contrary,
in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to me,
I relieved her as my little stock would afford; which
at that time would indeed allow me to do but little
for her; but 1 assured her I would never forget her
former kindness to mo; nor did I forget her when I
had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its
proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother and all the family
extinct, except that 1 found two sisters, and two of
the children of one of my brothers; and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no pro-
vision madefor me ; so that, in a word, I found nothing
to relieve or assist me; and that the little meney I had
would not Oo much for me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
dill not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by the
same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners ol the manner
how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all together made me a very
homlsimic compliment upon the subject, and a pres-
ent of almost 200J sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would *
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some in-
formation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had
reason to suppose, had some years past given me
over for dead.
provmg a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
saptain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had
left off going to sea, having put his son, who wus fur
from a young man, into his ship, and who still used
'the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me;
and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought
him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself
to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old ac-
quaintance between us, I inquired, you may be sure,af-
ter my plantation and my partner. The old mantold
me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years:
Lut that he could assure me, that when he came away,
ray partner was living; but the trustees, whom I hiid
joined with him, to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead; that, however, he believed I would have
a very good account of the improvement of the plan-
tation; for that upon the general belief of my being
east away and drowned, my trustees had given in the
account of the produce of my part of the plantation,
to the procurator fiscal; who had appropriated it in
sase I never came to claim it, one third to the king,
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to
be expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that ttie im.
proveraent, or ammal production, being distributed
to charitable uses, coulil not be restored : he assured
me, tbut the steward of the king's revenue (from
lands) and the provedore or steward of the monaste-
ry, had tnken great care all along, that the incumbent,
that is to say my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they had duly re-
rceived my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what
height of improvement he had brought the plantation,
and whether he thought it might be worth looking
after ; orwhether, on my going thither, I should mc?t
with any obstruction to my possessing my just right
in the moiety?
He told me he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantations was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the
enjoying his part of it; mid that, to the best of his
remembrance, be had heard that the king's third of
my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some
other monastery or religious house, amounted to ubovc
two bundred moldores a year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no ques-
tion to be made of that, my partner being alive to
witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in
the register of the country; also be told me, that the
survivors of my two trustees were very fair honest
people, and very wealthy; and he believed I would
not only have their assistance for putting me in pos-
session, but would find a veiy considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held their trust,
and before it was given up, as above; which, as he
remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired oflbe old captain how it
came to pass that the trustees should ibus dispose of
my effects, when he knew that 1 had made my v. ill,and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my unireral
heir, &c.
He told tne that was true; but that as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as esec-
utor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and, besides, he was not willing to intermed-
dle with a tiling so remote: that it was true he had
registered my will, and put in his claim ; and could
he have given any account of n-.y being dead or alive
he would have acted by procuration, and taken pos-
session of the ingeino(so they called the sugar house),
and have given his son, who was now at the Brazils,
orders to do it.
"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so accep-
table to you as the rest; and that is, believing you
were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in
your name, for the first six or eight years' profits,
which I received. There being at that time great
disbursements for increasing the works, building an
ingeino, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near
so much as afterwards it produced: however," says
the old man, "I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how 1 have disposed
of it."
After a few days' farther conference with tiiis an-
cient friend, he brought me an account of the first
six years income of my plantation, signed by my part-
ner and the merchant-trustees, being always deliver-
ed in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests,
besides rum, molasses, &e. which is the consequence
of a sugar work; and I found by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased; but,
as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at
first was small : however the old man let me see
that he was debtor to me four bundred and seventy
moidoresof gold, besides sixty cheats of sugar, and
fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his
ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to
Lisbon, about -eleven years after my leaving the
place.
The good man then began to complain of his mis-
fortunes, *md how he had been obliged to make use
of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a
share in a new ship, "However, my old friend,"
says he," you shall not want a supply in your neces-
sity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall ba
fully satisfied."
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me
one bundred and sixty Portugal moidorc.s in goW;
and giving the writings of his title to the ship, which
his son was gone to the Hrazils in, of which he was a
quarter-part owner, and his son another, hcputs them
both into my hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the-poor man to-be able to bear this; and re-
nte Dibring what he -had done for me, how he had ta-
ken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain
weeping at what he had said to me; therefore I ask-
ed him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so
much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him? He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money,
and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full ijf affection,
and I--could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;
m short, I took one bundred of the moidores, and
^called for a pen and ink to give lura a receipt for
them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if
sever I had possession of the plantation, I would return
the other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did);
and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's
ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I
wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to
pay me; and if I did not, but come to receive what
sIie.gave me reason to expect, I would never hare. a.
penny more from him.
When this wns passed, the old man asked me if he
should put me into a method to make my claim to
my plantation? 1 told him I thought to go over to it
myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but that
if i did not, there were ways enough to secure my
right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to
niy use: and as there were ships in the river of Lis-
bon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me en-
ter my name in a public register, with his affidavit,
affirming, upon oath, that 1 was alive, and that I was
the same person who took up the laud for the plant-
ing the said plantation at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staying with him
til! an account came of the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the sur-
vivorsofmy trustees, the merchants, for whose ac-
eotmt I went to sea, in which were the following par-
ticular letters and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pro-
duce of my farm or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for six years; the balance appeared to he
one thousand onc bundred and seventy-four moidores
in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years
more, while they kept the effects in their hands, be-
fore the government claimed the administration, as
being the effects of a person not to be found, which
they called civil death; and the balance of this, the
value of the plantation increasing, amounted to nine-
teen thousand four bundred and forty six crusadoes,
being about three thousand two bundred and forty
moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of St. Augustine's
account, who had received the profits for above four-
teen years; but not being to account for what »aa
VOL. I. N
disposed of lly the hospital, very honestly declared he
had eight bundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to mv account:
:is to the king's part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me
au account how the estate WHS improved, and what it
produced a year; with u particular of the number of
squares or acres th:it it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were upon it, and making two and
twenty crosses for hlessii1gs,tuld mehe had said so ma-
ny .1vc -I/amis to thank the Messed Virgin that I
v as idive; inviting me very passionately to come. over
:nitl U.ke possession of my own; and, in the mean
lime, to give him orders to whom he should deliver
my effects, if I did not come mvself; concluding wilb
s heartv tender of his friendship, and that of his fam-
i!v; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopard's
s\ii:s, whiclL.be had, it seems, received from Africa,
hy some other chip that he had sent thither, and a ho,
it seems, had made a better voyage thau I. Ue sent
iue also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a
bundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
ino dorcs.
By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees ship-
ped me one thousand two bundred chests of sugar,
light hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the
v bole account in gold. x
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning. It is impossi-
ble to express the flutterings of my very heart when
I found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil
ships come all in fleets^ the same ships which brought
my letters brought my goods: and the effects were
safe in the river before the letters came to my hand.
In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick ; and had
not the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I be-
lieve the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature,
and I had died upon the spot: nay. after that, I con-
tinued very ill, and was so some hours, till a lihyti-
i-inu being'sent for, and something of the real cause
of my illnesw being known, he ordered, eic to ht• Ivt
blood; after which 1 had relii•f, and ;,rew well; but
I rerHy believe, if 1 lu.ii not been cased by a tent
ii'ivn in that nuinncr lu the s;'ints. 1 should hnve
tlied.
I wre now master, ?.\\ on M sudden, of above five.
thonMind po'mds sterling in mnne} , and h;t,! an rstuU',
sth 1 t:,J;,'jii well CH!! it, in the ttntzils, of above a thou-
sand poundsa yrnr, us BUM' ;is MI eslnle of lands in
(v;;p.!;!i;;i : :uu!f ih a wottl, l,v.:i:•. in ;i condilioti uhic•U
1 fav'HtTc knew h«w to n;xlvi 5Und, cr liovv lit comitrise
•ajseH'tov lite enjoyment of it. '1'ht tirS't tiiing I did•
w;is to rrcompenBe my uri^inul benefneior, tny gusiU:
<.':! ''.''; t•'.in, w)iifliHil Ii. .-h ficst t'barituble to me io
i«y iij:ilreiH, khiri to me in nty beginning, and Jioiu st
til iut: Ht the t•U.'i- !:-iu;.•,<'<i lum all licit nil-' sent Ur
Vie ; I told iiim, ln:it next to liie provuienee of Kca-
-\en, wblch dJSiiosed itil thin{:si it w:is osiiif to hini;
:.;all U.:M it tio*' lav on Rie to rew:u'd htm. vhirh I
<,vn;ii<i do a bundred told : so I iirst returnee to bim
the bundred moidores ?' batl received ofbtm; tcitn £
scut tor a notnry, and c:ni&ed bhn to draw up a gen-
.iTal r.'!r,,:.c or ili:n'h;irL;i' from tho four bundreil nnd
Koventy moiiiores, vbich he l^d acknowled^ed fie
'owed me. in.the fullest and firmest numner iKifafciblc,
After wbicb I Liaised a procuration lo be drawn, em-
•|:owtrin}!: Itim tobe my receiver ol'the annual ;irofjts
<j{'niy plantntion; anil :ilipoinling m\ lmrtner to be-
« ount with him, aru\ make the returns by the usual
fleets to him in my imme ; nud :i ulause in the ru).
bemg a grynt of one Iumdrcd moidores a year to him
•rfuring his life, out of the effl-cU, and fifty moidorefa a
year LU his son after him, for his life: und tbus 1 re-
^nited my old mun.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had tbus put into my hantls; nnd, indeed, 1 had more
-';i';'i' upon my head now th.inl hud in my silent stute
<if life in the Island, where I wanted nothing but what
J fcad, and had nothing but what 1 wanted; wbvree*
J kaU now & great iibarge upw w, aud my
was how to secure it. I had never a cave now to
hide my money in, or a place where it might lie with-
out lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished be-
fore any body would meddle with it; on the contra-
ry, I knew ndt where to put it, or whom to trust with
it. My old patron the captain, indeed, was honest,
and tir.it was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Rrazils seem-
ed to summon me thither; but now I could not tell
how to think of going thither till I had settled my af-
fairs, and left my effects in somc safe hands behind
me. At first 1 thought of my old friend the widow,
who I knew was honest, and would be just to me;
but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
aught I knew, might be in debt; so that, m a word,
I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon tills; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been mv
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose busband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful stew-
ard and instructer. So the first tiling I did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in
London, not only to pay. R bill, but to go find her out,
and carry her in money a bundred pounds from me,
and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty,
by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further
supply: at the same time I sent my two sisters in the
country a bundred pounds each, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one
having been married and left a widow ; and the other
having a busband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and
have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, nat-
nralized to the place ; but I had some little scruple
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
back. However, it was not religion that kept me
from going there for the present; and as I had made
no scruple of being openly of the religion of the eoun-
try all the while I was among them, so neither did I
yet; only that, now and then, having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of
living and dying among them, I began to regret my
having professed myself a I'apist, and thought it might
not be the best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Urazils, but that really I
did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so 1 resolved, at hist, to go to England with it,
where, if I arrived,1 concluded I should make some
acquaintance, or find some Delations that would be
faithful to me ; and accordingly, I prepared to go to
lingland with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first, the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved
to give answers suitable to the just and faithful ac-
count of things I had from thence; and, first, to the
prior of St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks
for their just dealings, and the offer of the eight bun-
dred and seventy-twomoidores which were undisput-
ed of, which I desired might be given, five bundred
to the monastery, and three bundred and seventy-two
lo the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the
good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote
next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all
the acknowledgment that so much justice and hon-
esty called for; as for sending them any present, they
were far above having any occasion for it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works; giving
him Instructions for his future government of my part,
according to the powers I had left with my old pat-
ron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became
tlue to me, till he should hear from me more partar-
idnrlf; assuring Vim that it was my intention not
only to come to Mm, but to settle myself there for
thr remainder of my life. To this 1 added a very
handsome present of some Italian silks' for his wife
and two daughters, for such the captain's son infnrm-
s"sI me hehwl; with two pieces of fine English broad
cloth, the beat I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of
black baize, and some Flanders luce of a good value.
Having tbus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into gix*l hills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way m go to Kuglaiut: I
bud been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to ii;o to England by sea at that
time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet
the difficulty increased upon me sn much. that though
I had once shipped ray baggage in order to go, yet I
altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three
times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunnte by sea,and
this might be one of the reasons; but let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in ea-
srs of such moment: two of the ships which I had
singled out to go in, I mean more pMrticuhtrly sing-
led out than any other, having put my things on
board one of them, and in the other to have agreed
with the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarri-
ed, viz. one was taken by thi; Algerines,and the Oliv-
er was cast away on the Start, neiu. Torbay, and all
the people drowned, except three; so that in either
ot those vessels I had been made miserable.
Having been tbus harrassed in my ihougUts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing,
pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to
go by land to the Garonne, and cross over the Bav of
Hiseay to Hochelle, from whence it was but an easy
:i!!s! safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the
way by land through France. In a word, I was so
prepossessed against my going by sea at »ll, except
from Calais to Hover, that I resolved to travel all
lii.c way by land; which, as I was not in haste, ao*l
did not value the charge, was by much the pteasantcr
May: and to make it more so, my old captain brought
an English gentleman, the son ot a merchant in Lis-
bon, who was willing to travel with me; after which
we picked up two more English merchants also, ami
tao young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to
Paris only; so that in all there were si\ of us, and
five servants; the two merchants and the two Portu-
guese contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save the charge; and as for me,I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides
my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to hi:
capable of supplying the place of a servant on the
road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our
company being very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call (ne captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed was
the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so I shall trouble you now with none of my lanil
journal; but some adventures that happened io us in
this tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some lime ID
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth ob-
serving; but it being the latter part of the summer,
we hastened.away, and set out froni Madrid about
the middle of October; but when we came to the
edge of Navariv, we were alarmed, at several towns
on ihe way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountains, that seve-
I-M! travellers were obliged to come back to Pampc-
luna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard,
to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed; and io me, thut had been always used to -i
hot climate, and to countries where I could scarce
hear any cloihes on, the cold was insufferable: not.
indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to come
but ten days before out of Old Castile,. where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and imme-
diately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains
so .very keen, so severely cold, as to he intolrrab!- s.
and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our fui-
gers and toes.
1'oor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow; and felt cold weath-
er, which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampelu-
nat it continued snowing with so much violence aud
so long that the people said winter was come before
its time ; and the roads, which were difficult before,
were now i;uke impassable; for, in a word, the snow
lay in some places too thick for us to travel, and be-
ing not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern
countries, then: was no going without being in. dan-
ger of being buried alive every si ep. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Vampeluna; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being
better, for it was lhe sevurcst winter all over Europe
that had been known in Ihc memory of man, I pro-
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and
there take shipping for liourdeaux. which was a very
little voyage.
But while I was considering this. there came in
four French gentlemen, who having been stopped on
the French side of the passes, as we were on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the
country near the head of Languedoe, haij brought
them over the mountains by such ways that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; for
where they met with snow i:i any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
hOJ'Ses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he wovdd un-
dertake to carry us the same way with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently
I't protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for, he said.
"1 ion these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot of the moun-
1:iiire, bem!* m:w!e ravenous for want of fond, the
^roufld bring covered with snow. We told him -we
were well enough prepared lor such creatures as they
werej it' he would ensure us from a kind of two leg-
i*ed waives, whieh, we were told, we were- in most
danger from, especially ou the French side ol the
nioantuini*.
Me satisfied us that there was no danger oftluit kind
in the way that we were to go, so we readily agreed
l« follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen,
swlih their servants, somu I-Yench, soreeSpanish, who,
at I said, had attempted to go, and wore obliged to
come 'back again. /
Accordinglv, we set out IVom Pampelunn, with oar
;tuidr, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was
sin'in-ised,-si-hen, instead of goi:ig forward, he came
ilirvetly back aith us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having pass-
ed two rivers, and come into the plain country, -we
found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the
country was pleasant,.and no snow to be seen ; but on a
Midden, turning to his left, he approached the moun-
tain!* auother way ; and though it is true the lulls and
lin-cipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many.
tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding.
wars, that we .insensibly passed the height of the
mountains without being much encumbered with, the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us-the pleas*
iuil and fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascony,
alI green and flourishing, though, indeed, at a great
distance, and we had some rough way to passstilJ.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we
could not-travel i but ha hid us be easy; we should s
soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north thau
Lfcfore; and so, depending upon our guide, we weut
on.
It was about two hours before night, when oar
guide being something before us, and not Justin aiglu,
o-.it rushed three monstrous-wolves, and after ilium a
vui. I. N '2. s'
boar, out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood:
two of the wolves madent the guide, and had he been
far before ns, he would have been devoured before
we could have helped him; one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with
that violt'ce, that he had not time or presence of
mind enough todraw his pistol, but hallooed and cried
•oat to us most lustily. My man Friday being next
me, I bade him ride up, and sec what WHS the matter.
As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he hal-
'looed out as I oud ns the other, "O master! O mas-
ter !" but like a bold fellow, rode directly np to the
poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that at-
tacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having been used to such creatures in
his country, he had no fear upon him, but went close
up to him and shot him, as above; whereas any oth-
er of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I; and, indeed, it alarmed all our-company,
when with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on
both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and
the noise, redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious num.
her of them; and perhaps there was not such a few
as that we had no cause of apprehensions: however,
as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had
;fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and
fled, without doing him any damage, having happily
festened apon his head, where the bosses of the bri-
•die had stuck in his teeth. But the man was most
hurt t for the raging creature had bit him twice, once
in the arm, and the other time a little above his knee;
and though he had made some defence, he was just
as it were tumblingdown by thedisorderofhis horse,
when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
, It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we a|| raemif.d our nace, and rode up as fastM
the way, which was very difficult, would give us leave,
to see what WHS the matter. As soon as we came
clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had
disengaged the poor guide, though we did not pres-
ently discern what kind of creature it was he had
killed.
Hut never was a fight managed so hardily, and i;i
such a surprising manner HS that « ' ich followed be-
tween Friday gnd the boar, vvhicL gave us all, though
stt first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaguiable. As the bear is a heavy
"clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
'who is swift and light. so he Ims two partic'dar i;uali-
lies, which generally are the rule of Ms actions: first,
'as to men, who are not his proper lirey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him,
unless he be excessive bungry, which it is probable
ini^ht now be the c::se, the ground being covered
with snow,) if you do not meddle with him, he will
not meddle with you; but then vou must lake care
to he very civil to him, and givu him the road, for he
is a very nice gentleman; he will not ;ro a step out of
his way for a prinec; nay, if }ouine really afraid,
your best way'is to look another way.and keep going
on; for somer.mes if you- stop and stand still, and look
'steadfastly at bini, he takes it fur an aftVont: but if
'you Ibrow or toss any thiyg at him, and it bits him,
though it were bul a hit of a stick as big as your fin-
ger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other busi-
ness aside to pursue his revenge, and will have saiis-
f.ictiou in point of honour;—this is his first qnidiiy:
the next is, if he be once affronted, he will never !t-:oe
Vou, night nor day, till he hi\s his revenge, hut t'i;l-
lows at a good round rate till he overtakes vou.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off Cioui his
liurse, for the man was both burt and tVightein-ii,
when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of I!H-
wood, and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by
"far ibut ever I SUM. We were all a little surprised M hen
we saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was e*y
to see joy and ciiurage in theft-How's countenance:
"O, O, O '." says Friday, three times pointing to him;
's O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand
with him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased:
"You fool," says I, "he will e:it yon up."—
"Eatee me up! catee me up!" s iys Friday twice
orcr again; "me eatce him up; me makee yon
good laugh; you all stuy here, me show you good
'langh." So down he sits, and gets oft' his boots in a
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the
flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),
gives my other servant his horse, and with bis gun
away he flew, soift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and ofTered li»
meddle with noliudy, till Friday coming pretty near,
talk to him, as if Ihe bear could understand hb-.
"Hark ye, hi,rk ye," says Friday, " me speakee with
you." \Ve followed at a distance, for now being
come down on the Gaflcony side of the mountain*, we
were entered a vast forest, where the countrv was
plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it
scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up wjth him quickly,
and takes up a great stone and throws it at him, and
hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm
than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it answer-
ed Friday's end, for the i\r.;ue was so void of fear thi:t
he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and
show us Rome laugh, as he called it. As soon as the
bear felt the blow, and saw him he turns about, and
comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and
sbuffling on at a strange rate, so as would have put a
horse to a middling gallop: away runs Friday, and
takes his course as if he run towards us for help; so
we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and do
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily
for bringing the bear back upon us, when he was go-
ing aliout his own business another way: and especial-
ly I was angry that he had turned the bear up-

on in, tmd then run away; and I calleij out, "Yon
dog, is this your making us laugh? Come away, iun I
take your horse, that we may shoot the creatun-."
Me heard me und cried out, "No shoot, no shoot;
i-tand slill, :m.l you get much laugh:" and as the nim-
ble creature ran two feet tor the bear's one, he tun:-
eil on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a gre«l
oak tree tit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to fnl-
; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the
e, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about
five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. Tlu:
iear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a dis-
tance: the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
Bmelled to it, but let it lie, and ali he scrambles intn
tin; tree, climbing like a eat, though so monstrous
heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of
my man, and could not for my ike see any thing to
laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we
all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday grvt
out to the small end of a large branch, and the brar
got about half way to him. As soon as the bear got
out to that part where the limb of the tree was weak-
er,—" Ha!" says he to us, " now you see me teachce
the bear dancer' so he fails a jumping and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, nnd began to look behind him, to sec how
he should get buck: then, indeed,ue did laugh hear-
tily. Hut Friday had not done with him by a great
de:d; when seeing him stand slill, he calls out to him
again, as if he had supposed the bear coukl sprak
English, "What,you come no farther? pray you
come fari.her;" so he left jumping and shaking the
tree; and the bear.just as if he understood what he
said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again. We thought now
was a good time to knock him in the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the hear:
hut he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O piny! no
shoot, me shoot by and then:" he would have said
b) and by. However, to shorten the story, Friday
ilanced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that
we had laughing enough, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off"; and we found
the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fust with his great broad claw s and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, aod
what the jest would beat last. Hut Friday pat us
out of doubt quickly: for seeing the hear i 1 ing fast io
the bough, and that he would not be persuaJed to
come any farther, '' Well, well," says Frtday, you no
come farther, me po: you no come to me, me
come to you:" and upon this he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bvnd wit if
his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding
down the bough till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet, and awav he runs to his gun, takes
ii up, and stands still. "\Vell," said I to him, " Fri-
day, what will you i!o now? Why don't you shoot
him ?"—" No shoot," says Friday, " no yet; me shoot
now, me no kill; me stay, give A on one more laugh:"
and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently; for
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
from the bough where'he luxxl, but did it mighty cau-
tiously, looking behind him every step, and coming
backward till he got into the body of the tree; thru
with the same hinder cud foremost, he came doan
the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one
foot at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and
just before he could set his hind foot on the ;.; v
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle
of his ptece into hls ear, and shot him dead.- '1 ht•u
the rogue turned about to see if we did not taugh;
and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, im
f;dls a laughing himself very loud. "So we kill licar
In my country," says Friday. "So you kill Them:"
Miys I, " why, you have no guns."—'' No," says In-,
'' no gun, but shoot great much long arrow." This
w;ts a good diversion to us.; but wr were slill in n wild
place, and our guide very much hort,, ami. ulioi tu &
we hardly knew: the howling of wolves ran much in
Tny head ; and, indeed, except the noise I once bean!
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that filled me
with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
oIT, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth .saving; but we had near
three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so
we left him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with smow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and
the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed
^by bunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
•lenl of mischief in the villages, where they surprised
the country people, killed a great many of their sheep
and horses, and some people too. We had one dan-
gerous place to pass, which our guide told us if there
were more wolves in the country we should find them
there; and this was a small plain, surrounded with
woods one very side, and a long narrow defile, or lane,
which we were to pass to get through the wood, and
then we should come to the village where we were
to lodge. It was within half an hour of sunset when
we entered the first wood, and a little after sunset
when we came into the plain; we met with nothing
in the first wood, except that in a little plain within
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we
saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one
after another, as if they had been in chase of some
prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us,
and were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon
this our guide, who by the way was but a faint-heart-
ed fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he be-
lieved there were more wolves a coming. \Ve kept
our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw
no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a league, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion
enough to look about us: the first object wertkt Mirh
TMIS a dead horse. thai ib to Miy, :i poor horse which
iho wolves hud killed, and at least a dozen of them at
work, ire could not say eating of him, but picking ot'
his bones rather; for they hud eaten up all the fltsh
Itt:fttre. We did not think fit In disturb theni at their
lV:t?t, nekhertlid they t:tke much notice of IK. Frk!ar
would have let fly at them, but I'wooltl not suffer
him by any means; for I (omul we weie like to hove
more business upon cur Lands th.sn we uere aware
•;f. \Ve were not gone half over the plain, \vhcn we
bi';J:m to lu-nr the wolves howl in tht- wood on our left
iii :i frightful msnuiT, and prestntly .nftiT \ve saw :t-
i.:ml a bundred coming on directly towui\l* cs, all in
tt Ixttiv, aim most of them in u line, irs regularly HS an
aitny drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce
'....s-.. in \vhnt nisiumv to receive thcoi, Imt tbtini!, ii.1
*:raw onrtcives in a close line was the only way; so
v .- formed in a moident: buttbut we might uot luire
too much interval, I ordered that only eiery ctfu-r
umn should fire, :tnd tlnit the others uho bud not5rctl
s!loidd stand ready to give them a second \oltey iiu-
mcdi-!lcly, if they continued to Hdvaaccupon us; und
, I'i-i i that those uho had fired Ht first shoulil not preteiid
Hi load their fusees again, but stand ready, every one
witU a pistol, for we were ail armed with a fusee and a
pnir of pistols each man ; so w e were, by this mt'thod,
able to fire six volley s, half of us at a lime; however,
at present -.ve hud no nect-ssity; for upon firing the
lirst volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrifi-
ed as well with the noise as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in Uie head, dropped ; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by
the snow. I found they stopped, but did not imme-
diately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had
hevn toh; that the fiercest creatures were terrified at
Ute voice of a man, I caused all the company to hal-
liio as loud as we could; and I found the rwitiou not
ui'io£t-thi r mistaken; for upon our shout they began
ion.-i.iv. and turn about. I then ordered a secoml
*•&; t-j Lu iu-ed u their rear, which put them Utlhc
Irallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave
us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we
might lose no time, we kept going: but we had Imt
little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves
in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
vame wood on our left, only that it was farther ou-
\vard, the snme way we were to go.'
The night was coming on, and the light began \o
be i!u: L;,, which made it worse on our side; but the
noise increasing, we could easily perrchc that it was
the bowling and yelling of those hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops
of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in
our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded wiih
them: however as they did not fall upon us, we kept
mir way forward, as fast as we could make our horses
£O, which, the way being very rough, was only agood
hard trot. In this manner we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass,
nt the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when coming nearer the iane or pass, we
saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the
entrance. On a sudden, at another opening of the
wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on
him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen
wolves alter him full speed ; indeed the horse hnd
the heels of them, but as we supposed that he could
nut bold it at that rate, we doubted not but they'
would gut up with him at last; no question but they
diJ.
15ut here we had a most horrible sight: for, riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, wo
found the carcasses of another horse and of two men,
devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the
men was no doubt the same whom we heard Ere the
gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as
to the man, bis head and the upper part of his body
were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we
knew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
tolt ed us soon, for they gathered about us presently,
H
in holies of prey; and I verily believe there were hnn-
ilred of them. It happened very much to our ad-
vantage, tlmt at the entrance into the wood, but a tit;
tie way from it, there lay aome large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, am! I
suppose lay there for carriage. I drew mr little
troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in v
a line behind one long tree, I advised them all to a-
light, and keepingthat tree before us for a breastwork,
to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing oar
horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well we
did; for never was a more furious charge than the
•t-eatures made upon us in this place. They came
on with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork,
as if they were only rushing upon their prey; ami
this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasion-
ed by their seeing our horses behind us. I ordert.it
our men to fire HS before, every other man; and they
took their aim so sure, that they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was u necessity
to keep a continual firing, for they came on like du-
vils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had find a second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for oihers
came forward again; so we fired two volleys of oui'
pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed **
twice us many, yet they came on again. I was lonlh
to spend our shot too hastily ; so I called my servant,
not my man Friday, for he was belter employed, for,
with the greatest d'exterity imaginable, he had charg-
ed my fnsee and his own while we were engaged;
but, as I said. I called my other man, and giving him
a horn of powder, I bade him Iny a train ail along thn
piece of timber, and let it be a large train. tie did so;
and had but just time to get away, when the wulvca
came up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snap-
ping an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on
»re: those that were upon the timber were scorched

nith it, nml six or seven of them ft-ll, or rather jump-
ex I in among us, with the force and fright of the fire;
wo dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were
so frightened with the light, which the night, tor it
was now very near dark, mnde more terrihle, that
they drew hack a liule; upon which I ordered our
last lminis to be fired oft' in one volley, and after that
we gave a shout: upon this the wolves turned ts\r'>
and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell
a cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation; for the crying and howling they made
was better understood by their fellows; so that they
all fled and left us,
We had, first und last, killed about threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being tbus cleared. we
Tuiulo forward ag:tin, for we had still near a league to
go. We heard the ravenous cieatures howl and yell
in the woods us we went, several times, and some-
times we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow
ilazzling our eyes, we were not certain: in about an
hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and nil in
Anns; for, it seems, the night before, the wolves anl
some bears had broke into the village, and put them
in such terror that they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in ihe night, to preserve
.their cattle, and, indeed, their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs swelled so nmth with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther: so we were
obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Ton-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor any
thing like them: but when we told our story at Tou-
louse, they told us it was nothing but what was ordi-
nary in the great forest at the font nf the mountains,
especially when the snow hiy on the ground: but
thev inquired much what kind of a guide we had got,
who would venture to bring us that wny in such a .*:-
vere season; and told it was surprising we were not
all devoured. When we told them how we placed
ourselves, and the horses in the miihlle, they blamed
us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we
had been all destroyed; fur it was the. sight of the
dorses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
prey; and that, at other times, they are really afraid
of a gun; but being excessive hongry, and raging on
that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger; and that if we had
not, by the continued lire, and at hist by the strata-
gem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still oR
horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not
have taken the horses so much tor theirowu, when men
were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal thev tuM
us, that at last, if we had stood all together, and leftour
horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them that we might have come off safe, espe-
cially having our fire-arms in our hands, and being
vo many in number. For my part I was never so
sensible of danger in my life; for seeing above three
hondred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to
vlevour us, and having nothing to shelter us or relrcat
to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as it was, I he-
lieve I shuH never care to cross those mountatn- a-
gain; 1 think I would much rather go a thousnul
leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with >
storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in mj
passage through France, nothing but what other trav-
ellers have given an account of with much more ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to
Paris, and without.any considerable stay came to Ca-
lais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January,
after having a severe cold season to travel in.
I wus now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe
about me; the bills of exchange which 1 brought
with me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the mon-
ey 1 had sent her, thought no pains too much, nor
care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted he;"
so entirely with every thing that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I wa*
very happy from the beginning, and now to the end,
in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now having resolved to dispose of my planta-
tion in the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lis-
bon; who having offered it to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils,
they accepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three
thousand pieces-of-eight to a correspondent of theirs
at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for 32,-
800 pieces-of-eight for the estate; reserving the pay-
ment of 100 moid ores a year to him (the old man)
<luring his life, and 50 moldores afterwards to his son
fnr his life, which I hud promised them; and which
the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge.
And tbus I have given the first part of a life of for-
tune and adventure, a life of Providence's chequer-
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom
be able to show the like of: beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of U ever
gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, I was past running any more ha-
zards, and so indeed I hart been, if other circumstan-
ces had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations ; nor, howev-
er rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; amI
though L had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could
not keep that country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be upon the wing again; especially I
could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my
island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in be-
ing there, My true friend, the widow, earnestly d»-
hiutdett me from it, and so far prevailed with me, rtmt,
for almost inveit ysan,, she prcvcnlef! my running
:Jini;ul; during vvhich time I took my two nephew*!
the children of one of my brothers, into my care : the
eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a
gentleman, and gave h'nu :t settlement of some addi-
tion to his estate, after my decease. The olberl
put out to a captsih of A ship: and alter five yean,
finding him u sensible, bold, enterprising young Iel-
low, \ put him inl« a good ship, ai.il sent him to kca:
smd itils youn!; fellow uftecwarda drew me in, as old
hs I was, to farchor advtnLio'es myself.
In the mean time, I in part sellUd myself here;
for first of ull, I married, and that not either to mv
disadvantage or ihssntisfaction, and had threech'ihh vti,
t .vo sons and wie daughter; but my \tiie ,!', i:.'',.,.,:
my nephew coming home vtih gond succesS from *
voyage to Spain, uiy inolinaiiou to go abroad, aud his
importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
sUip as a privnte trader U; the Kast ItnKcS: this ''...*
iu the year IC.94.
In tltis voyage 1 visited my new colony in the b-
land, saw my s•accessofs l!ie Spaniards, had the whole
story of lht:ir lives, and of the villains I left there, how
at first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they
nfterwurds agrerd, disagreed, united, separated, awl
how al last the Spaniards were obliged tnuhc violence
vaththem; how they were subjected to the Span-
iards; how honestly the Spaniards used them; a his-
tory, if it were entered into, as full of variety aiul
VDiulerful accidents a§ my own part: particulurli
also us to their battles with the Carribbeans, who
hinded several times upon the island, tmda&tothe
improvement they made upon the island itself; utul
how five of them made an attempt upon the muu
land, and brought awuy eleven men and five women
prisoners; by which, at my coming, I found uboui
twenty youug children on the island.
Mere I stayed about twenty duys; left them tu;i-
pliea of all necessary tiiings, and particularly ofnrnii,
powder, sho;, clotUea, tools, and two wwka."en, wLwU
I brought from England with me; viz. a carpel'.tor
and H smith.
Hesi!les this. I shared the lands into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of tht; whole,
hut gave them such parts respectively as they agreed
i;iu and, having settled all things with them, and en-
gaged them nni to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence 1 touched at the IJrazils, from whence
I sent :. bark, which I bought there,with more peo-
ple, to the ishmd; and in it, besides other supplies,
I sent seven women, being such as 1 found proper
for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the Knglishmen, I promised them to send them
some women IVom Kngland, with a good car^o of ne-
cessaries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
i-. Iiii h 1 afterwards could not perform. The fellows
proved very honest und diligent, after they were mas-
tered, and "had their properties set apart for them.
1 sent them ako from the Brazils five cows, three of
them being btg uith calf, some sheep, and some hogs,
which, when i came again, were considerably iu»
creased. ¥
IJut aft these things, with an account how three
hundred Carihbces came and in\aded them, and ruin-
eil their plantations, :ind bow they fought aith that
whole number twice, and were m first defeated tmd
one of them killed . but at hist a storm destroying
their enemies' canaes, they famished or destroyed
umost a!i the rest, and renewed and recovered the pos-
session of their plantation, and still lived upou the
island.
All these things, with some very surprisinginci-
c'ents in some new adventures of my own, for teu
years more, I shall give a further account of in aaulh-
ir volume.
XKB or TOJ.. i.
'.
