THE LIFE §
AND š
SURPRISING ADVENTURES º
THE LIFE §
(9)
ROBIN SON C R US OE, (ÇN
0F F0 RR, .M.A. R.I.N.E.R. \? 2.
-- -o-
- Sº? ILLUSTRATED WITH NuMEROUS ENGRAVINGS FROM
THE LIFE §
WOLUME THE SECOND.
LONDON: -
- JOSEPH THOMAS, 1, FINCH LANE; - §§
THE LIFE §
ãº
y X.
- 1838.
º &D ={º - - ;Rºs
\
§




"Twere well with most if books that could engage
Their childhood pleased them at a riper age :
The man approving what had charm'd the boy
Would die at last in comfort, peace, and joy;
And not with curses on his art who stole
The gem of truth from his unguarded soul.
Cowper.
- -
PALMek & CLAYTON, 9, Crane-court, Fleet-street.
THE
FARTHER ADVENTURES
OF
RO BIN SO N C R US OE,
&c.
THAT homely proverb, that “What is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh,” was never more verified than in the
story of my Life. Any one would think that after thirty-five
years affliction and seven years of peace and enjoyment;
grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have
VOL. II. B

2 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
had experience of every state of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
say, after all this, any one would have thought that my native
propensity to rambling should be worn out, and I might, at
sixty-one years of age, have been inclined to stay at home,
and have done venturing life and fortune any more. Nay,
further, the common motive of adventure was taken away
in me; for I had no fortune to make : if I had gained ten
thousand pounds I had been no richer; for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to ; so that
I had nothing to do but sit still, and enjoy what I had got,
and see it increase daily upon my hands. Yet all these
things had no effect upon me, or at least not enough to
restrain the strong inclination I had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronical distemper; particularly
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the
colony I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed
of it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day; it
was uppermost in all my thoughts; and my fancy worked so
steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep.
In this kind of temper I had lived some years; I had no
enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diver-
sion but what had something or other of this in it; so that
my wife, who saw my mind was wholly bent upon it, told me
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
one night that she believed there was some powerful impulse
of Providence upon me, which had determined me to go thither
again; and that she found nothing hindered my going but
my being engaged to a wife and children. She told me that
it was true she could not think of parting with me; but as
she was assured that if she was dead it would be the first
thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was
determined above, she would not be the only obstruction;
for if I thought fit, and resolved to go—Here she found
me very intent upon her words, and that I looked very
earnestly at her; so that it a little disordered her, and she
stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out
what she was going to say. But I perceived her heart was
too full, and some tears stood in her eyes. “Speak out, my
dear,” said I; “are you willing I should go f" “No,” says
she, very affectionately, “I am far from willing : but if you
are resolved to go, rather than I will be the only hindrance, I
will go with you; for though I think it a most preposterous
thing for one of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it
must be,” said she again, weeping, “I won't leave you; for
if it be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, it will also make
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I
may not obstruct it.”
This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little
out of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was a
doing; that as to what my wife had said, of its being an
impulse from heaven, I had no notion of that; so after many
of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my imagina-
tion, reasoned myself out of it, “as I believe people may always
do in like cases if they will;” and, in a word, I conquered it;
and particularly, as the most effectual method, I resolved to
divert myself with other things. To this purpose I bought a
little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to remove
thither. I settled my family, and setting seriously to work,
became in half a year a country gentleman ; and I lived, as I
thought, the most agreeable life that nature was capable of
directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was
capable of being retreated to. Now I thought, indeed, that I
enjoyed that middle state of life which my father so earnestly
recommended to me, a kind of heavenly life, something like
what is described by the poet upon the subject of a country
life :
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unfore-
seen Providence unhinged me at once. This was the loss
of my wife.
-
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife,
to give a character of her particular virtues, and make my
court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was
the stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, and
did more to guide my rambling genius than a mother's tears,
a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own rea-
soning powers could do. I was happy in listening to her
tears, and in being moved by her entreaties, and to the last
degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone the world looked awkwardly round me :
I was as much alone, except as to the assistance of servants,
as I was in my island.
My sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a
pilot, that could only run before the wind; my thoughts run
all away again into the old affair, my head was quite turned
with the whimsies of foreign adventures. I was not long
resolving; for, indeed, the importunities of my nephew (who
was now about to take a trip to the East Indies, and offered to
land me upon my old island, in his way) joined in so effectually
with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me: I had an
irresistible desire to the voyage; and I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my
mind, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home. My nephew was ready to
sail about the beginning of January, 1694-5, and I, with my
man Friday, went on board in the Downs on the 8th, having a
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my
colony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved
to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I proposed to
place there as inhabitants, and leave them there, if they should
appear willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith,
and a very handy ingenious fellow, a cooper by trade, but also
a general mechanic; in a word, we called him our Jack of all
trades. With these I carried a tailor, who had offered him-
self, and proved a most handy fellow as could be desired, in
many other businesses; for necessity arms us for all employ-
ments. My cargo consisted of linen and stuffs, materials for
clothing, gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, beds, household stuff,
kitchen utensils, pots, kettles, &c., iron-work, nails, tools,
hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could think of. I
carried also a hundred muskets, and some pistols, shot of all
sizes, and two pieces of brass cannon; an hundred barrels of
powder, besides swords and cutlasses; so that we had so large
a magazine of all sorts of stores, that we might have built a
fort, and manned it against all sorts of enemies. I had not
such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet with.
It might be about the 20th of February in the evening,
when the mate came into the round-house, and told us he saw
a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he was telling
us of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard
another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck,
where for a while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes
we saw a great light at a distance. We concluded it must be
some ship on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the guns, we
concluded it could not be far off, we stood towards it. In
about half an hour we could discern that it was a great ship
FºE
on fire. I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, and
ordered that five guns should be fired, one after another, that
we might give notice that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their
boat; for though we could see the flame of the ship, yet they,
it being night, could see nothing of us. We lay by some

time upon this, waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to
our great terror, the ship blew up, and in a few minutes the
fire was out, and the ship sunk. This was terrible, for the
sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boats in the middle of the ocean : however, to direct them,
I caused lights to be hung out in all parts of the ship, and
kept firing guns all night long, to let them know there was
a ship not far off. In the morning we discovered the ship's
boats, by the help of our glasses; and found there were two
of them, thronged with people, and deep in the water: we
perceived that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to
make us see them. We immediately hung a waft out, as a
signal for them to come on board; and then made more sail,
standing directly to them. In half an hour we came up with
them, and took them all in, no less that sixty-four men,
women, and children. We found it was a French merchant
ship of three hundred tons, homeward-bound from Quebec,
in the river of Canada. The master gave us a long account
of the distress of his ship, and that when every one was ready
to despair, they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of
hearing a gun fire, and after that four more; this revived their
hearts, and gave them notice, as I designed it should, that
there was help at hand.
It is impossible for me to express the gestures, the strange
ecstacies, which these poor rescued people ran into, to ex-
press the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance.
Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and
a very few motions of the head and hands, make up the sum
of its variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a
thousand extravagances in it. There were some in tears,
some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in

the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and down-
right lunatic; some stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some dancing, some singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word;
others sick, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a few
crossing themselves and giving God thanks. The passion
was too strong for them at first, and they were not able to
master it; they were thrown into a kind of frenzy, and it was
but a very few who were composed and serious in their joy.
The French temper is allowed to be more volatile, more
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid,
than those of other nations. It is further observable, that
these extravagances did not show themselves in that different
manner in different persons only; but all the variety would
appear in a few moments in one person. A man that we saw
this minute dumb, and stupid and confounded, should the next
be dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next moment
be tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamp-
ing them under his feet like a madman: a few moments
after that, we should have him all in tears, then sick, then
swooning.
There were two priests among them, one old, and the
other young; and that which was strangest was, that the
oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on
board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone
dead, to all appearance; not the least sign of life could be
perceived in him: our surgeon immediately applied proper
remedies to recover him : in three minutes after the man
opened his eyes; and about a quarter of an hour after that
he spoke, grew better, and, in a little time, quite well. A
little while after this they came running into the cabin,
and told me the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he
had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his
mind, and this again put him into an ecstacy of joy; and the
man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in
it. The surgeon would not bleed him in that condition, but
gave him something to put him to sleep, which operated upon
him, and he waked next morning perfectly composed and
well. The younger priest behaved with great command, and
was really an example of a well-governed mind. At his first
coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face,
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance; in
which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he had been in a swóon: but he spake calmly;
thanked me; told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance; begged me to leave him a few moments, and
that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also. He
continued in that posture some time after I left him, and then
he came to me, and with a great deal of affection, with tears
in his eyes, thanked me that had, under God, given him
and so many miserable creatures their lives. I told him that
it was nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all
men, and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks
to God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the instru-
ments of his mercy to so many of his creatures. After this
he applied himself to his country-folks; laboured to compose
them; persuaded, entreated, reasoned with them, and did his
utmost to keep them within the exercise of reason. I commit
this to writing, as it may be useful to those into whose hands
it may fall in guiding themselves in the extravagances of their
passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men to such a
length beyond the reach of reason, what will not those of
anger, rage, and a provoked mind carry us to
We were something disordered by these extravagances for
the first day; but when our guests had been provided for as
well as our ship would allow, and had slept heartily, they
were another sort of people the next day. Nothing of civil
acknowledgments for the kindness shewn them was wanting :
the French are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The
captain and one of the priests came to me the next day, and,
desiring to speak with me and my nephew, the commander,
said they had saved some money, catched hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it they were ordered to make
an offer of it all to us.
- My nephew was for accepting their money at the first
word, but I overruled him in that part. I told the captain
that we had done nothing for them but what we believed
they would have done for us, if we had been in their case and
they in ours; and that it would be a most barbarous thing to
take that little from them which they had saved out of the
fire; and therefore I would not let the least thing be taken.
About a week after this we made the banks of Newfoundland,
where, to shorten my story, we put all our French people
on board a bark, which they hired at sea there to carry them
to France. When I say all the French, I should remember
that the young priest, hearing we were bound to the East
Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on
shore on the coast of Coromandel: I readily agreed to that,
for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason, as
will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen entered them-
selves in our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
when we met with another subject for our humanity, almost
as deplorable as that before. It was the 19th day of March,
when we espied a large vessel, and presently she fires a gun
as a signal of distress. The weather was pretty good, and we
soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, which had been blown out
of the road at Barbadoes by a terrible hurricane, while the
captain and chief mate were on shore; so that, besides the
terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to bring the ship home; had been nine weeks at sea,
and had met with another terrible.storm in which they lost
their masts. But worst of all, they were almost starved,
besides the fatigues they had undergone; their bread and beef
was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days. There was a youth and his mother,
and a maid-servant, passengers, who were in a more deplorable
condition than the rest; for the seamen, being reduced to such
an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor passengers. I had perhaps not known
this part, if my curiosity had not led me to go on board the
ship: indeed, the second mate, who had commanded, told
me that they had three passengers in the great cabin in a
deplorable condition. “Nay,” says he, “I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for two days; and
I was afraid to inquire after them, for I had nothing to
relieve them with.”
We immediately gave them what we could spare; but now
they were in a new danger, namely, eating too much, even of
that little we gave them. The mate had brought six men with
him in his boat; but these poor wretches, like skeletons, were so
weak, they could hardly sit to their oars; the mate himself was
half-starved, for he went share and share alike with his men in
every bit they ate. I cautioned him to eat sparingly; in the
meantime I forgot not the men: I ordered victuals to be given
them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it;
they had no command of themselves, and ate with such
greediness that they were in danger of their lives. The
sight of these people's distress was very moving. But all the
while I could not put out of my thought the story he had told
me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin. I ordered
the mate to go and see if they were alive, to comfort them, and
give them what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a pitcher with some prepared broth, which he did
not question would restore them gradually. I was not satis-
fied with this: but, having a great mind to see the scene of
misery, I took the captain of the ship, and went myself a little
after in their boat. I found the poor men on board in a
tumult to get the victuals out of the boiler before it was
ready; but my mate kept a good guard at the cook-room
door, and the man he placed there kept them off by force:
however, he caused some biscuits to be dipped in the pot, and
softened with the liquor of the meat, which they call brewis,
and gave every one one, to stay their stomachs: with this we
pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously at first,
and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough. But the misery of the
poor passengers in the cabin was far beyond the rest; for six
or seven days they had had no food at all, and for several
days before very little. The poor mother had spared all she
could get so affectionately for her son, that at last she sunk
under it; and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon
the floor with her back against the side, between two chairs,
and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive
and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her
mouth; she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could
not speak: yet she understood what he said, and made signs
to him, intimating that it was too late for her; but pointed to
her child, as if she would have said they should take care of
him. However, the mate endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth, and she got two or three spoonsful
down; but it was too late, and she died the same night. The
youth, who was preserved at the price of his affectionate mo-
ther's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin-bed,
with hardly any life left in him; he had a piece of an old
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, the mate got something down his throat, and
he began sensibly to revive. But the next care was the poor
maid. She lay all along upon the deck, hard by her mistress:
her limbs were distorted, one of her hands was clasped round
the frame of a chair, and she griped it so hard that we could
not easily make her let it go : her other arm lay over her
head, and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame
of the cabin-table; and yet she was alive too ! The poor
creature was not only starved with hunger, but, as the men
told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom
she loved most tenderly. We knew not what to do with this
poor girl: when our surgeon recovered her as to life, he had
her upon his hands as to her senses, for she was little less
than distracted for a considerable time after.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but
not to lie by for them; for we could carry no sail to keep
pace with a ship that had no masts: however, we did lie by
her for three or four days, and, having given the captain five
barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and what
other things we could spare, we left them, taking with us, at
their own earnest request, the youth and the maid. The
young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-
WOL. II. C
bred, and sensible youth, who had, it seems, lost his father
but a few months before. He begged me to take him out of
the ship, for, he said, the cruel fellows had murdered his
mother; and so they had, passively : for they might have
spared a small sustenance to the poor widow, that might have
preserved her life. But hunger knows no friend, no relation,
no justice; and therefore is remorseless, and capable of no
compassion. I yielded, and we took them on board with all
their goods. I could never learn that the ship came to Bris-
tol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so dis-
abled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of
opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she might
founder.
I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents on the rest
of our voyage; but, shortening my story, shall observe, that
I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of April,
1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque, but none
for my purpose. But at last, coasting from one island to
another, I came fair on the south side of my island, and
I presently knew the very countenance of the place: so I
brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little
creek where was my old habitation. As soon as I saw the
place, I called Friday, and asked him if he knew where he
was He looked about a little, and presently clapping his
hands, cried “O yes, Othere, O yes, Othere!” pointing to
our old habitation, and fell a-dancing and capering like a mad
fellow ; and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
“Well, Friday,” said I, “do you think we shall find any
body here, or no? And what do you think, shall we see your
father ?” The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while ;
but when I named his father, the poor affectionate creature
looked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his face
very plentifully. “What is the matter, Friday 7" says I;
“Are you troubled because you may see your father ?” “No,
no,” says he, shaking his head, “no see him more, no ever
more see again.” “Why so,” said I, “Friday How do you
know that?” “Ono, O no,” says Friday, “he long ago die;
long ago, he much old man.” “Well, well,” says I, “Friday,
you don't know : but shall we see any one else, then * The
fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he points just to
the hill above my old house; and though we lay half a league
off, he cries out “Me see me see yes, yes, me see much
man there, and there, and there !” I looked, but I could see
nobody; but the fellow was right, as I found upon enquiry
the next day. As soon as Friday had told me he saw people,
I caused the English ancient to be spread, and fired three
guns, to give them notice we were friends; and, a little while
after, we perceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek:
so I ordered a boat out, and hanging out a white flag, I went
on shore, taking with me the young friar, to whom I had told
the whole story of my living there, and who was on that
account extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides
sixteen men well armed; but we had no need of weapons.
The first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved. I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but
myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat : for the
affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, and, if
they had not let him go he would have jumped into the sea.
He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like
an arrow. It would have made any man shed tears, in spite
of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of
this poor fellow's joy when he came to his father; how he
embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in
his arms, set him down upon a tree, and laid down by him;
then stood and looked at him as any one would look at a pic-
ture; then stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up
again, and stared at him: one would have thought the fellow
bewitched. But it would have made a dog laugh to see how
the next day his passion run out another way: in the morning
he walked along the shore, to and again, with his father, seve-
ral hours, always leading him by the hand as if he had been
a lady; and every now and then he would come to the boat
to fetch something or other for him, either a lump of sugar,
a dram, a biscuit, or something or other that was good. In the
afternoon his frolics ran another way; for then he would set the
old man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make
a thousand antic postures and gestures; and all the while he
did this he would be talking to him, and telling him one story
or another of his travels, and of what had happened to him
abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial affection

was to be found in Christians to their parents in our parts of
the world, one would be tempted to say there would hardly
have been any need of the fifth commandment.
It would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies the
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard I saw was
he whose life I had saved: he came, carrying a flag of truce
also ; and he did not only not know me, but had no notion of
its being me till I spoke. “Señor,” said I, “do you not
know me?” At which he spoke not a word, but threw his
arms abroad, and saying something in Spanish that I did not
perfectly hear, came and embraced me, telling me he was
inexcusable not to know that face again, that he had once
seen as of an angel from Heaven sent to save his life. He
then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, so I
walked along with him; but I could no more find the place
again than if I had never been there: for they had planted so
many trees, so thick and close to one another, that the place
WaS inaccessible, except by such windings and blind ways as
they themselves only who made them could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications 2
He told me I would say there was need enough of it, when
they had given me an account how they had passed their time
since their arriving in the island. As to the three barbarians
(so he called them) that were left behind, he said he had
a long story to tell me: “Only that their number was so
small,” said he, “we had been all long ago in purgatory;” and
with that he crossed himself on the breast. “But, Sir,” says
he, “I hope you will not be displeased, when I shall tell you
how we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm
them, and make them our subjects who would not be content
with being moderately our masters, but would be our mur-
derers.” I answered, I was heartily afraid of it when I left
them there; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory
villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief. While I
was saying this, came eleven men more : in the dress they
were in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of.
Turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them know
who I was: upon which they all came up one by one, not as
if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like,
but really as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and
I a monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour was to the
last degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a
manly, majestic gravity, which very well became them; and,
in short, they had so much more manners than I, that I scarce
knew how to receive their civilities, much less how to return
them in kind. The history of their coming to, and conduct
in, the island after my going away is so very remarkable, that
I cannot but commit them with great delight to the reading
of those that come after me. In order to do this intelligibly,
I must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island.
And first it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away
Friday's father and the Spaniard in a large canoe, to fetch
over the Spaniard's companions, in order to save them from
the like calamity that he had been in. When I sent them
away, I had not the least room to hope for my own deliver-
ance; much less had I any foreknowledge of what afterwards
happened, of an English ship coming there to fetch me off;
and it could not but be a great surprise to them when they
came back, not only to find that I was gone, but to find three
strangers, possessed of all that I had left behind me, which
would otherwise have been their own. The first thing which
I inquired into was of his voyage back to his countrymen
with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told
me that nothing remarkable happened to them on the way,
they having very calm weather and a smooth sea; his coun-
trymen were overjoyed to see him, because they knew that he
was fallen into the hands of the savages; and their astonish-
ment was like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them
who he was, and the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's
court; but they immediately prepared to come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but
to borrow two large canoes, on pretence of going out a-fish-
ing. In these they came away the next morning. They were
in all three weeks absent, and in that time the occasion offered
for my escape, and I got off from the island, leaving three of
the most hardened, ungoverned villains behind me, to the poor
Spaniards' great grief, you may be sure. The only just thing
the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards came on shore,
they gave them provisions, as I had ordered, and they agreed
very well for some time; they gave them an equal admission
into the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably;
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about
the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they
came home, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the
others but have let them alone; which, however, they could
not find in their hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the
manger, they would not eat themselves, and would not let
others eat neither. But before I come to the particulars of
this part, I must supply a defect in my former relation. I
forgot to set down that, just as we were weighing anchor,
there happened a quarrel on board our ship, which was not
appeased till the captain, making two of the most refractory
fellows prisoners, laid them in irons. This, it seems, frighted
some other men in the ship; and some of them said that the
captain only gave them good words till they should come to
some English port, and then they should be all tried for their
lives. The mate got intelligence of this; upon which it was
desired that I, who still passed for a great man among them,
should go down and satisfy the men, if they behaved well, all
they had done should be pardoned. I went, and passing my
honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so
when I caused the two men in irons to be released. But this
mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night. Next
morning we found that the two men who had been in irons
had stolen a musket and some other weapons, and had taken
the ship's pinnace, and run away with her to their companions
in roguery on shore. These two men made their number
five : but the other three villains were so much wickeder than
these, that they turned their two new-comers out of doors,
and would have nothing to do with them.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, they would have
persuaded the three English brutes to have taken in their two
countrymen again, but they would not hear of it: so the two
poor fellows pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island. Here they built them two huts, and began to live
pretty well. They were going on in this thriving posture,
when the three unnatural rogues, in mere humour, came and
bullied them, and told them the island was theirs; that the
governor had given them possession of it; and they swore that
they should build no houses upon their ground, unless they
would pay them rent for them. The two men thought they
had jested at first, when one of the three, swearing and
raging, told them they should see they were not in jest; and
taking a firebrand, he claps it to the outside of their hut, and
very fairly set it on fire; and it would have been burnt down
in a few minutes, if one of the two had not thrust him away,
and trod the fire out. Seeing the danger they were both in,
they ran in, and immediately they came both out with their
muskets, and presenting them, bade them stand off. Finding
them so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they con-
sented to be gone.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser
part of their rogueries, such as treading down their corn,
shooting three kids and a goat, and, in a word, plaguing them
night and day, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three. Meantime these
ruffians had made up their minds still further to injure them;
and coming to their habitation, when they found the men
gone, Atkins, who was the forwardest man, called out “Ha!
Jack, here's the nest; but, curse them, the birds have flown.”
They mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of
their being abroad so soon, and suggested that the Spaniards
had given them notice of their evil intentions; and with that
they swore to one another that they would be revenged of the
Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody bargain,
they fell to work with the poor men's habitation: they pulled
down both their houses, and so limb from limb, that they left
not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood: they tore all their little household-stuff in
pieces, and threw every thing about in such a manner, that
the poor men afterwards found some of their things a mile off.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees
the poor men had planted, and an enclosure they had made to
secure their cattle; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
every thing.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out,
and had resolved to fight them wherever they had been,
though they were but two to three; so that, had they met,
there certainly would have been bloodshed among them; for
they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their
due. But Providence took more care to keep them asunder
than they themselves could do to meet : we shall see their
differing conduct presently. When the three came back, like
furious creatures, flushed with the work they had been about,
they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what they had
done, by way of bravado; and one of them stepping up to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving
it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him “And you,
Señor Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do
not mend your manners.” The Spaniard, who, though a quiet.
man, was as brave as man could be, looked steadily at him for
a while; and then, having no weapon, stepped gravely up to
him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an oxº
is felled with a pole-axe ; at which one of the rogues fired his
pistol at the Spaniard: he missed his body, however, but the bul-
lets went through his hair, and one of them touched the tip of his
ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that put him
into some heat; and now resolving to go through with his
work, he took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at
him, when the rest of the Spaniards came out, and calling to
him, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their .
arms from them. When they were thus disarmed, and found
they had made the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and, giving the Spa-
niards better words, would have had their arms again: but
they told them that while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threat-
ened them all to make them their servants, they must refuse
them. Being refused their arms, they went away, raging like
madmen, threatening what they would do; but the Spaniards,
despising their threats, told them to take care how they offered
any injury to their plantation or cattle: for, if they did, they
would shoot them, as they would ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them. As soon as they were gone, came back the
two men in rage enough also, though of another kind; for,
having been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished
and destroyed, they had provocation enough: they could
scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager
to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that
three men should thus bully nineteen.
However, an accident happened presently which endangered
the safety of them all; and they were obliged to lay by all pri-
vate resentments, and look to the preservation of their lives. It
happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call him,
he whose life I had saved, who was now leader of the rest,
found himself uneasy in the night, and could by no means
sleep: he was perfectly well in body, only found his thoughts
tumultuous: his mind ran upon men fighting, and killing one
another; and growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise. Being gotten up, he looked out: it was a clear starlight
night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down
again: but it was all one, he could not compose himself to
rest: his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and yet
he knew not for what. Having made some noise with rising
and walking about, another of them waked, and asked who it
was that was up 2 The governor told him how it had been
with him. “Say you so?” says the other Spaniard: “Such
things are not to be slighted; there is certainly some mischief
working near us;” and he asked him “Where are the
Englishmen?” “They are all in their huts,” says he, “safe
enough.” “Well,” says the Spaniard, “there is something
in it, I am persuaded from my own experience: I am satisfied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive intelligence
from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible
world; and this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if
we know how to make use of it. Come,” says he, “let us
go out and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in it to
justify the trouble, I’ll tell you a story to the purpose, that
shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it.” In a
word, they went out, and were going round through the grove
unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with
seeing a light as of fire, a very little way off, and hearing the
voices of a great number of men. We need not doubt but
that the governor, and the man with him, ran back and raised
their fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger
they were in; and they as readily took the alarm: but it was
impossible to persuade them to stay close within, for they
must all run out to see how things stood. The Spaniards were
in no small consternation at this sight; and as they found that
the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made no
doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon their
habitation; and they were in great perplexity also for fear of
their flock of goats: so they dispatched three men before it
was light, to drive the goats away to the great valley where
the cave was. After having mused a great while on the course
they should take, they resolved, while it was still dark, to send
Friday's father out as a spy, to learn what they came for, and
what they intended to do. The old man readily undertook it,
and stripping himself naked, as the savages were, away he
went. After he had been gone an hour, he brings word that
he had been among them undiscovered; that he found they
were of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had had a great battle in their own country; and that both
sides having several men taken in the fight, they were by
chance landed in the same island for the devouring their pri-
soners, and making merry; but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled all their mirth: that they were in
a great rage at one another, and were so near, that he believed
they would fight again as soon as daylight began to appear.
He had hardly made an end of telling the story, when they
could perceive, by the unusual noise, that the two little armies
were engaged in a bloody fight. Friday's father persuaded
our people to lie close : he told them their safety consisted
in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the
rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was
impossible to prevail upon the Englishmen, their curiosity was
so importunate that they must run out and see the battle:
however, they used some caution, but it seems the savages
did see them, as we shall find hereafter. The battle was very
fierce, and held two hours before they could guess which party
would be beaten; but then that party which was nearest our
people's habitation began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, lest any of those that fled should
run into the grove before their dwelling, and thereby discover
the place, and the pursuers should do the like in search for
them. Upon this they resolved, that they would stand armed
within the wall, and whoever came into the grove they should
sally out and kill them; they ordered also, that it should be
done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stock of the musket, but not by shooting them, for fear of
raising an alarm by the noise. As they expected it fell out;
three of the routed army fled for life, and ran directly into the
WOL. II. D
place for shelter. The scout kept to look abroad gave notice
of this, with this addition, that the conquerers had not pursued
them. Upon this the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity,
would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but sending
three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round
and come in behind them, surprise and take them prisoners;
which was done: the residue of the conquered people fled to
their canoes, and got off to sea; the victors retired, made no
pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves into a body
together, gave two great screaming shouts, which they sup-
posed were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended; and
the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their
island again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they
saw no savages in several years after. After they were all
gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and viewing the
field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty dead men
upon the spot.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while;
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequence
appeared terrible, even to them, if ever they should fall into
the hands of those creatures, who would not only kill them as
enemies, but kill them for food as we kill our cattle. For
a great while after they were very tractable, and went about
the common business of the whole society well enough: planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be naturalized to the country;
but some time after this, they fell all into such measures which
brought them into a great deal of trouble. They had taken
three prisoners, as I had observed; and these three being
stout young fellows, they taught them to work for them; and
as slaves they did well enough : but they did not take their
measures with them as I did by my man Friday, viz., to begin
with them upon the principle of having saved their lives, and
then instruct them in the rational principles of life, much less
of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage and
affectionate arguings; so they failed in this by it, that they
never had them to assist them as I had my man Friday, who
was as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones.
Being all now good friends, for common danger had effec-
tually reconciled them, they began to consider their general cir-
cumstances; and, seeing their safety consisted entirely in being
concealed, they set to work to cover and surround the place yet
more effectually than before : to this purpose, as I had planted
trees, or rather thrust in stakes which in time grew up to be
trees, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of ground, quite down to the side of the
creek, and even into the very ouze, not so much as leaving any
place to land, or any sign that there had been a landing there-
about. As they grew apace, so they planted them so close
together, that when they had been three or four years grown
there was no piercing with the eye into the plantation, and it
was next to impossible to penetrate it but with a little army to
cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close ; so that nothing but what had wings,
or witchcraft to assist it, could come at them. They lived two
years after this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits
from the savages.
And now the Spaniards had another broil with the English-
men; one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at
one of the three slaves, because the fellow had not done some-
thing which he bid him do, took up his hatchet, and fell upon
the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of
the Spaniards, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with
the hatchet, ran to him, and entreating him not to murder the
poor man, clapt in between him and the savage to prevent the
mischief. The brute, being enraged more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet ; the Spaniard avoided the blow,
and with a shovel he had in his hand knocked him down :
another of the Englishmen, running to help his comrade,
knocked the Spaniard down, and then two Spaniards came to
help their man, and a third Englishman fell upon them. This
fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming
of Robinson CRUSOE. 37
in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next ques-
tion was, what should be done with them? they had been so
often mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle
withal, that they knew not what course to take with them.
The governor told them, that if they had been of his own
country he would have hanged them; but, as it was to the
generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their
preservation and deliverance, he would use them with lenity,
and would leave them to the judgment of the other two
Englishmen. One of the two honest Englishmen stood up,
and said, “I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gal-

lows;” and with that he gives an account how Will Atkins,
one of the three, had proposed to have the five Englishmen
join together, and murder the Spaniards when they were in
their sleep. When the governor heard this, he calls to
Atkins: “How, Señor Atkins,” says he, “would you mur-
der us all? What have you to say to that * That hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true,
and they would do it still before they had done with them.
“Well, but, Señor Atkins,” said the Spaniard, “what have
we done to you that you will kill us? And what must we do
to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you
kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Señor
Atkins f" says the Spaniard, smiling. Señor Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard making a jest of it, that had he
not been held by three men, and withal had no weapons with
him, it was thought he would have attempted to have killed
the Spaniard in the middle of all the company. This hare-
brained carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was
to be done. The two Englishmen were of opinion, that they
should hang one of the three for an example to the rest. But
the governor still said, No; it was an Englishman had saved
their lives, and he would never consent to put an Englishman
to death though he had murdered half of them; nay, he said,
if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and had
time left to speak, it should be that they should pardon him.
After a long debate it was agreed, that they should be dis-
armed, turned out of the society, and left to live where they
would, and how they could. The governor, a man of great
humanity, musing upon the sentence, and turning to the two
honest Englishmen, said, “Hold, you must reflect, that it will
be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must, therefore, allow them provi-
sions.” So he caused to be added, that they should have corn
given them to last them eight months; seed to sow, to raise
some of their own; six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six
kids given them; and tools for their work in the fields: but
they should have none of these unless they would swear
solemnly that they would not hurt or injure any of the Spa-
niards or their fellow Englishmen. Thus they turned them
out to shift for themselves. As there was no remedy they
went, pretending to go and choose a place where they would
settle themselves. About four or five days after, they came
again for some victuals; and gave the governor an account
where they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves
out an habitation and plantation. About three quarters of a
year after this separation, a new frolic took these rogues,
which, together with the former villany they had committed,
brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near been
the ruin of the whole colony. Weary of the laborious life
they led, a whim took them that they would make a voy-
age to the continent from whence the savages came, and
would try if they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make them
do the laborious part of their work for them. The three
fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very
humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them; the
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was
this, that if the Spaniards would give them one of the canoes
they came over in, and arms and ammunition for their defence,
they would go over to the main, and seek their fortune. The
Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them; but yet very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were
running into, and bade them consider of it. The men replied
audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for
they could not work, and would not work; and if they were
murdered, there was an end of them, they had no wives or
children to cry after them; and, in short, declared that they
would go, whether they would give them arms or no. The
Spaniards told them with great kindness, that if they were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and they
would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and
each man a hatchet. They accepted the offer; and having
baked them bread enough to serve them a month, and given
them as much goat's flesh as they could eat while it was sweet,
and a basket full of dried grapes, and a young kid alive to
kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea,
where it was at least forty miles broad. The boat would have
very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was
rather too big for them to manage; but, as they had a fair
breeze and the tide with them, away they went merrily
enough, the Spaniards calling after them “Buén viáge:” and
no man ever thought of seeing them more. The Spaniards
were often saying to the two honest Englishmen, how quietly
and comfortably they lived now those three turbulent fellows
were gone; when, behold, after twenty-two days’ absence, one
of the Englishmen being abroad, sees three strange men
coming towards him, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders. Away runs he, as if he was bewitched, to the
governor, and tells him they were all undone, for there were
strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell who.
While they were talking, came the three Englishmen; and,
standing without the wood, hallooed to them : they presently
knew their voices; and now the admiration was turned upon
another question, viz. What made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in ; and inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they
gave them a full account of their voyage, viz. that they reached
the land in two days, but finding the people preparing with
bows and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore,
but sailed on till they came to a great opening, by which they
perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the
main, but an island: that entering that opening of the sea,
they saw another island on the right-hand north, and several
more west; and being resolved to land somewhere, they put
over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people very courteous and friendly,
and that they gave them several roots, and some dried fish,
and appeared very sociable.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as well as
they could by signs, what nations were this way, and that
way; and were told of several terrible people, that lived
almost every way, who used to eat men: but as for them-
selves, they said, they never ate men, except such as they
took in the wars, and then they made a great feast and ate
their prisoners. The Englishmen inquired when they had a
feast of that kind, and they told them about two moons ago,
pointing to the moon, and then to two fingers; and that
their great king had two hundred prisoners now, and they
were feeding them to make them fat for the next feast. The
Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners;
but the others mistaking them, thought they were desirous
to have some of them to carry away for their own eating.
So they signified to them that they would bring some for
them; and accordingly they brought down five women and
eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this; however, upon some debate,
they resolved to accept of them; and in return they gave the
savages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key,
a knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which they seemed
extremely pleased with ; and tying the poor creature's hands
behind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners into
the boat for our men. Having taken their leave they put off
with their boat, and came back towards the first island, where
they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many of them for their occasion. In their voyage they en-
deavoured to have some communication with their prisoners,
but it was impossible to make them understand anything;
nothing they could say or do for them but was looked upon
as going about to murder them : they unbound them, but the
poor creatures screamed at that, for they immediately con-
cluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they
gave them anything to eat, it was the same; if they looked at
one of them in particular, the party concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fittest to kill; nay, after they had
brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly, still
they expected every day to make a dinner or a supper for
their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told they had put them into one
of their huts, and were come to beg some victuals for them,
the Spaniards and the other two Englishmen resolved to go
down and see them, and Friday's father with them. When
they came into the hut, there they sat all bound, and all
stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty fellows, well
shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years
of age; and five women, whereof two might be from thirty
to forty, two more not above four or five-and-twenty, and the
fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen. The women were
well favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape and features,
only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white,
would have passed for handsome women even in London
itself, having pleasant countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were men of the best behaviour, of the most
calm, sedate tempers that ever I met with ; and, in parti-
cular, of the most modesty, as will presently appear. The
first thing they did was to cause Friday's father to go in and
see if he knew any of them, and then if he understood their
speech. The old man came in, looked seriously at them, but
knew none of them; neither could they understand a word he
said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to satisfy them that the men into
whose hands they had fallen were Christians; that they
abhorred eating of men, and that they might be sure they
would not be killed. The woman who was their interpreter
was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they were willing
to work for the men who had brought them away to save their
lives At which they all fell a dancing; and presently one
fell to taking up this, and another that, anything that lay
next, to carry on their shoulders, to imitate that they were
willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women among
them might occasion some strife, asked the three men how
they intended to use them, whether as servants or as wives
One of the Englishmen answered boldly that they would use
them as both. To which the governor said, “I am not going
to restrain you from it; but this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing disorders and quarrels among you, that you will all engage,
that if any of you take any of these women as a woman, or
wife, he shall take but one; and having taken one, none else
shall interfere: for though we cannot marry any of you, yet
it is but reasonable that, while you stay here, the woman
should be maintained by the man that takes her, and should
be his wife, and that none else shall have anything to do with
her.” All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to
it without any difficulty. Then the Englishmen asked the
Spaniards if they designed to take any of them But every
one of them answered, “No :” some said they had wives in
Spain; others did not like women that were not Christians;
and all together declared, that they would not touch one of
them: which was an instance of such virtue as I have not met
with in all my travels. On the other hand, the five English-
men took them every one a wife; and so they set up a new
form of living, But the wonder of this story was, how five
such refractory fellows should agree about these women, and
that two of them should not pitch upon the same woman; but
they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling, for they
set the five women by themselves in one of their huts, and
drew lots who should choose first. He that drew to choose
first, went by himself to the hut and fetched out her he chose ;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her
that was reckoned the homeliest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at
it: but the fellow considered better than any of them, and she
proved the best wife of the parcel. When the poor women
saw themselves fetched out one by one, the terrors of their
condition returned upon them again, and they firmly believed
that they were now going to be devoured: accordingly,
when the English sailor fetched out one of them, the rest
set up a most lamentable cry, and took their leave of her with
such agonies as would have grieved the hardest heart in the
world; nor was it possible to satisfy them that they were not
to be murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's father,
who let them know, that the five men who had fetched them
out one by one had chosen them for their wives. When they
had done this, and the fright the women were in was a little
over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
helped them; and in a few hours they had built them every
one a new hut for lodging apart. The three wicked ones
had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer;
and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as I
might say, three towns were begun to be planted.
But now I come to a scene different from all that had hap-
pened before, either to them or to me. Early one morning
there came on shore five or six canoes of savages, and there
is no room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of
feeding upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar
to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not
concern themselves about it; but having been made sensible
by experience, that their only business was to lie concealed,
they had nothing to do but to give notice to the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and not to show themselves. But
a disaster made it known that there were inhabitants there,
which was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole
colony. After the savages were gone, the Spaniards had the
curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been doing. To their great surprise, they found
three savages lying fast asleep upon the ground, either so
gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they would
not stir when the others went, or wandering into the woods,
they did not come back in time to be taken in. The Spaniards
were greatly surprised and at a loss what to do; the governor
was with them, and his advice was asked. He told me they
could not think of shedding innocent blood: for the poor
creatures had done them no wrong. After some consultation,
they resolved that they would lie still till these men might be
gone: but then the governor recollected that the savages had
no boat; and that if they were left to rove about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in
it, and so they should be undone that way. Upon this they
went back, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they
resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they
did so. They were set to work; and whether it was by
negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the fellows
could not mend themselves, I know not, but one of them ran
away, and taking into the woods, they could never hear of
him more. They had good reason to believe he got home
again in some other canoes of savages, who came on shore
three weeks afterwards; and this thought terrified them
extremely. -
About two months after this, six canoes, with about ten
men in each canoe, landed about a mile from the habitation
of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept. The two men had the happiness to discover them a
league off; and, having reason to believe that they were
betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves
which were left, and cause two of the three men whom they
brought with the women to lead them with their two wives,
and whatever they could carry away with them, to their retired
place in the woods, and there to bind the two fellows hand
and foot till they heard further. When the poor frighted
men had secured their wives and goods, they sent the other
slave away to the Spaniards to give them the alarm; and in
the mean time they retreated towards the place in the wood
where their wives were sent. They had not gone far but that,
WOL. II. E
from a rising ground, they could see their enemies come on
directly to their habitation, and in a moment more could see
all their huts and household stuff flaming up together. They
kept their station, till they found the savages spread them-
selves over the place, in search for prey, and in particular for
the people, of whom it now plainly appeared they had had
intelligence. The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking
themselves not secure, thought it proper to make another
retreat about half a mile farther. The next halt was at the
entrance into a very thick grown part of the woods.
They had not stood there long, but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they were coming
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three
more, and five more beyond them, all coming the same way.
The poor men were in great perplexity, whether they should
stand or fly; but after a short debate, they considered that
if the savages ranged the country, they might find out their
retreat in the woods, then all would be lost; so they resolved
to stand them there; and if there were too many to deal with,
then they would get up to the top of a tree, and defend them-
selves as long as their ammunition lasted. Having resolved
upon this, they next considered whether they should fire at
the first two, or take the middle party, by which the two and
the five that followed would be separated; and they resolved
to let the two first pass by, unless they should spy them in
the tree, and attack them. The two first savages confirmed
them in this resolution, by turning towards another part of
the wood; but the three, and the five after them, came directly
to the tree, as if they had known they were there. Seeing
them come towards them, they resolved to take them in a
line as they came; and as they resolved to fire one at a time,
the first shot might hit them all three; for which purpose,
the man who was to fire put four bullets into his piece, and
waited till they were within about thirty yards of the tree,
so that he could not miss. As they came on, they saw that
one of the three was the savage that had escaped from them,
and they resolved that he should not escape, though they
should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece,
that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to
have a second. But the first was too good a marksman to
miss his aim ; for as the savages kept near one another, he
fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed
outright; the second, the runaway Indian, was shot through
the body, and fell; and the third had a little scratch in the
shoulder, and being dreadfully frighted, though not much
hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a
hideous manner. The five that were behind, frighted with
the noise, stood still at first; however, all being silent again,
and not knowing what the matter was, they came on uncon-
cerned, till they came to the place where their companions lay;
and, not sensible that they were within reach of the same mis-
chief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, inquiring
of him how he came to be hurt; and who, it is rational to
believe, told them that a flash of fire first, and after that,
thunder from their gods, had killed those two, and wounded
him. This, I say, is rational ; for as they saw no man near
them, so they had never heard a gun in all their lives; neither
knew they anything of killing at a distance with fire and
bullets; if they had, one might reasonably believe they would
not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of their
fellows without some apprehension of their own.
Our two men, though it grieved them to be obliged to kill
so many poor creatures, yet, having them thus in their power,
they resolved to let fly among them, and they killed or wounded
four: the fifth, frighted to death, though not hurt, fell with
the rest. The belief that the savages were all killed made
our two men come boldly out from the tree before they had
charged their guns again, which was a wrong step, and they
were surprised when they found four of them alive: this
obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of their mus-
kets; and first they made sure of the runaway savage, that
had been the cause of all the mischief. Then the man that
was not hurt came and kneeled down to them with his hands
held up, and made piteous moans to them by gestures and
signs for his life. They signed to him to sit down at the foot
of a tree thereby; and tied his feet together, and his hands
behind him, and there they left him ; and then made after
the other two, fearing they should find the way to the place in
the woods where their wives, and the few goods they had left,
lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it was at
a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to see
them cross the contrary way from that which led to their
retreat; and being satisfied with that, they went back to the
tree where they had left their prisoner; but he was gone, and
the pieces of rope-yarn with which they had bound him lay at
the foot of the tree. They were now in as great a concern as
before; so they resolved to go to the place where their wives
were, to see if all was well there. When they came there,
they found every thing safe, only the women in a terrible
fright. While they were here, they had the comfort to have
seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance: the other
ten with their servants, and old Friday, were gone to defend
their bower. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three
savages who were their prisoners formerly. The prisoners
began now to be a burthen to them; and they were so afraid
of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them
all, for their own preservation: however, the governor would
not consent to it; but ordered that they should be sent out of
the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to guard them and give them food for their
sustenance. When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen
were so encouraged, that away they all went in quest of the
savages. And, first, they came to the tree where the men
lay that had been killed; from thence they advanced to the
first rising ground, but neither could they here see any of the
savages; they then resolved to go forward to their ruined
plantation; but coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw
plainly the savages embarking again, in order to be gone.
They seemed sorry that there was no way to give them a
parting blow; but were well satisfied to be rid of them.
About two days after this they had the satisfaction of seeing
three of the canoes come driving on shore, and at some dis-
tance two drowned men; by which they had reason to believe
that they had met with a storm at sea, which had overset
some of them, for it blew very hard the night after they went
off. However, enough of them escaped to inform the rest of
what had happened to them.
It was six months after this before they heard any more of
the savages; when on a sudden they were invaded with a for-
midable fleet of twenty-eight canoes, full of savages, armed
with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such
like engines of war. As they came on shore in the evening,
our men had that night to consider what to do; and knowing
that their being concealed was their safety before, they
resolved to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and leave as little appearance of inhabitants as
possible; and the next morning early they posted themselves
at the plantation, waiting for their coming. As they guessed,
so it happened; these new invaders came ranging along the
shore, directly towards the place, to the number of two hun-
dred and fifty. Our army was but small; but that which was
worse, they had not arms for all their number; the whole
account, it seems, stood thus:–first, as to men: seventeen
Spaniards; five Englishmen; Old Friday; three slaves, who
proved faithful; three other slaves, who lived with the Spa-
niards. To arm these they had sixteen muskets, five pistols,
three fowling-pieces, two swords, and three old halberts. To
their slaves they gave every one an halbert, and by his side a
hatchet. Two of the women would come into the fight, and
they had bows and arrows, and hatchets too. The governor
commanded the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a
dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring man, com-
manded under him.
The savages came forward like lions, and our men had no
advantage in their situation; only that Atkins, with six men,
was planted behind a thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard,
with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then fire into
the middle of them; and as soon as he had fired to make his
retreat, and come in behind the Spaniards, having a thicket of
trees also before them. When the savages came on, they ran
straggling about, out of all manner of order, and Atkins let
about fifty of them pass by ; then seeing the rest come in a
throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets apiece. How many they
killed they knew not; but the consternation was inexpressible
among them : they were frighted to the last degree to hear
such a dreadful noise, and find their men killed, but see
nobody that did it. When in the middle of their fright,
Atkins and his other three let fly again among the thickest of
them; and in a minute the first three, being loaded again,
gave them a third volley. Had Atkins and his men retired as
soon as they had fired, or had the rest been at hand to have
poured in their shot continually, the savages had been effec-
tually routed; for the terror that was among them came prin-
cipally from this: that they were killed by the gods with
thunder and lightning. But Atkins staying to load again dis-
covered the cheat; some of the savages, spying them, came
upon them behind; and though he fired at them also two or
three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of the
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spa-
niard, and one of the Indian slaves. Our men being thus hard
laid at, Atkins wounded, and two men killed, retreated to the
wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three vollies, retreated

also ; for the savages were so desperate, that though above
fifty were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet they
came on fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud.
When our men retreated, the governor having drawn his
little body together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
was wounded, would have had him charge them again: but the
Spaniard replied, “Señor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men even fight; let them alone till morning; all these
wounded men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and so
we shall have the fewer to engage.” The advice was good;
but Atkins replied merrily, “That's true, Señor, and so shall
I too; and that's the reason I would go on while I am warm.”
“Well, Señor Atkins,” says the Spaniard, “you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you .
cannot come on ; but I think it best to stay till morning.” So
they waited. But as it was a clear, moonlight night, and
they found the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, they resolved to fall upon them, especially if
they could come to give them but one volley before they were
discovered. This they had a fair opportunity to do; for one
of the Englishmen led them to where the thickest of them
lay, and eight fired in among them, and did dreadful execu-
tion; in half a minute eight others fired after them, pouring
in their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not able to
see who hurt them, or which way to fly. The Spaniards
charged again with the utmost expedition, and then dividing
themselves into three bodies, resolved to fall among them
altogether. Having formed their little army, they marched
out from among the trees, and came up to the teeth of the
enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could. The
savages were in the utmost confusion at hearing the noise of
our men shouting from three quarters together: they would
have fought if they had seen us; and as soon as we came near
enough to be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old
Friday was wounded, though not dangerously. But our men
gave them no time, but running up, fired among them three
ways, and then fell in with the butt ends of their muskets, their
swords, armed staves, and hatchets; and laid about them so
well, that they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying
to save their lives. Our men were tired with the execution ;
and killed, or mortally wounded, in the two fights, about one
hundred and eighty of them : the rest, being frighted out of
their wits, scoured through the woods and over the hills, with
all the speed that fear could help them to ; and as we did not
trouble ourselves to pursue them, they got altogether to the
sea-side where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at
an end yet, for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening
from the sea-ward, so that it was impossible for them to put
off. Our men got little rest that night; but having refreshed
themselves, they resolved to march to that part of the island
where the savages were fled, and see what posture they were
in. This necessarily led them over the place where the fight
had been, and where they found several of the poor creatures
not quite dead, and yet past recovering life—a sight disagree-
able enough to generous minds; for a truly great man, though
obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. At length they came in view of the
place where the miserable remains of the savages' army lay,
where there appeared about an hundred still. When our men
came within two musket-shot of them, the governor ordered
two muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them : this he
did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect,
whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily
beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might
manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as
the savages heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the
second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest con-
sternation imaginable; and as our men advanced, they all ran
screaming and howling away, and thus they ran up the hills
into the country. At first our men had much rather the wea-
ther had been calm, and they had all gone away to sea; but
they did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as not
to be resisted. Will Atkins, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept with them, proved the best counsellor in this case. His
advice was, to clap in between them and their boats, and
deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to
plague the island. They consulted long about this, and some
were against it; but he shewed them the necessity of it so
plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work
immediately with the boats, and getting some dry wood toge-
ther, they tried to set them on fire; but they were so wet
they would not burn. However, the fire so burned the upper
part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming. When the
Indians saw what they were about, some of them came running
out of the woods, and kneeled down and cried Oa, Oa, Wara-
mokoa, and some other words of their language, which none of
us understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have
their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never
come there again. But our men were now satisfied, that they
had no way to preserve themselves but effectually to prevent
any of these people from ever going home again; so they fell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them : at the sight of
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which
our people heard plain enough; after which they ran about
the island like distracted men, trod all the corn under foot,
tore up the vines and grapes, and did inestimable damage,
though to themselves not one farthing's worth of service.
The distress the savages were reduced to was great, but at the
same time our men were also brought to very hard circum-
stances by them : their provision was destroyed, and their
harvest spoiled; and the only refuge they had now was the
stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, some little
corn which grew there, and the plantation of the three
Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who were now
reduced to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him just under the temple, so that he never spoke
more; and it was very remarkable that this was the same
barbarous fellow who cut the poor slave with his hatchet, and
who afterwards intended to have murdered all the Spaniards.
The first thing they concluded when they saw what their
circumstances were, was, that they would daily hunt and kill
as many of them as they could, till they had reduced their
number. In order to this they so followed them, and so terri-
fied them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them
fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would
fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frighted they were, that
they kept out of sight, till at last our men following them, and
every day killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in
the woods so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery
for want of food; and many were found dead in the woods,
merely starved to death. When our men found this, it made
their hearts relent, and pity moved them; especially the
governor; and he proposed to take one of them, and bring
him, to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them,
and see if they might be brought to some conditions to save
their lives. Being weak, and half-starved, one of them was
at last made a prisoner: he was sullen at first, and would
neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly used, and
victuals given him, he at last came to himself. They brought
old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him
how kind they would be to them all; and he bade the fellow
go and talk with his countrymen, assuring them that if they
did not agree they should be destroyed. The poor wretches,
thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to about thirty-
seven, closed with the proposal, and begged to have food given
them; upon which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen,
well armed, with three slaves, and old Friday, marched to the
place where they were: the three slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes, and three live
goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill,
where they sat down, ate the provisions thankfully, and were
the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought
of: for except when they came to beg victuals and directions
they never came out of their bounds; and there they lived
when I came to the island, and I went to see them. After
this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity, till I came to
revisit them, which was above two years.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that hap-
pened to them to my return, at least that was worth notice.
The Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them,
and they frequently went among them, and taught them to
make abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-work;
particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards,
&c., as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at such work
when they were once put in the way of it. My coming was
a particular relief to these people, because we furnished them
with spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things of that kind
which they could want. With the help of these tools they
came at last to build up their huts very handsomely; so that
when I came to see the colonies, they looked, at a distance, as
if they lived all like bees in a hive. And as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious and sober fellow, he
had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was
never seen; and indeed this fellow shewed abundance of inge-
nuity in several things which he had no knowledge of: he
made himself a forge, with a pair of bellows to blow the fire;
he made himself charcoal for his work, and he formed out of
one of the iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon;
and in this manner he made many things, but especially hooks
staples and spikes, bolts and hinges. But among all these
improvements one thing was still wanting : viz. that, as for
religion, I don't know that there was anything of that kind
among them : they pretty often indeed put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method of
seamen—swearing by his name; but as they knew very little
of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of entering
into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk
anything to them concerning religion. The utmost of all the
improvement which I can say the wives had made from them
was, that they had taught them to speak English pretty well;
and the children they had, which were twenty in all, were
taught to speak English too. None of these were much
above six years old, for it was not quite seven since they had
fetched these five savage ladies over; but they had all been
pretty fruitful, for they all had children; and were all a good
sort of well-governed, laborious women, modest and decent,
helpful to one another, observant and subject to their masters
—I cannot call them husbands.
WOL. II. F
Having thus given an account of the colony in general,
and pretty much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say
something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the
family. Before I delivered to them the stores I had brought,
I asked them if they had entirely forgot the first animosities
that had been among them, and would shake hands with one
another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of in-
terests, so that there might be no more misunderstandings or
jealousies. Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and
goodhumour, said, they had met with afflictions enough to
make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all
friends: that for his part he was so far from designing any-
thing against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done
nothing to him but what his own mad humour made necessary;
and that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the
foolish and brutish things he had done to them: that he was very
desirous of living on terms of friendship with them; and
would do anything that lay in his power to convince them of
it; and as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years. The Spaniards said, they had
indeed disarmed and excluded Atkins and his two countrymen,
for their ill conduct; but that Will had behaved himself so
bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and had
shewed himself so concerned for the general interest, that they
had forgotten all that was past; and that they had testified
their satisfaction by committing the command to him, next to
the governor himself. And as they had now an entire con-
fidence in him and all his countrymen, as they had merited it
by all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued
and trusted, they most heartily embraced the occasion of
giving me this assurance, that they would never have any
interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine all together, and indeed we
made a splendid feast. After this feast, at which we were
very innocently merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, and
shewed them that there was sufficient for them all. I cannot
express what satisfaction sat upon the countenances of these
poor men when they saw the care I had taken of them, and
how well I had furnished them : they told me I was a father
to them; and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave
the place without my consent. Then I presented to them the
people I had brought with me, particularly the tailor, the
smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary
people; but above all, my general artificer. And the tailor,
to show his concern for them, went to work immediately; and,
which was still more, he taught the women not only how to
sew and stitch, but to make shirts for their husbands. As to
the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were;
but to let them see how nature made artificers at first, I carried
the carpenters to see Atkins's basket-house, and they owned
they never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before ;
and one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good while,
turning about to me, “I am sure,” says he, “that man has
no need of us; you need do nothing but give him tools.”
Then I brought them out my store of tools, and all sorts of
iron work, appointing that as often as any were worn out, or
wanted, they should be supplied out of the general stores
that I left behind. The magazine of powder and arms which

I brought them was such, even to profusion, that they could
not but rejoice: for now they could march with a musket
upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and were able to
fight a thousand savages, if they had but some little advan-
tages of situation.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother
was starved to death, and the maid also. She was a sober,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that
every one gave her a good word. After a while, seeing things
so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my
island, both of them came to me, and desired I would give
them leave to be entered among my family, as they called it.
I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set
up, surrounded with a basket work, palisadoed like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation. And now the other two English-
men removed their habitation to the same place; and never
was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, in
any part of the world. I believe that a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and, if they had not looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the trees
stood so thick and so close, and grew so fast-matted into
one another, that nothing but cutting them down first could
discover the place, except the only two narrow entrances
where they went in and out could be found, which was not
very easy.
And now, as I am about to speak of marrying, it brings me
naturally to say something of the French ecclesiastic whom I
took up at sea. It may give offence to some hereafter if I
leave anything extraordinary upon record of a man whom
I must represent in terms very much to his disadvantage in
the account of Protestants: as, first, that he was a Papist ;
secondly, a Popish priest; and thirdly, a French Popish priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due character; and
I must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious
person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and ex-
emplary in almost every thing he did. He told me that he
would do all that became him in his office as a priest, as well
as a private Christian; and though perhaps we would not join
with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might
pray for us, which he would do upon all occasions. He came
to me one morning, and told me, with a very grave counte-
nance, that he desired an opportunity of some discourse with
me, which he hoped would not be displeasing to me, because
he thought it might in some measure correspond with my
general design, which was the prosperity of my new colony.
I told him I was going to the Englishmen's plantation, and
asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the
way. He told me he would more willingly wait on me thither,
because there, partly, the thing was acted which he desired to
speak to me about. So we walked on, and I pressed him to
be free and plain with me in what he had to say. “Why,
then, Sir,” says he, “you have here four Englishmen, who
have fetched women from among the savages, and have taken
them as their wives, and have had many children by them all,
and yet are not married to them, as the laws of God and man
require. To this, Sir, I know you will object, that there was
no priest of any kind to perform the ceremony. Now,” says
he, “these men may, when they please, abandon these women,
disown their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women and marry them while these are living.” And here he
added, with some warmth, “How, Sir, shall a blessing succeed
your endeavours in this place, however good in themselves,
while these men, who are your subjects, are allowed by you to
live in open adultery "
I confess I was struck at the thing itself; for it was certainly
true, that though they had no clergyman on the spot, yet a
formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses, and
confirmed by any token which they had all agreed to be bound
by, engaging the men to own these women for their wives
upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their chil-
dren, and the women to the same with their husbands, had
been an effectual marriage in the sight of God, and it was a
great neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest by
telling him that all that part was done when I was not here.
“Sir,” says he, “asking your pardon for such freedom, you
are right in this; that it being done in your absence, you
could not be charged with that part of the crime; but, I
beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not therefore
under an obligation to do your utmost now to put an end to
it.” I was so dull still that I did not take him right, but I
imagined that he meant I should part them; and I said I could
not do that by any means, for it would put the whole island in
confusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far mis-
take him. “No, Sir,” says he, “I do not mean that you
should separate them, but legally and effectually marry them
now, by a written contract, signed by both man and woman,
and by all the witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe
would decree to be valid.” I was amazed to see so much
sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his dis-
course as to his own party or church, and such true warmth
for the preserving people that he had no knowledge of or
relation to. I then pressed him to tell me of any other com-
plaint he had to make, acknowledging I was his debtor for the
first. He told me he would use the same freedom and plain-
ness in the second; and this was, that notwithstanding these
English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived with
these women for almost seven years, had taught them to speak
English, and even to read it, and that they were, as he per-
ceived, women of tolerable understanding and capable of in-
struction, yet they had not to this hour taught them anything
of the Christian religion; no, not so much as to know that
there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner God was to
be served. This was an unaccountable neglect, and what God
would certainly call them to account for; and perhaps at last
take the work out of their hands. He spoke this very affec-
tionately and warmly. “I am persuaded,” says he, “had
those men lived in the savage country whence their wives
came, the savages would have taken more pains to have
brought them to be idolators, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, have taken with them to
teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir,” said
he, “though I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine,
yet we should be glad to see the devil's servants, and the
subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general principles
of the Christian religion; that they might at least hear of
God, and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future
state, things which we all believe: they had at least been so
much nearer coming into the bosom of the true church, than
they are now in the public profession of idolatry and devil
worship.” I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms,
and embraced him with an excess of passion. “How far,”
said I to him, “have I been from understanding the most
essential part of a Christian, viz. to love the interest of the
Christian church, and the good of other men's souls ' I scarce
have known what belongs to being a Christian. But what
can be done now * said I; “you see I am going away.”
“Will you give me leave,” said he, “to talk with these poor
men about it?” Upon this I said, “I shall not only give you
leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it.”
I now pressed him for any other article in which we were
to blame. “Why, really,” says he, “it is of the same nature:
it is about your poor savages yonder, who are, I may say, your
conquered subjects. It is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to
be received among all Christians, of what church soever, that
Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible
means. It is on this principle that our church sends missiona-
ries into Persia, India, and China. Now, Sir, you have such
an opportunity here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor
savages brought over from idolatry to the knowledge of God,
their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder how you can pass
such an occasion of doing good, which is really worth the
expense of a man's whole life.” I was now struck dumb
indeed, and had not one word to say. He looked earnestly at
me; seeing me in some disorder, “Sir,” said he, “I shall be
very sorry, if what I have said gives you any offence.” “No,
no,” said I, “I am offended with nobody but myself; but I
am perfectly confounded, not only to think that I should never
take any notice of this before, but with reflecting what notice
I am able to take of it now.” He then laid it home upon my
conscience, whether the blessing of saving seven-and-thirty
souls was not worth my venturing all I had in the world for 2
I returned upon him thus: “Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing
indeed to be an instrument in God's hand to convert seven-
and-thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as it
seems so naturally to fall into the way of your profession, how
is it that you do not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than
press me to it?” Upon this he faced about, just before me,
as we walked along, and putting me to a full stop, made me a
very low bow: “I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir,”
says he, “for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work;
and if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me
to undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy
reward for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken,
disappointed voyage as I have met with, that I have dropped
at last into so glorious a work.” I discovered a kind of rap-
ture in his face while he spoke this to me: his eyes sparkled
like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came and went as if
he had been falling into fits; in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a consi-
derable while before I could tell what to say to him; but after
I had considered awhile, I asked him if he was in earnest, and
that he would venture to be locked up in an unplanted island
for life, and at last might not know whether he should be able
to do them any good or not He turned short upon me, and
asked me what I called a venture? “Pray, Sir,” said he,
“do you think, if I can convert these seven-and-thirty men to
the faith of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should
never be fetched off the island again * Yes, Sir,” says he,
“I would give Christ and the Blessed Virgin thanks all my
days, if I could be made the happy instrument of saving the
souls of these poor men, though I was never to see my native
country any more. But since you will honour me,” says he,
“with putting me unto this work, I have one humble petition
to you besides.” “What is that?” said I. “Why, that you
will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter, and
to assist me; for without some help I cannot speak to them, or
they to me.” I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday,
because I could not think of parting with him, and that for
many reasons. He had been the companion of my travels;”
he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the
last degree; and I had resolved to do something considerable
for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would. How-
ever, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait: I told him
I could not part with Friday on any account whatever; but, to
remove this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learnt
Spanish, which he also understood, and should serve him for
an interpreter: so he was satisfied.
As soon as this conversation was ended, I sent for the
Englishmen, and asked them with what conscience they could
take these women, and have so many children by them, and
not be married lawfully to them They all gave me the
answer that I expected, that there was nobody to marry them;
and they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally married as if they had been married by a parson. I
told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of
God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as their
wives; but that I could not think it was convenient they
should continue together as man and wife; for that it was
both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could
not think would bless them if they went on thus, They told
me, especially Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest,
that they loved their wives as well as if they had been born
in their own native country; and Will Atkins, for his own
particular, added, if any man would offer to carry him to
England, and make him captain of the best man of war in the
navy, he would not go if he might not carry his wife and
children with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship,
he would be married to her now with all his heart. This was
just as I would have it. So to try him further, I told him I
had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere I would have
him married the next morning, and bade him consider of it,
and talk with the rest. Before I went from their quarter they
all came to me, and told me they were very willing to give me
the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married as soon as
I pleased. So I appointed them to meet me the next morning,
and that in the mean time they should let their wives know
the meaning of the marriage law.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning
of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as indeed
they had reason to be ; so they failed not to attend at my
apartment the next morning, where I brought out my
clergyman. He could not speak English, so I had to be
interpreter between them. He told them he doubted that
they had but little knowledge of God or of his ways, and
therefore he could not expect that they had said much to their
wives on that head yet; but that unless they would promise
him to use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct
them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and
to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not
marry them; for he would have no hand in joining Christians
with savages. They heard all this very attentively; and they
told me it was very true what the gentleman had said, that
they were but very indifferent Christians themselves, and that
they had never talked to their wives about religion.
“That’s true, Sir,” said Atkins; “but with what face can I
say anything to my wife, when she will tell me immediately it
cannot be true?” “Not true?” said I; “What do you mean
by that?” “Why, Sir,” said he, “she will tell me it cannot
be true: that this God, I shall tell her of, can be just, or can
punish or reward, since I am not punished and sent to the
devil, that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I
have been, even to her, and to everybody else; and that I
should be suffered to live, that have been always acting so
contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to what I ought
to have done.” “Why truly, Atkins,” said I, “I am afraid
thou speakest too much truth;” and with that I let the clergy-
man know what Atkins had said. “O !” said the priest, “tell
him there is one thing will make him the best minister in the
world to his wife, and that is repentance; for none teach
repentance like true penitents.” I repeated this to Atkins,
who looked very serious, and, we could perceive, was affected
with it: when hardly suffering me to make an end—“I know
all this, Master,” says he, “ and a great deal more; but I
han’t the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and
my own conscience know, and my wife will be an undeniable
evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard
of God; and to talk of my repenting, alas!” and with that he
fetched a deep sigh, and I could see that tears stood in his
eyes, “’tis past all that with me.” “Past it, Atkins P’’ said
I; “What dost thou mean by that?” “I know well enough
what I mean, Sir,” says he ; “I mean 'tis too late; and that
is too true.” I told my clergyman what he said. The poor
zealous priest, I must call him so—I say, this zealous, affec-
tionate man could not refrain from tears also ; but recovering
himself, he said to me, “Ask him but one question: Is he
easy that it is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were
not so * I put the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered
with a great deal of passion, “How could any man be easy in
a condition that certainly must end in eternal destruction
That he was far from being easy; but that, on the contrary,
he believed it would one time or other ruin him.” “What
do you mean by that?” said I. “Why,” he said, “he believed
he should, one time or other, cut his own throat to put an end
to the terror of it.” The clergyman shook his head, with a
great concern in his face, when I told him all this; and said,
“If that be his case, assure him it is not too late—it is never
too late for men to ask mercy; and we that are Christ's ser-
vants are commanded to preach mercy at all times to all those
that sincerely repent : so that 'tis never too late to repent.”
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness;
but it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for
he said he would go and have some talk with his wife: so he
went out awhile, and we talked to the rest; and all of them
seriously promised that they would talk with their wives about
it, and do their endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
The clergyman smiled, but said nothing a good while; at last
shaking his head, “We that are Christ's servants,” says he,
“can go no farther than to exhort and instruct; but believe
’ said he, “whatever you may have known of the
life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only
sincere convert among them. I take that man to be a true
penitent; he is apparently struck with the sense of his past
life; and if that poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriously
of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it he talks himself into
a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent; and who knows
what may follow "
me, Sir,’
Upon this discourse, and their promising to endeavour to
persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the
other three couple; but Will Atkins and his wife were not
WOL. II. G
yet come in. After waiting awhile, he was curious to know
where Atkins was gone; and turning to me, says, “Let us
walk out of your labyrinth here and look; I dare say we shall
find this poor man, somewhere or other, talking seriously to
his wife, and teaching her already something of religion.” I
began to be of the same mind: so we went out together; and
coming to the edge of the wood I saw Atkins, and his tawny
wife, sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager in dis-
course. I stopped short till my clergyman came up to me, and
then having showed him where they were, we stood and looked
very steadily at them a good while. We observed him very
earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every quarter
of the heavens; then down to the earth, then out to the sea,
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees.
“Now,” says my clergyman, “you see my words are made
good; the man preaches to her; mark him Now he is telling
her that our God has made him, and her, and the heavens,
the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c.” “I believe he
is,” said I. Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start up
upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we supposed he said something, but we could not
hear him; it was too far for that: he did not continue kneel-
ing half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife,
and talks to her again. We perceived, then, the woman very
attentive, but whether she said anything or no we could not
tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see
the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I
could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great affliction to
us both that we were not near enough to hear anything that
passed between them. Well, however, we could come no
nearer for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an
end of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough
to us without the help of voice. He sat down again, as I
have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to her,
and two or three times we could see him embrace her most
passionately: another time we saw him take out his hand-
kerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a
kind of transport very unusual; and after several of these
things, we saw him on a sudden jump up, and lend her his
hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by the
hand a step or two, they both kneeled down together, and
continued so about two minutes. My friend could bear it no
longer, but cries out aloud, “St. Paul, St. Paul, behold he
prayeth !” I was afraid Atkins would hear him; therefore I
entreated him to withhold himself awhile, that we might see
an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the
most affecting, and yet the most agreeable that ever I saw in
my life. Well, he strove with himself, and contained himself
for awhile, but was in such raptures of joy to think that the
poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself: he wept several times: then
throwing up his hands, and crossing his breast, said over
several things ejaculatory, and by way of giving God thanks
for so miraculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours:
some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear; others
audibly; some in Latin, some in French: then two or three
times the tears of joy would interrupt him, that he could not
speak at all. But I begged that he would compose himself,
and let us more narrowly and fully observe what was before
us, which he did for a time; and the scene was not ended there
yet: for after the poor man and his wife were risen again
from their knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly
to her; and we observed by her motions that she was greatly
affected with what he said, by her frequent lifting up he
hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other posture.
as usually express the greatest seriousness and attention
This continued about a quarter of an hour, and then they
walked away too, so that we could see no more of them i
that situation. I took this interval to talk with my clergy.
man; and first I told him I was glad to see the particulars wi
had both been witnesses to; and though I was hard enougl
of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was al
very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however
ignorant they might both be; and I hoped such a beginning
would have yet a more happy end: “And who knows,” said
I, “but these two may in time, by instruction and example,
work upon some of the others ?” “Some of them * said he,
turning quick upon me, “ay, upon all of them : depend upon
it, if those two savages, for he has been but little better as
you relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never
leave till they work upon all the rest: for true religion is
naturally communicative, and he that is once made a Christian
will never leave a Pagan behind him if he can help it.”
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly
pious Papist; and taking him by the lºw “My friend,”
said I, “I wish all the clergy of the Roman church were
blessed with such moderation, and an equal share of your
charity.” Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our
business there was over: so we went back our own way; and
when we came back we found them waiting to be called in.
Observing this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover
to him that we had seen him under the bush, or no; and it
was his opinion we should not, but that we should talk to
him first, and hear what he would say to us.
So we called Atkins in, alone, and I asked him what educa-
tion he had had and who was his father; and learned, to
my great surprise, that his father was a clergyman, who
would have taught him well, had he not despised instruction
and correction. He then entered into his history, and made
a repetition of his conversation with his wife upon God and
religion; and described to us, particularly, the interesting
scene we had witnessed, which, he informed us, ended in his
inducing her willingly to kneel down by him and pray to God
to instruct her in the knowledge of himself by his Spirit.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both,
but particularly to the young clergyman: he was indeed
wonderfully surprised with it; and he turned to me and said,
that he believed there must be more to do with this woman
than to marry her: that she ought to be baptized. I agreed
with him in that part readily, and was for going about it pre-
sently. “No, no; hold, Sir,” said he “though I would
have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe, that
though her husband has given her just ideas of the being of a
God, yet I desire to know if he has said anything to her of
Jesus Christ; of the nature of faith in him, and redemption
by him; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judg-
ment, and a future state.” I called Will Atkins again, and
asked him; but the poor fellow fell immediately into tears,
and told us he had said something to her of all those things,
but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproached him with his horrid, ungodly life,
that he trembled at the apprehension that her knowledge of
him should lessen the attention she should give to those
things, and make her rather contemn religion than receive it.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
between my religious priest and the woman, sure such a
sermon was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter
ages of the world ! In a word, he brought the poor woman
to embrace the knowledge of Christ, not with wonder and
astonishment only, but with joy and faith, with an affec-
tion, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to
be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at her own
request she was baptized. As soon as this was over he
married them ; and this done he turned to Will Atkins, and
in a very affectionate manner exhorted him not only to per-
severe in that good disposition he was in, but to support the
convictions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his
life. And then recommending them, in a few words, to God's
goodness, he gave them the benediction, I repeating every
thing in English, and thus ended the ceremony. I think it
was the most pleasant, agreeable day that ever I passed in
my whole life! But my clergyman had not done yet: his
thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of the thirty-
seven savages, and fain he would have stayed upon the island
to have undertaken it; but I convinced him, first, that his
undertaking was impracticable in itself; and secondly, that,
perhaps, I would put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to his satisfaction. -
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the
young man whom I had taken out of the famished ship's
company came to me, and told me that I had caused the
Englishmen to be married to the savages whom they called
wives; that he had a match too, which he desired might
be finished before I went, between two Christians, which he
hoped would not be disagreeable to me. I was impatient to
know who was the person to be married; upon which he told
me it was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan. I was
agreeably surprised; so we married them the same day; and,
as I was father and gave her away, so I gave her and her
husband a handsome large space of ground for their planta-
tion. The sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins,
who was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly
reformed, exceeding pious and religious.
It now came into my thoughts that the work of converting
the savages might be set on foot in my clergyman’s absence to
his satisfaction; and I told him that now I thought it was put in
a fair way, for the savages being thus divided among the Chris-
tians, if they would but every one of them do their part with
those which came under their hands, I hoped it might have a
good effect. I told him I would leave it in charge with the
Spaniards and the Englishmen never to make any distinction
of Papist or Protestant in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but teach the general knowledge of the true God,
and of their Saviour Jesus Christ; and they promised me
that they would never have any differences one with another
about religion.
I then made a visit to Will Atkins's house, and found the
young woman I have mentioned, and Atkins's wife, were
become intimates, and that this prudent, religious young
woman had perfected the work he had begun; and though it
was not above four days after what I have related, yet the
new-baptized savage woman was made such a Christian as I
have seldom heard of any like her, in all my observation in
the world. It came next into my mind that, among all the
needful things I had to leave with them, I had not left them a
Bible. I took one of the Bibles in my pocket: and when I
came to Atkins's tent, or house, and found the young woman
and his baptized wife had been discoursing of religion toge-
ther, for he told it me with a great deal of joy, I asked if they
were together now And he said yes; so we went into the
house, and found them together, very earnest in discourse:
“O, Sir,” says Atkins, “when God has aliens to bring home,
he never wants a messenger! My wife has got a new
instructor—I knew I was unworthy—that young woman has
been sent hither from Heaven—she is enough to convert a
whole island of savages.” The young woman blushed, and
rose to go away, but I desired her to sit still: I told her she
had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped God would
bless her in it. We talked a little; and then I put my hand
in my pocket, and pulled out my Bible. “Here,” said I
to Atkins, “I have brought you an assistant, that perhaps
you had not before.” The man was so confounded, that he
was not able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself,
he takes it with both hands, and turning to his wife, “Here,
my dear,” says he, “did I not tell you our God could hear
what we said Here is the book I prayed for when you and I
kneeled under the bush ; now God has sent it.” When he had
said this, the man fell in such transports that, between the
joy of having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran
down his face like a child that was crying. The surprise of
joy upon poor Will is really not to be expressed; and there
we may be sure there was no delusion. Sure, no man was
ever more thankful in the world for anything of its kind than
he was for this Bible; and though he had been a most profi-
gate creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and
wicked to a degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all
for the well instructing children, that parents should still
teach and instruct, and never despair of success, let the chil-
dren be ever so obstinate, or insensible of instruction: for if
ever God in his providence touches the consciences of such,
the force of their education returns upon them, and the early
instruction of parents is not lost, though it may have been
many years laid asleep. Thus it was with this poor man.
I have now done with the island. I left them all in good
circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on
board my ship again on the fifth day of May, having been five-

and-twenty days among them; and, as they were all resolved
to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised
to send some further relief from the Brazils, if I could find an
opportunity. The next day, giving them a salute of five guns
at parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in
the Brazils, in about twenty-two days—meeting nothing
remarkable in our passage but this, that the third day, towards
evening, the weather calm, we saw the sea covered with some-
thing very black, not being able to discover what it was ; till
our chief mate, looking at it with a perspective, cried out
92 LIFE AND ADVENTURES
an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or
some such word: “Nay, Sir,” says he, “don’t be angry, for
it is an army, and a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes, and they are coming towards us too apace, and
full of men l’” I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so
was my nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible
stories of them in the island, that he could not tell what to
think of it, but said we should all be devoured. I must con-
fess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong
towards the shore, I liked it the worse: however, I bade him
not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon as we
came so near as to know that we must engage them. They
came on apace towards us; so I gave orders to come to an
anchor, and furl all sails. As for the savages, I told them
they had nothing to fear from them but fire; and therefore
they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by
the head, and the other by the stern, and man them well, and
wait the issue: this I did, that the men in the boats might be
ready, with buckets, to put out any fire these savages might
endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came up with us. My mate was much mistaken in his
calculation of their number, the most we could make of them,
when they came up, being about 126 canoes; but some had
sixteen or seventeen men in them, some more, and the least
six or seven. When they came nearer to us, they seemed to
be struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which
they had never seen before; nor could they, as we afterwards
understood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up,
however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row
round us; but we called to our men in the boats not to let
them come too near them. This very order brought us to an
engagement with them, without designing it; for six of their
large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men beck-
oned to them to keep back; which they understood very
well, and went back : but at their retreat about five hundred
arrows came on board us from those boats; and one of our
men was very much wounded. However, I called to them
not to fire by any means: but we handed down some deal
boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of a fence, like waist-boards, to cover them from the
arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. About
half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern of
us, and pretty near, so near that we could easily discern what
they were, though we could not tell their design. I easily
found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with ; and in a little
time more they came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near that they
could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered all my men to
keep close, and make all our guns ready; but being so near as
to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck,
and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what they
meant, which accordingly he did: whether they understood
him or not, that I know not; but immediately Friday cried
out, unhappily for him, poor fellow ! they let fly about three
hundred of their arrows; and, to my inexpressible grief, killed
poor Friday, no other man being in their sight.
I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the com-
panion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with
great, and gave them such a broadside as they never had in
their lives before. They were not above half a cable's length
off when we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well, that
three or four of their canoes were overset by one shot only.
As they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved
and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I should have
felt not only justified before God and man, but should have

been glad, if I could, to have overset every canoe there, and
drowned every one of them. I can neither tell how many we
killed, nor how many we wounded, at this broadside; but
sure such a fright and hurry never was seen among such a
multitude . There were fourteen of their canoes split, and
overset, in all, and the men all set a-swimming; the rest,
frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were spoiled
with our shot: so I suppose that they were many of them
lost; and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his
life, above an hour after they were all gone. They fled so
fast, that in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see
above three or four straggling canoes, nor did we ever see
the rest any more. We had a prisoner indeed, but the crea-
ture was so sullen, that he would neither eat nor speak, and
we all fancied he would starve himself to death; but I took a
way to cure him: for I made them take him, and turn him into
the long-boat, and make him believe they would toss him into
the sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if he
would not speak: nor would that do, but they really did throw
him into the sea, and come away from him; and then he
followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them in
his tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said.
However, at last, they took him in again, and then he began
to be more tractable. We were now under sail again; but I
was the most disconsolate creature alive, for want of my man
Friday. It was a long while before we could make our
prisoner understand any thing; but in time our men taught
him some English, and he began to be tractable: afterwards
we inquired what country he came from, but could make
nothing of what he said; for his speech was so odd, all
gutturals, and spoken in the throat, in such a hollow and odd
manner, that we could never form a word from him ; and we
were all of opinion that they might speak that language as
well if they were gagged, as otherwise; nor could we perceive
that they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or
palate but formed their words just as a hunting-horn forms
a tune, with an open throat. It is to be observed that all
those natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn English,
always add two e's at the end of the words where we use one,
and place the accent upon the last of them : as makee, takee,
and the like; and we could not break them of it; nay, I could
hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did. And
now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him. Poor honest Friday! We buried him with all
the decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a
coffin, and throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to
fire eleven guns for him. And so ended the life of the most
VOL. II. H
grateful, faithful, honest, and affectionate servant that ever
man had.
In about twelve days’ time we made land in the latitude of
five degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost land
of all that part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of
the shore four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and
in three days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
and evil fate. Never ship came to this part that had less
business than I had; and yet it was with great difficulty that
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence on shore.
Not my partner himself, who was alive, and made a great
figure among them, nor my two merchant trustees, nor the
fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain
me that favour. They were so strict with us, as to landing
any goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on
shore three bales of English broad-cloths, stuffs, and some
linen, which I had brought for a present to my partner. He
was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though, like me, he
came from little at first; and I got him to set up a sloop
which I had brought with me from England for the use of my
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended them.
Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sloop in a few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of
her such instructions as he could not miss the place : nor did
he miss it, as I had an account from my partner afterwards.
I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and
one of our seamen offered to go with the sloop, and settle
there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a
sufficient quantity of land for a plantation. I encouraged the
fellow by granting all he desired; and I gave him the savage
which we had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave.
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the church :
“I know not what the matter is with him,” says he, “but, on
my conscience, I think he is a heretic in his heart; and he has
been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition.”
He would be glad to make his escape, with his wife and two
daughters, and would I let them go to my island, and give
them a small stock to begin with ? for the officers of the
Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate, and he had
nothing left but a little household stuff, and two slaves;
“And,” adds he, “though I hate his principles, yet I would
not have him fall into their hands, for he would assuredly be
burnt alive if he does.” I granted this presently, and joined
my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man, and
his wife and daughters, and having put all their goods in the
sloop, we put them on board after she was got out of the bay.
Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner.
They carried over with them materials for planting sugar-
canes, with some plants of canes; and among the rest of the
supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent them three
milch-cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs, three
sows in farrow, &c. &c. For my Spaniards I engaged three
Portugal women to go; and recommended it to them to
marry them, and use them kindly. I could have procured
more women, but I remembered that the poor persecuted man
had two daughters, and there were but five of the Spaniards
that wanted; the rest had wives of their own, though in ano-
ther country. All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may
suppose, were welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now,
with this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides
little children, of which there were a great many.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of dis-
course about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memoran-
dums would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and
expect to read only of the follies of an old man, not warned
by his own harms, much less by those of other men, to beware
of the like; not cooled by almost forty years misery and dis-
appointments; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expecta-
tion; not made cautious by affliction and distress beyond
imitation. I had no more business to go to the East Indies
than a man at full liberty, and having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock
him up among the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I
taken a small vessel from England, and gone directly to the
island; had I carried over servants and people to plant, and
taking possession of the place, fortified and strengthened it in
the name of England, as I might easily have done: had I
done this, and stayed there myself, I had acted like a man of
common sense. But I was possessed with a wandering spirit,
scorned all advantages, pleased myself with being the patron
of these people I had placed there, and doing for them in a
kind of haughty majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch;
providing for them, as if I had been father of the whole
family, as well as of the plantation: but I never so much as
gave the place a name; I left it as I found it, belonging to
nobody, and the people under no discipline or government but
my own, who, though I had influence over them as a father
and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command
one way or other, further than voluntary consent moved them
to comply. Yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done
well enough; but as I rambled from them, and came there no
more, the last account I had from any of them was by my
partner's means, who sent me word that they went on but
poorly; were malcontent with their long stay there; that
Will Atkins was dead; that five of the Spaniards were come
away; and that though they had not been much molested by
the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them;
and they begged of me to think of the promise I had made
to fetch them away, that they might see their own country
again before they died. But I was gone a wild-goose chase
indeed, and they who will have any more of me must be con-
tent to follow me through a new variety of hardships and wild
adventures; wherein the justice of Providence may be duly
observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us
with our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our
affliction, and punish us most severely with those very things
which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be allowed
in. Be it I had business, or no business, away I went. It
is no time now to enlarge upon the absurdity of my conduct;
but to come to the history—I was embarked for the voyage,
and the voyage I went. From the Brazils we made directly
over the Atlantic to the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tole-
rable good voyage, for my disasters at sea were at an end; my
future rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore. Our
ship was on a trading voyage, my nephew the captain. We
made no stay at the Cape, but made the best of our way for
Coromandel. I shall not pester the reader with descriptions
of places, journals of our voyages, and the like; it is enough
to name the places which we touched at, and what occurred to
us upon our passing from one to another. We touched first
at Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce and
treacherous, we fared very well with them for awhile. We
were obliged to stay here for some time; and I, that was
always too curious, was for going on shore as often as I could.
It was on the east side of the island that we went on shore
one evening, and the people came thronging about us, and
stood gazing at us at a distance. As we had traded with
them, and had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in no
danger: but, when we saw the people, we cut three boughs,
and stuck them up at a distance from us, which is a mark in
the country not only of friendship, but, when it is accepted,
the other side set up three boughs also, which is a signal that
they accept the truce too; and all the space between your
poles and theirs is allowed like a market for free converse,
traffic, and commerce. -
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that a
greater number of people came down than usual, but all were
very friendly, and they brought in several kinds of provisions,
for which we satisfied them with such toys as we had ; and we
made us a little hut of some boughs of trees, and lay on shore
all night. I know not what was the occasion, but I was not
so well satisfied to lie on the shore as the rest; and the boat
riding at an anchor about a stone's cast from the land, with
two men in her, I made one of them come on shore, and I lay
on board all night. About two in the morning we heard one
of our men on the shore calling out for God's sake to come
and help them, for they were all like to be murdered. Rous-
ing with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and
resolved to land and assist our men. We got soon to the
shore; and our men plunged into the water, to get to the boat
with all the expedition they could, being pursued by about
four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all. We took
up seven of them, and with difficulty enough too, three of
them being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse
was, that while we stood to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were : for they poured their arrows
in upon us so thick, that we were fain to barricade the side of
the boat up with the benches and two or three loose boards.
We had, by the light of the moon, a little sight of them as
they stood pelting us with darts and arrows, and having got
ready our fire-arms, we gave them a volley, and we could
hear by their cries that we had wounded several.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh
our anchor, because, if we stood up, they were as sure to hit
us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We
made signals of distress to the ship, which though she rode a
league off, yet my nephew hearing our firing, and that we
fired towards the shore, pretty well understood us; and
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore
as he durst, and sent another boat with ten hands in her to
assist us; but we called to them not to come too near, telling
them what condition we were in : however, one of the men
taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping our boat
between him and the enemy, so that they could not see him,
swam on board us, and made fast the line to the boat, upon
which we slipt our little cable, and they towed us out of the
reach of the arrows. As soon as the ship could lay her side
to the shore, we ran along just by them, and poured in a
broadside of pieces of iron and lead, bullets, and such stuff,
besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among
them. One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at
him, just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of
the tent we had made : the rest came off free, all but the
fellow who was the occasion of the mischief, who paid dear
enough for a black mistress, which, it seems, was the cause
of the quarrel. We could not hear what became of him. We
made signals for him, but in vain. I could not satisfy myself,
however, without venturing on shore, to try if I could learn
anything of him. It was the third night after the action that
I had a great mind to learn how the game stood. I was
careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again.
We took twenty stout fellows with us; and we landed two
hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians
stood drawn up the evening before. I landed here, because
I thought if we could surprise one or two of them, we might
get our man again by way of exchange. We landed without
noise, and divided our men into two companies, whereof the
boatswain commanded one, and I the other. At first we
could see nothing, it being very dark; but by and by our
boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a
dead body. This made them halt awhile for my coming
up. Here we concluded to halt till the moon rose; and
then we could discern the havoc we had made among
them. We told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground,
whereof two were not quite dead. When we had made a
full discovery of all we could come at the knowledge of, I
was for going on board; but the boatswain and his party sent
me word that they were resolved to make a visit to the
Indian town, where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt,
and asked me to go along with them, as they did not doubt
getting a good booty, and it might be they might find Tom
Jeffrys there, the man we had lost. I positively refused it,
and rose up to go to the boat. One or two of the men began
to importune me, and when I again refused began to grumble,
and say they were not under my command, and they would
go. “Come, Jack,” says one of the men, “will you go with
me? I will go for one.” Jack said he would; and another
followed, and then another; and, in a word, they all left me
but one: so the supercargo and I, with the third man, went
back to the boat, where we told them we would stay for them,
and take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them it was a mad thing they were going about, and supposed
most of them would run the fate of Jeffrys. They told me,
like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off again.
So away they went, though the attempt was desperate, and
such as none but madmen would have gone about. They
were gallantly armed, that is true; bolder fellows, and better
provided, never went about any wicked work in the world.
Their chief design was plunder, and they were in mighty
hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance, which none
of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, and
made devils of them all.
They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a tree:
this they presently concluded would be a good guide to them;
for the cow certainly belonged to the town, and if they untied
her they should see which way she went, and have nothing
to do but to follow her : so they cut the cord, and the cow
went on before them, and led them directly to the town,
which, as they reported, consisted of above two hundred
houses or huts. Here they found all in silence, as pro-
foundly secure as sleep and a country that had never seen
an enemy of that kind could make them. They desperately
resolved that they would venture upon them; but while they
were animating one another to the work, three of them, that
were a little before the rest, called out aloud, and told them
they had found Thomas Jeffrys. They all ran up to the place;
and there they found the poor fellow, hanged up naked by
one arm, and his throat cut. There was an Indian house just
by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of the
Indians awake, and talking one to another. The sight of
their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, that they swore
they would be revenged, and not an Indian who came into
their hands should have quarter; and to work they went
immediately. They presently made some wild-fire, by wetting
powder in the palms of their hands; and in a quarter of an
hour they set the town on fire in four or five places, and par-
ticularly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed.
As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures
rushed out to save their lives, but they drove them back, the
boatswain himself killing one or two with his pole-axe: the
house being large, and many in it, he did not care to go in,
but called for a hand-grenado, and threw it among them,
which, when it burst, made such havoc among them, that they
cried out in a hideous manner. In short, most of the Indians
who were in the open part of the house were killed or hurt
with the grenado, except two or three, who pressed to the
door, but the boatswain and two more dispatched all that
came that way. There was another apartment in the house,
where the prince, or whatever he was, and several others,
were; and these they kept in till the house fell in upon them,
and they were burnt together. All this while they fired not a
gun, because they would not waken the people faster than
they could master them; but the fire began to waken them
fast enough, and as fast as it either forced the people out of
those houses which were burning, or frighted them out of
others, our people were ready at their doors to knock them
on the head, still calling and hallooing to one another to
remember Tom Jeffrys.
While this was doing I must confess I was very uneasy,
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it
being night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew the
captain, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was. A thousand thoughts oppressed his
mind concerning me and the supercargo; and though he could
ill spare any more men, yet he takes another boat, and with
thirteen men comes on shore. He was surprised to see me
and the supercargo in the boat with no more than two men;
and though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the
same impatience with us to know what was doing. He told
me he would go and help his men, let what would come. It
was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest
before : he would go, he said, for he could not think of having
his men lost for want of help ; he had rather lose the ship,
the voyage, and his life, and all; and away he went. I was
no more able to stay behind now than I was to persuade them
not to go before: so the captain ordered two men to row
back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, so that he left
only sixteen men in the ship. Being now on the march, you
may be sure we felt little of the ground we trod on, and being
guided by the fire, went directly to the place. If the noise
of the guns were surprising to us before, the cries of the poor
people were now quite of another nature, and filled us with
horror. However, we went on, and at length came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it for the
fire. The first object we met with was the ruins of a hut, and
just before it lay four menand three women killed. In short,
there were such instances of a rage altogether barbarous, and
of a fury something beyond what was human, that we thought
it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or if they were,
we thought that they ought to be every one of them put to
the worst of deaths. We advanced a little way farther, and
beheld three women naked, and crying in a most dreadful
manner, come flying as if they had had wings, and after them
sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and con-
sternation, with three of our English butchers, for I can call
them no better, in their rear, who, when they could not over-
take them, fired in among them, and when the rest saw us,
believing that we would murder them as well as those that
pursued them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially
the women, and two of them fell down as if already dead with
the fright. My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood
ran chill in my veins, when I saw this; and I believe, had the
three English sailors that pursued them come on, I had made
our men kill them all. However, we took some ways to let
the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt them;
whereupon they crept in a huddle close behind us for protec-
tion. I left my men drawn up, and charged them to hurt
nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people, and see
what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to
do. I left them and went among those flying people, taking
only two of our men with me; and there was indeed a piteous
spectacle among them | I would fain have learnt what the
occasion of all this was, but I could not understand one word
they said, though by signs I perceived that some of them
knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terrified
in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I could not
stay there, but resolved to go into the middle of the town and
put an end to it, cost what it would : accordingly, as soon as
I came back to my party, I told them my resolution, and
commanded them to follow me, when in the very moment
came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, all
covered with blood and dust, as if they wanted more people to
massacre. As soon as he saw us he set up a halloo, like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come;
and without bearing to hear me, “Captain,” says he, “noble
captain, I am glad you are come. We have not half done
yet: hell-hound dogs' I will kill as many of them as poor
Tom had hairs upon his head! We have sworn to spare none
of them; we will root out the very nation from the earth !”
And thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would
not give us leave to speak a word. At last, raising my voice,
“Barbarous dog!” said I, “what are you doing I won't
have one creature touched more upon pain of death. I charge
you upon your life to stop your hands, and stand still here,
or you are a dead man this minute!” “Why, Sir,” says he,
--
2%
c.cº.za.<sº
“do you know what they have done? If you want a reason
for what we have done, come hither;” and with that he
shewed me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut. I
had now a new task upon my hands; for when the men I
carried with me saw the sight, I had as much to do to restrain
them : nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me,
in their hearing, that as the people had all glutted themselves
with the murder of the poor man, they ought to be used like
WOL. II. I

murderers. Upon these words away ran eight of my men
with the boatswain and his crew to complete their bloody
work; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them,
came away pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight,
much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches
that fell into their hands. I got nobody to come back with
me but the supercargo and two men, and with these I walked
back to the boats, and by the time I got to the sea-side it was
broad day: immediately I took the pinnace and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might happen.
I observed that about the time I came to the boat-side the fire
was pretty well out, and the noise abated; but in about half
an hour after I heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw
a great smoke : this, as I understood afterwards, was our men
falling upon forty men, who stood, armed with lances and
bows, to cut off their retreat to the shore, of whom they killed
sixteen or seventeen, but did not meddle with their women or
children. By the time the men got to the shore again with
the pinnace our men began to appear : they came straggling
here and there in such a manner that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all off. But the dread of them was
upon the whole people. I believe a hundred of them would
have fled at the sight of five of our men: nor in all this ter-
rible action was there a man who made any considerable
defence, so that they were everywhere knocked down. Nor
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one who
strained his foot, and another had one of his hands very
much burnt.
I was very angry in my mind with my nephew the captain,
and indeed with all the men, but with him in particular, as
well for his acting so out of his duty, as commander of the
ship, as in his prompting rather than cooling the rage of his
men in so bloody and cruel an enterprise: my nephew
answered me very respectfully, but told me that, when he saw
the body of the poor seaman whom they had murdered in
such a barbarous manner, he was not master of himself; he
owned he should not have done so, as he was commander of
the ship, but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he
could not bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not
subject to me at all, and they knew it well enough, so they
took no notice of my dislike. The next day we set sail, so
we never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the
account of the number they killed; but, according to the best
accounts, they killed or destroyed about a hundred and fifty
people, and left not a house standing in the town. As for the
poor fellow, Jeffrys, as he was dead, it would do him no ser-
vice to bring him away: so they left him where they found
him, only took him down from the tree where he was hanged
by one hand. However just our men thought this action, I
was against them in it, and I told them God would blast the
voyage, as I looked upon the blood they shed that night to
be murder in them : for though it is true that they had killed
Jeffrys, yet it was as true that Jeffrys was the aggressor, had
broken the truce, and had debauched a young woman of
theirs, who came to our camp, on the faith of their capitula-
tion. The boatswain defended this quarrel, and said that the
war was begun the night before by the natives themselves,
who had killed one of our men without provocation; that
though the poor man had taken a liberty with a wench, he
ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a villanous
manner; and that they did nothing but what was just, and
what the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. One
would think this should have been enough to have warned us
against going on shore among barbarians; but it is impossible
to make mankind wise but at their own experience, and their
experience seems to be always of most use to them when it is
dearest bought.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the Coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat. The
first disaster that befel us was in the Gulf of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the
Gulf were surrounded by the Arabs, and either killed or car-
ried away into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not
able to rescue them, and had but just time to get off their
boat. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution of
Heaven in this case; but the boatswain very warmly told me
that none of these five men who were now lost were of the
number of those who went on shore to the massacre of Mada-
gascar (so I always called it, though our men could not bear
the word massacre), and this put me to silence for the pre-
sent. But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had
worse consequences than I expected; and the boatswain came
up boldly to me at one time, and told me I used the men very
ill on that account, and himself in particular: that as I had
no command in the ship they were not obliged to bear it; that
they did not know but I might call them to an account for it
when they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I
would resolve to have done with it, and not concern myself
with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the ship, for
he did not think it was safe to sail with me among them. I
heard him patiently enough, and then told him I was a con-
siderable owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived I
had a right to speak even further than I had yet done, and
would not be accountable to him or any one else, and I began
to be a little warm with him ; he made but little reply to me
at that time, and I thought the affair had been over. We
were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the
ship's boat, and towards evening was preparing to go on
board, when one of the men told me he would not have me
trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders
not to carry me on board. Any one may guess what a sur-
prise I was in at so insolent a message. I asked the man who
bade him deliver it He said, the boatswain. I bid him
let them know he had delivered his message, and that I had
given him no answer. I immediately found out the super-
cargo, and told him the story, adding that I foresaw there
would be a mutiny in the ship; and entreated him to go on
board, and acquaint the captain of it: but before I had
spoken to him on shore the matter was effected on board: the
boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior
officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up to the
quarter-deck, and desired to speak with the captain; and there
the boatswain making a long harangue, for the fellow talked
very well, told the captain that, as I was now gone peaceably
on shore, they were loth to use any violence with me, which
they would have done, to oblige me to have gone. They
therefore thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped them-
selves to serve under his command, they would perform it
faithfully; but if I would not quit, they would all leave the
ship and sail no farther with him; and at that word “All” the
fellow turned his face towards the main-mast, which was the
signal agreed on between them, at which all the seamen toge-
ther cried out “One and All! One and All !” My nephew
was a man of spirit, and of great presence of mind; and
though he was surprised at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he would consider of the matter, but that he could do nothing
in it till he had spoken to me: he used some arguments with
them, but it was all in vain; they shook hands round, before
his face, that they would all go on shore unless he would
engage to them not to suffer me to come on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to
me; so he began to talk cavalierly to them; told them that I
was a considerable owner of the ship, and he could not put
me out of my own house, so they might do as they pleased.
However, he would go on shore, and talk with me, and invited
the boatswain to go with him, and accommodate the matter
with me. But they rejected the proposal: if I came on board,
they would go on shore. “Well,” said the captain, “if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with
him:” so away he came to me with this account. I was very
glad to see my nephew, for I was not without apprehensions
that they would confine him by violence, set sail, and run
away with the ship. But they had not come to that length, it
seems; and when my nephew told me what they had said to
him, I told him I would stay on shore; I only desired he
would send me all my necessary things, and leave me a suffi-
cient sum of money, and I would find my way to England as
I could. This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
there was no way to help it. So he satisfied the men that his
uncle had yielded to their importunity, and the men returned
to their duty, and I began to consider what course I should
steer.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, for I was
near three thousand leagues, by sea, farther off from England
than I was at my island. I had no other way before me but
to wait for some English ships, which were coming to Bengal
from Sumatra, and get passage for England, Here I had the
particular pleasure, speaking by contrarieties, to see the ship
set sail without me; a treatment, I think, a man scarce ever
met with, except from pirates running away with a ship, and
setting those that would not agree with their villany on shore.
However, my nephew left me two companions: the first was
clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to stay with me; and
the other was his own servant. I took a good lodging in the
house of an Englishwoman, where I was handsomely enough
entertained: and I stayed here nine months, considering what
course to take. I had some English goods with me, and a
considerable sum of money. I disposed of my goods, and to
advantage, and bought some diamonds, which, of all other
things, was the most proper for me, because I might always
carry my whole estate about me. After a long stay, an English
merchant, who lodged with me, came to me one morning :
“Countryman,” says he, “I have a project to communicate
to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may suit with
yours, when you shall have considered it. Here we are posted
in a part of the world very remote from our own country; but
it is in a country where a great deal of money is to be got :
if you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we
will hire a ship, the first we can get to our minds; you shall
be captain, I’ll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage
to China, for what should we stand still for P The whole
world is in motion; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies
and earthly, are busy and diligent: why should we be idle *
There are no drones in the world but men: why should we
be of that number P’’ I liked his proposal, and the more
because it seemed to be expressed in so friendly a manner.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
mind; and when we did, it was not easy to get English sailors.
However, at last we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner,
English; a Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast-
men; and with these we found we could do well enough,
having Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up. It
would be but very little diversion to anybody to give a long
account of the places we went to. It is enough for me to tell
you that we made a voyage to Achin, in Sumatra, first ; and
from thence to Siam ; thence up to Shushan : in a word, we
made a very great voyage; were eight months out, and re-
turned to Bengal, and I was well satisfied with my adventure.
Indeed, I got so much money by this adventure, and such an
insight into the method of getting more, that, had I been
twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have
stayed here, and sought no farther for making my fortune.
But what was all this to a man on the wrong side of three-
score, that came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire
of seeing the world, than a covetous desire of getting in it 2
My eye, like that which Solomon speaks of, was never satis-
fied with seeing, and was still more desirous of wandering and
seeing. I was come into a part of the world which I never
was in before, and was resolved to see as much of it as I
could; and then I thought I might say I had seen all the
world that was worth seeing. But my fellow-traveller had
different notions. He would have been content to have gone,
like a carrier's horse, backward and forward, provided he
could, as he called it, find his account in it: on the other
hand, mine, as old as I was, was the notion of a mad rambling
boy, that never cares to see a thing twice over. In the interval
of these cogitations, my friend proposed a voyage to me among
the Spice Islands. We were not long in preparing for this
voyage; the chief difficulty was in bringing me to come into
it: however, at last, finding that stirring about had more
pleasure in it than sitting still, which to me was the unhap-
piest part of life, I resolved on this voyage too, which we
made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, and, making near
five of one, we got a great deal of money. My friend, when
we made up this account, smiled at me: “Well, now,” said
he, with a sort of an agreeable insulting my indolent temper,
“is not this better than walking about here, and spending
our time in staring at the ignorance of the Pagans ?” “Why
truly,” said I, “my friend, I think it is. But I must tell you,
by the way, if once I conquer my backwardness, and embark
heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up and down the
world till I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall
never let you lie still.”
But to be short with my speculations: a little while after
this there came in a Dutch ship, from Batavia, of about two
hundred tons burden: the captain, having got money enough,
gave public notice that he would sell his ship, and I had a
great mind to buy it. So I went to my partner, and told him
of it; but musing some time, he replied, “She is a little too
big ; but, however, we will have her.” Accordingly we bought
the ship and took possession, resolving to entertain the men, if
we could, to join them with those we had, for pursuing our
business; but on a sudden, they having received, not their
wages, but their share of the sale-money, as we afterwards
learnt, not one of them was to be found. We inquired about
them, and were told that they were all gone by land to Agra,
the great city of the Mogul’s residence, and from thence were
to travel to Surat, and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. Nothing
so heartily troubled me a good while as that I missed the
opportunity of going with them; but I was much better satis-
fied a few days after, when I came to know what sort of fellows
they were: for their history was, that this man they called
captain was the gunner only; that they had been a trading
voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some of the
Malayans, who had killed the captain and three of his men;
and these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away
with the ship, and had brought her into the Bay of Bengal,
leaving the mate and five men more on shore, of whom we
shall hear further.
We picked up some English seamen here after this, and
some Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the
south-east; and, in short, not to fill this part of my story with
trifles, when what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent six
years in this country trading from port to port, and with very
good success, going in the ship on a voyage to China. In
this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and
down a great while in the straits of Malacca, we were no
sooner got clear of those difficult seas, but we found our ship
had sprung a leak, and we were not able by all our industry
to find out where it was. This forced us to make for the
river of Cambodia. While we were here, there comes to me
one day an Englishman: “Sir,” says he, “you are a stranger
to me, and I to you; but I have something to tell you, that
very nearly concerns you.” “If it very nearly concerns me,”
said I, “and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me?”
“I am moved,” says he, “by the imminent danger you are in ;
and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it. Do you
know, Sir,” said he, “the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen
leagues up this river ? And there are two large English ships
about five leagues on this side, and three Dutch.” “Well,”
said I, “and what is that to me?” “Why, Sir,” says he, “is
it for a man that is upon such adventures as you are upon, to
come into a port, and not examine first what ships there are
there, and whether he is able to deal with them I suppose
you don't think you are a match for them " I could not
conceive what he meant, and I turned short upon him, and
said, “Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot
imagine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the Com-
pany's ships, or Dutch ships; what can they have to say to
me?” Pausing awhile, but smiling, “Well, Sir,” says he,
“if you think yourself secure, you must take your chance; I
am sorry your fate should blind you against good advice; but
assure yourself you will the very next tide be attacked by five
long-boats full of men; and perhaps, if you are taken, you
will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined
into afterwards. I can tell you but part of the story, Sir,”
says he “but the short of it is this, that you were with this
ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by
the Malayans, with three of his men; and that you ran away
with the ship, and are since turned pirate. This is the sum
of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure
you, and executed with very little ceremony.” “Now you speak
plain English,” said I, “and I thank you; and though I know
nothing that we have done like what you talk of, but am sure
we came honestly and fairly by the ship, yet seeing such
work is a-doing as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard.” “Nay, Sir,” says he,
“do not talk of being upon your guard; the best defence is
to be out of the danger: if you have any regard to your life,
and the lives of all your men, put out to sea without fail at
high water.” “Well,” said I, “you have been very kind in
this: what shall I do for you to make you amends?” He
proposed that I should engage him and a Dutchman, his
companion, to serve under me. This I consented to readily;
and went immediately on board, the two men with me. As
soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner called to me
with a great deal of joy, “O ho! O ho! we have stopped the
leak!” “Say you so * said I; “weigh the anchor then
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 127
that?” “Ask no questions,” said I, “but weigh without
losing a minute.” He was surprised: but, however, he called
the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to sea.
Then I told him the story at large; and we called in the men,
and they told us the rest of it: but before we had done, a
seaman comes to the cabin-door, and calls out that we were
chased. “Chased " said I, “by whom, and by what?” “By
five boats,” said the fellow, “full of men.” “Very well,” said
I; “then it is apparent there is something in it.”
I ordered all our men to be called up, and told them that
there was a design to take us for pirates; and asked them, if
they would stand by us? The men answered cheerfully, one
and all, that they would live and die with us. Then I asked
the captain what way he thought best for us to manage a
fight with them; for resist them I was resolved we would, and
that to the last drop. He said, readily, that the way was to
keep them off with our great shot as long as we could, and
then to fire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us. The gunner had orders to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, and thus we made ready for fight; but all
this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see
the boats at a distance, with all the sail they could make.
Two of these boats, which we could see were English, had
outsailed the rest, and gained upon us considerably; upon
which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate that they should
bring to, and we put out a flag of truce, as a signal for
parley; but they kept crowding after us till they came within
shot: so we called to them, and bade them keep off at their
peril. It was all one, they endeavoured to come under our
stern, to board us on our quarter: upon which, seeing they
were resolute for mischief, I ordered to bring the ship to, so
they lay upon our broadside, when immediately we fired five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to
carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, so she lay by and
had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat still crowd on
after us, we made ready to fire at her. We called again to
the foremost boat, and offered to parley, to know what was
her business with us, but had no answer, only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this our gunner run out his
two chase-guns and fired at her: the shot missing, the men
in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on ; but
the gunner fired among them the second time, and one shot
fell among the men, which we could easily see had done a
great deal of mischief; and, firing three guns more, we
found the boat was almost split to pieces, her rudder and
part of her stern shot quite away: so they handed their sail
immediately, and were in great disorder, when, to complete
their misfortune, our gunner let fly at them again: where he
hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking,
and some of the men already in the water. Upon this I im-
mediately manned out our pinnace, with orders to pick up the
men, if they could, and come on board with them. Our men
VOL. II. K

followed their orders, and took up three men ; and as soon as
they were on board, we crowded all sail and stood farther out
to sea, and found that when the three boats came up to the
first two they gave over their chase. Being thus delivered
from a danger which seemed much greater than I appre-
hended, I took care not to let any one imagine whither we
were going : so we stood out to sea, quite out of the course of
all European ships. -
When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two
seamen what the meaning of all this should be 2 The Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow
that sold us the ship was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain was trea-
cherously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca,
with three of his men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four
more, got into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while, till at length he made his escape and swam off to a
Dutch ship. He then told us that he went to Batavia, where
two of the seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, having
deserted the rest, and gave an account that the fellow who
had run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of
pirates, which were gone a-cruizing in her. This latter part
we found to concern us directly; and though we knew it to
be false, yet, as my partner said very well, if we had fallen
into their hands, and they had had such a prepossession
against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have
defended ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their
hands; and therefore it was his opinion we should go back
to Bengal, because there we could prove whom we bought
her of, and the like; and if we were put to the necessity of
bringing it before the proper judges, we should have justice,
and not be hanged first and judged afterwards. I was some-
time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more serious
thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returning to Bengal; that we should be waylaid
on every side; that if we should be taken, as it were, running
away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there would
want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the
English sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind. This
danger startled my partner and the ship's company; and we
immediately resolved to go away to Tonquin, and so on to
China, and find some way to dispose of the ship, and come
back in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could
get. This was approved of as best for our security; and we
steered away N.N.E., keeping above fifty leagues off from the
usual course to the eastward.
I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself
in the most dangerous condition that ever I was in through
all my past life; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was
in no condition to make that innocence appear. My partner,
seeing me thus dejected, began to encourage me; and de-
scribing to me the several ports of that coast, told me he
would put in on the coast of Cochinchina. Hither then we
resolved to go. Accordingly we came within sight of the
coast early in the morning; and, upon reflection, we resolved
to put into a small river, to see if we could come to know
what ships were in any ports thereabouts. This happy step
was, indeed, our deliverance : for the next morning there
came into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, which we
believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues
distance, steering for the coast of China; and in the afternoon
went by two English ships, steering the same course; and
thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both
one way and the other. The people we were among were
the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast; and
among other customs they have this one, that, if any vessel
be shipwrecked upon their coast, they presently make the
men prisoners, that is to say, slaves; and it was not long
before we found a spice of their kindness this way, on the
occasion following. I have observed above that our ship
sprung a leak, and that we could not find it out; and as
we did not find her so perfectly sound as we desired, we
resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her on shore, and
if possible to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having lightened the ship, we tried to bring her down, that
we might come at her. The inhabitants, who had never seen
such a sight, came wondering down to the shore to look
at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a
manner, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her
bottom with stages, they presently concluded that the ship
was cast-away. On this supposition they came about us in
two or three hours' time, intending to plunder the ship. When
they began to row round her, they discovered us all hard at
work, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for awhile gazing at us, and
we could not imagine what their design was: but we took
this opportunity to hand down arms and ammunition to defend
ourselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no
more than need, for in a little time they agreed, it seems,
that the ship was really a wreck. Upon this they took it for
granted we all belonged to them, and away they came down
upon our men in a line of battle. Our men seeing so many
of them, cried out to us to know what they should do I
immediately called to the men upon the stages to get into
the ship, and bade those in the boat to come on board, and
to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boat could do as they were
ordered before the Cochinchinese were upon them, and two
of their boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold
of the men as their prisoners. The first man they laid hold
of was an English seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who having
a musket in his hand never offered to fire, but laid it down in
the boat, like a fool as I thought. But he understood his
business better than I could teach him ; for he grappled the
Pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where taking him by the two ears he beat his head so
against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his
hands; and in the mean time a Dutchman took up the musket,
and with the butt end of it so laid about him, that he knocked
down five of them who attempted to enter the boat. This
was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men; but
an accident gave our men a complete victory, which deserved
our laughter rather than anything else. Our carpenter, pre-
paring to pay the seams where he had caulked her, had got
two kettles let down into the boat, one filled with boiling
pitch, and the other with such stuff as shipwrights use for
that work; and the man that tended the carpenter had a great
iron ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that
were at work with that hot stuff. Two of the enemy entered
the boat just where this fellow stood: he immediately saluted
them with a ladlefull of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt
and scalded them, that they roared out like two bulls, and,
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter
saw it, and cried out “Well done, Jack, give them some more
of it!”—when stepping forward himself, he takes one of the
mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he threw it among them
so plentifully, that of all the men in three boats there was not
one that was not scalded with it in a most frightful manner;

and they made such a howling and crying, that I never heard
a worse noise : for it was worth observing, that though pain
naturally makes all people cry out, yet every nation has a
particular way of exclamation, and makes noises as different
from one another as their speech.
I was never pleased with a victory better in my life; not
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, but as we got it with-
out any bloodshed, except of that man the fellow killed with
his naked hands, which I was much concerned at ; for I was
sick of killing such poor savage wretches even in my own
defence, knowing they came on errands which they thought
just, and knew no better. But to return to my story. While
this was doing we brought the ship to rights; and, having
gotten the guns into their places, the gunner bid our boat get
out of the way, for he would let fly among them. I bid him
not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work without
him, but bade him heat another pitch-kettle. But the enemy
was so terrified that they would not come again; and some
of them that were farthest off, seeing the ship upright, began
to see their mistake and gave over their enterprise. Thus we
got clear of this merry fight, and resolved to stay here no
longer, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we
should be surrounded next day with rogues enough, perhaps
more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. The next
day, having finished our work, and finding our ship was per-
fectly healed, we set sail. When we were got to sea, we kept
on N.E. as if we would go to the Philippine islands; and this
we did that we might not fall into the way of European
ships; and then we steered north again, keeping the coast of
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all
the ports where European ships usually come. Being now in
latitude 30 degrees, we resolved to put into the first trading
port we should come at, and standing in for the shore, a boat
came off, with an old Portuguese pilot, who came to offer his
service. I thought it was now so much in our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk
with him about carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is
the most northern part of the coast of China. The old man
said he knew the gulf of Nanquin very well; but he told us
our best port had been to have put in at Macao. Not being
able to put the old man out of his talk, in which he was very
opinionated, I told him we were gentlemen as well as mer-
chants, and had a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin,
and the famous court of the monarch of China. “Why,
then,” says the old man, “you should go to Ningpo.”
“Well,” said I, “Senhor Portuguese, but the great question is
if you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence
we can travel to Pekin afterwards P’’ Yes, he said, he could
do so very well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up
that way just before. This gave me a little shock; a Dutch
ship was now our terror, and we had much rather have met
the devil, at least if he had not come in too frightful a figure.
The old man found me a little confused, when he named a
Dutch ship; and said to me, “Sir, you need be under no
apprehensions of the Dutch; you are no pirates, what need
you fear * If I had any blood in my body that did not fly
up into my face at that word, it was hindered by some stop in
the vessels appointed by nature to prevent it; for it put me
into the greatest disorder and confusion imaginable, nor was
it possible for me to conceal it so but that the old man easily
perceived it. “Sir,” said he, “I find you are in some dis-
order in your thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go
which way you think fit, and depend upon it I’ll do you all the
service I can.” “Why, Senhor,” said I, “it is true I am a
little unsettled in my resolution at this time, and I am some-
thing more so for what you said about pirates.” “O, Sir,”
said he, “do not be concerned; I do not know that there
have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except
one, which was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a
month since, but he got away. However, they have all so
exact a description of the ship, that they will be sure to know
him; and whenever they find him, they have vowed to give
no quarter to either the captain or the seamen, but to hang
them all up at the yard-arm.”
“What!” said I, “will they execute them right or wrong?”
“O, Sir,” said the old pilot, “there is no need to make a
formal business of it with such rogues as those; let them tie
them back to back, and set them a-diving.” I knew I had
my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me no harm,
so I turned short upon him. “Well, Senhor,” said I, “and
this is the reason why I would have you carry us to Nanquin,
and not to put back to Macao, or to any other part where
English or Dutch ships come.” With this I told him that
this was the very ship they had attacked; and gave him a full
account of the skirmish we had with their boats, and how
foolishly and coward-like they behaved. I told him all the
story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served
us. The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us
we were very much in the right to go away to the north; and
that if he might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in
China, which we might very well do, and buy another in the
country: “And,” said he, “though you will not get so good
a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all
your goods back again to Bengal.” “Well, but, Senhor,”
says I, “as you say they know the ship so well, I may, per-
haps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some
honest, innocent man into a terrible broil, and, perhaps, to be
murdered in cold blood.” “Why,” said the old man, “I’ll
find out a way to prevent that also ; for, as I know all those
commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as
they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the wrong,
and I am persuaded they will so far believe me as to act more
cautiously for the time to come.” Well,” said I, “and will
you deliver one message to them from me?” “Yes, I will,”
says he, “if you will give it under your hand in writing, that
I may be able to prove that it came from you, and not out of
my own head.” I answered that I would readily give it him
under my hand. So I took pen, ink, and paper, and wrote at
large the story of assaulting me with the long-boats, &c., the
pretended reason, and the unjust, cruel design of it; and
concluded to the commanders, that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but, also, that if ever
they came to England, and I lived to see them there, they
should pay dearly for it, if the laws of my country were not
grown out of use before I arrived there. My old pilot read
this over and over again, and asked me several times if I
would stand to it. I answered I would stand to it as long as
I had anything left in the world. But we had no occasion ever
to let the pilot carry this letter, for he never went back again.
While these things were passing we went forward directly
for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days came to anchor at
the south-west point of the great gulf of Nanquin; where I
came to understand that two Dutch ships were gone that
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their
hands. I asked the old pilot if there was no harbour which
I might put into, and be in no danger. He told me that to
the southward, about two-and-forty leagues, there was a little
port called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually
landed from Macao, and where no European ships ever put
in ; and if I put in there, I might consider what further
course to take. As we were unanimous in our resolutions to
go to this place, we weighed the next day. We came to the
port (the wind being contrary) not till five days; but it was
much to our satisfaction, and I was joyful when I set my foot
safe on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it was
possible to dispose of ourselves and effects, we would never
set foot on board that unhappy vessel more. For both my
partner and I scarce slept a night without dreaming of halters
and yard-arms; of fighting, and being taken; of killing, and
being killed; and one night I was in such a fury in my dream,
fancying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking
one of their seamen down, that I struck my double fist against
the side of the cabin I lay in, with such force as broke my
knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it not only
waked me out of my sleep, but I was once afraid I should have
lost two of my fingers. Then the story of Amboyna came
into my head, and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us,
as they did our countrymen there, and make some of our
men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never
were guilty of. These things tormented me, and my partner
too, night and day. In its turn, natural courage would some-
times take its place; and then I would be talking myself up
to vigorous resolutions that I would not be taken to be bar-
barously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold blood.
Whenever these thoughts prevailed I was sure to put myself
into a fever with the agitations of a supposed fight; my blood
would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as if I was engaged; and
I resolved that I would take no quarter at their hands; but
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship,
and all that was in her, and leave them but little booty to
boast of.
When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our
friend, got us a lodging and a warehouse for our goods: it
was a little house, with a large house joining it, and palisadoed
round with large canes to keep out thieves, of which it seems
there were not a few in the country. However, the magis-
trates allowed us a guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of
halbert, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at our door. The
first thing our old pilot did was to bring us acquainted with
three Romish priests, who had been there some time, convert-
ing the people to Christianity; but we thought they made but
poor work of it, and made them but sorry Christians when
they had done. One of these was a Frenchman, whom they
called Father Simon: he was a jolly, well-conditioned man,
very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and grave
as the other two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the
other a Genoese. Father Simon was courteous, easy in his
manner, and very agreeable company: the other two were
rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they came
about. Father Simon was appointed, it seems, by order of
the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin; and we scarce
ever met together but he was inviting me to go that journey
with him, telling me how he would shew me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and among the rest the great-
est city in the world: “A city,” said he, “that your London
and our Paris put together cannot be equal to.” This was the
city of Pekin. Dining with him one day, and being very merry,
I shewed some inclination to go with him, and he pressed
me and my partner very hard to consent. “Why, Father
Simon,” says my partner, “why should you desire our com-
pany so much You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure.” “O !”
says he, “you may, perhaps, be good Catholics in time; my
business here is to convert heathens, and who knows but I
may convert you too?” “Very well, Father,” said I, “so
you will preach to us all the way?” “I won't be troublesome
to you,” said he ; “our religion does not divest us of good
manners: we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so
without being uneasy to one another.” I liked that part of
his discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my
priest that I had left in the Brazils; but this Father Simon
did not come up to his character by a great deal. But to
leave him a little, we had something else before us at that
time, for we had all this while our ship and our merchandize
to dispose of; and once I was about to venture to sail for the
river of Kilam, and the city of Nanquin; but Providence
seemed now more visibly than ever to concern itself in our
affairs. The first thing that offered was, that our old pilot
brought a Japan merchant to us, who began to inquire what
goods we had. While we were dealing with him for our
goods, it came into my head that he might, perhaps, deal
with us for the ship too; and I ordered the interpreter to
propose it to him. He shrunk up his shoulders when it was
first proposed; but in a few days after he came to me, and
told me he had a proposal to make to me, that he would hire
the ship to go to Japan, and from thence to the Philippine
islands with another loading, and that, at their return, he
would buy the ship. The first thing we had to do was to
consult with the captain and the men, and know if they were
willing to go to Japan; while I was doing this, the young
man whom my nephew had left with me as my companion
came to me, and told me that he would be very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him
leave, he would go as a merchant, and if ever he came to
England, and I was there, and alive, he would render me a
faithful account of his success, and it should be as much mine
as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him; but, con-
sidering that he was a young fellow likely to do well in it, I
inclined to let him go; but first I told him I would consult
my partner. We discoursed about it, and my partner made
a most generous offer: he told me, “You know it has been
an unlucky ship, and we both resolve not to go to sea in it
again: if your steward will venture the voyage, I'll leave my
share of the vessel to him, and let him make the best of it;
and if we live to meet in England, and he meets with success
abroad, he shall account for one-half of the profits of the
ship's freight to us, the other shall be his own.” If my
partner made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer
him the same; and all the ship's company being willing to go
VOL. II. L
with him, we made over half the ship to him in property, and
took a writing from him, obliging him to account for the
other; and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant
proved a very punctual honest man to him, protected him,
and got his ship made a free ship. The governor of Manilla
next hired him to go to Acapulco, on the coast of Mexico.
There he sold his ship; and found means, some how or other,
to get to Jamaica with all his treasure; and, about eight years
after, came to England, exceeding rich.
Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it
came before us to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design
against us in the river of Cambodia. They deserved well at
our hands, though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues:
for, as they believed that we had really run away with the
ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the design
that was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates;
and one of them confessed afterwards that nothing else but
the hopes of going a-roguing brought him to do it. However,
the service they did us was not the less; and therefore, as I
had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the money
to be paid them which they said was due to them on board
their respective ships, and I gave each of them a small sum
of money in gold, which contented them very well: then I
made the Englishman gunner in the ship; the Dutchman I
made boatswain; so they were both well-pleased, and proved
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself
remote from my own country at Bengal, what could I think of
myself now when about a thousand leagues farther off from
home, and destitute of all manner of prospect of return ? To
divert ourselves, we went ten days journey to see the city of
Nanquin, a city well worth seeing indeed. I shall make no
description of country or people; it is none of my business,
or any part of my design; but giving an account of my own
adventures, through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a
long variety of changes, I shall say nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people I have yet to
pass through, more than relates to my own story, and which
my concern among them will make necessary.
I was now in the heart of China, for we were ret rned from
Nanquin; I had indeed a mind to see the city of Pekin, and
Father Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his
time of going away being set, it was necessary that we should
resolve either to go, or not to go; so I referred him to my
partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who resolved it in the
affirmative, and we prepared for our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, and were five-and-twenty days
travelling to Pekin, through a country infinitely populous, but
miserably cultivated—the husbandry, the economy, and the
way of living all very miserable, though they boast so much
of the industry of the people. The pride of these people is
infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty,
which adds to that which I call their misery. They are proud
and insolent, and, in the main, mere beggars and drudges:
their ostentation is inexpressible, and is chiefly shewn in their
clothes and buildings, and in the keeping multitudes of servants
or slaves, and, which is to the last degree ridiculous, their
contempt of all the world but themselves. Nothing was
more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious,
insolent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and
ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity is no more. Father
Simon and I used to be very merry to see the beggarly pride
of those people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, we had the
honour to ride with the master of the house about two miles:
the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a
mixture of pomp and poverty. The habit of this greasy Don
was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrew; being
a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings of a fool's coat,
such as hanging sleeves, taffety, and cuts and slashes almost
on every side : it covered a rich taffety vest, as greasy as a
butcher's, which testified that his honour must needs be a
most exquisite sloven. His horse was a poor, lean, starved,
hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for about
thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves followed him
on foot, to drive the poor creature along : he had a whip in
his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head
as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with
about ten or twelve servants, and we were told he was going
from Nankin to his country-seat, about half a league before
us. We travelled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman
rode away before us; and as we stopped at a village about an

hour to refresh us, when we came by the country-seat of this
great man, we saw him in a little place before his door eating
his repast: he was easy to be seen; and we were given to
understand that the more we looked on him the better he
would be pleased. He sat under a tree, which effectually
shaded him, but under the tree also was placed a large
umbrella: he sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a
heavy, corpulent man, his meat being brought him by two
women-slaves : one fed the 'squire with the spoon, and the other
held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fall
upon his beard and taffety vest with the other; while the
great fat brute thought it below him to employ his own hands
in any of those familiar offices which monarchs would rather
do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to,
and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill-managed,
must be to a man of common sense; and leaving the poor
wretch to please himself with our looking at him, as if we
admired his pomp, whereas we really pitied and contemned
him, we pursued our journey. Father Simon, however, had
the curiosity to inform himself what dainties the country
justice had to feed on, in all his state : he said he had the
honour to taste of it, and it was, I think, a dose that an
English hound would scarce have eaten, viz. a mess of boiled
rice, with a great piece of garlick in it, and a little bag filled
with green pepper, and another plant smelling like musk and
tasting like mustard: all this was put together, and a small
piece of lean mutton boiled in it; and this was his worship's
repast, four or five servants more standing attending at a
distance. If he fed them meaner than he was fed himself, the
spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.
I was now light-hearted, and had no anxious thoughts
about me, which made this journey much the pleasanter; nor
had I any ill accident, only in the fording a small river my
horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they call it;

that is to say, threw me in. At length we arrived at Pekin.
I had nobody with me but the youth whom my nephew had
given me to attend me, who proved very trusty and diligent;
and my partner had but one servant, who was a kinsman.
As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we bore his charges for his company. This old man was a
most useful implement to us everywhere; for we had not
been above a week at Pekin when he came laughing, “Ah,
Senhor Inglese,” said he, “I have something to tell you will
make your heart glad!” “My heart glad,” said I; “what
can that be? I don't know anything in this country can
either give me joy or grief to any great degree.” “Yes,
yes,” said the old man, in broken English, “make you glad,
me sorrow.” “Why,” said I, “will it make you sorry?”
“Because,” said he, “you have brought me here twenty-five
days journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and which
way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a ship, without
a horse, without pecune 2° so he called money, being his
broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry
with. In short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, and that they
were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks; and he was sure we
would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave him
behind to go back alone. I confess I was surprised with his
news: a secret joy spread itself over my whole soul, which
I cannot describe, and never felt before or since. “Well,
Senhor,” said I, “do not be uneasy about being left to go
back alone: if this be a method for my return to England, it
shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all.” I then
asked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and
whether it would suit with his affairs: he told me he would
do just as I would; he would be content to go to England.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, if our Portuguese pilot
would go with us, we would bear his charges to Moscow, or
to England, if he pleased, being willing to have him with us,
for he was a most necessary man on all occasions. He re-
ceived the proposal like a man transported, and told us he
would go with us over the whole world; and so we all pre-
pared ourselves for the journey.
It was the beginning of February when we set out from
Pekin. The company was very great, and made between
three and four hundred horses and camels, and upwards of a
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for
all events. They consisted of people of several nations, such
as Muscovites chiefly; and, to our particular satisfaction, five
of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great
experience in business, and very good substance. When we
had travelled one day's journey, the guides called all the gen-
tlemen and merchants to a great council, as they termed it.
And here they constituted the journey, viz. they named cap-
tains to give the command in case of an attack, and gave
every one their turn of command. The road on this side of
the country is full of potters; and, as I was going along, our
Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to
make us merry, came jeering to me, and told me he would
shew me the greatest rarity in all the country; and that I
should have this to say of China, after all the ill-humoured
things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing which was
not to be seen in all the world beside. I was importunate to
know what it was ; at last he told me it was a gentleman's
house, built all with China ware. “I mean, it is a house all
made of China ware, such as you call so in England; or, as
it is called in our country, porcelain.” “Well,” said I, “such
a thing may be: how big is it Can we carry it in a box
upon a camel? If we can, we will buy it.” “Upon a camel?”
said the old pilot, holding up both his hands; “why, there's
a family of thirty people lives in it!” I was then curious to
see it; and it was nothing but this: it was a timber house,
but all the plastering was really China ware. The outside
was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly white, and painted
with blue figures, as the large China ware in England is
painted. As to the inside, all the walls were lined with
painted tiles, all made of the finest China, and the figures
exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours,
mixed with gold. The floors of the rooms were of the same
composition, and as hard as stone, and smooth : the ceilings,
and, in a word, all the plastering work in the whole house,
were of the same earth; and the roof was covered with tiles
of the same, of a deep shining black. This was a China
warehouse indeed, and I could have stayed some days to exa-
mine it. They told me there were fountains and fish-ponds
in the garden, all paved at the bottom and sides with the
same; and fine statues set up in rows on the walks, entirely
formed of the porcelain earth, and burnt whole. As this is
one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to
excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of
it: for they told me such incredible things of their perform-
ance in crockery-ware that I care not to relate. One told me,
in particular, of a workman that made a ship, with all its
tackle, and masts, and sails, in earthen-ware, big enough to
carry fifty men. If he had told me he had launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said something to
it indeed; but as it was, I smiled, and said nothing.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for
a fortification against the Tartars; and a very great work it
is, going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where
the rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy
could possibly climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thousand
English miles, but that the country is five hundred, in a
straight measured line, which the wall bounds: 'tis about four
fathom high, and as many thick in some places. I stood an
hour to look at it; and the guide of our caravan, who had
been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty
eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most
excellent thing to keep off the Tartars, which he happened not
to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment;
but the old pilot laughed: “O, Senhor Inglese,” said he,
“you speak in colours.” “In colours ?” said I; “what do
you mean by that?” “Why, you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way; gay one way, and dull another way.
You tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars: you tell
me, by that, it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars; or
it will keep out none but Tartars. I understand you, Senhor
Inglese, I understand you,” said he, “but Senhor Chinese un-
derstand you his own way.” The Chinese wanted mightily to
know what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days
after; but when he knew what I had said, he was dumb all
the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of
the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed. After we had
passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, we began to find
the country thinly inhabited. And here I began to discover
the necessity of keeping together in a caravan; for we saw
several troops of Tartars roving about: but when I came to
see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese empire
could be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for they
are a mere crowd of wild fellows, keeping no order, and
understanding no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses
are poor, lean, starved creatures, and fit for nothing. Our
leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a
hunting, as they call it; and what was this but hunting of
sheep ! In our pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our
hap to meet with about forty Tartars: as soon as they saw us,
one of them blew a kind of horn very loud. We all supposed
this was to call their friends about them ; and so it was: for
in less than a quarter of an hour a troop of forty or more
appeared at a distance. One of the Scots merchants hap-
pened to be amongst us; and as soon as he heard the horn,
he told us that we had nothing to do but to charge them
without loss of time; and, drawing us up in a line, he asked
if we were resolved? We told him we were ready to follow
him: so he rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at
us like a mere crowd; but as soon as they saw us advance,
they let fly their arrows; but they all fell a little short of us.
We halted and fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden
arrows, following our shot full gallop, resolving to fall in
among them sword in hand; for so our bold Scot that led us
directed. As soon as we came up to them, we fired our pistols
in their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the greatest
confusion imaginable: the only stand any of them made was
on our right, where three of them stood, and, by signs, called
the rest to come back. Our brave commander, without asking
anybody to follow him, galloped up close to them, and with
his fusil knocked one of them off his horse, killed the second
with his pistol, and the third ran away; and thus ended our
fight: but we had this misfortune attending it, that all our
mutton that we had in chase got away. We had not a man
killed or hurt; but, as for the Tartars, there were about five
of them killed, and the other party was so frighted with the
noise of our guns that they fled.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, but in five
days we entered a vast wild desert, which held us three days
and nights march. I asked our guides whose dominion this
was in, and they told me this was a kind of border that might
be called No Man's Land; being a part of the Great Kara-
kathay, or Grand Tartary. In passing this wilderness, we
saw two or three parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to
be upon their own affairs; and so, if they had nothing to
say to us, we had nothing to say to them : we let them go.
We travelled near a month after this, still in the dominions
of the Emperor of China, but our road lay, for the most
part, in villages. When we came to one of these towns,
I wanted to buy a camel. The person I spoke to would
have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool, must
be officious, and go along with him. It was two miles away,
but I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese,
being very desirous, forsooth, of a little variety. When we
came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, walled round
with stone, with a guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors.
Having bought a camel I came away, the Chinese man leading
the camel, when on a sudden up came five Tartars on horse-
back: two seized the fellow, and took the camel from him,
while the other three stepped up to me and my old pilot. The
first that came up stopped short upon my drawing my sword,
for they are arrant cowards; but a second coming upon my
left gave me a blow on the head, which I never felt till after-
wards, and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the
matter with me and where I was, for he laid me flat on the
ground; but my never-failing old pilot (so Providence directs
deliverances from dangers which to us are unforeseen) had a
pistol in his pocket. The old man, seeing me down, stepped
up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his
arm with one hand, and pulling him down by main force
towards him with the other, shot him in the head, and laid
him dead upon the spot: he then immediately stepped up to
him who had stopped us, and before he could come forward
again, made a blow at him with a scimitar, but, missing the
man, cut his horse. The poor beast, enraged with the wound,
away he flew, and, at some distance, rising upon his hind legs,
threw the Tartar, and fell upon him. In this interval the poor
Chinese came in who had lost the camel, but he had no
weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, he runs to him,
and seizing upon an ugly weapon he had by his side, some-
thing like a pole-axe, he made shift to knock his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to
deal with still; and, seeing he did not fly nor come on to
fight, but stood stock still, the old man stood still too, and
falls to work to charge his pistol again: but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left my pilot a
complete victory. By this time I was a little awake; but I
wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. A few moments after, as my senses
returned, I felt pain, though I did not know where: I clapped
my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; and in another
moment memory returned, and every thing was present to me.
I jumped up instantly, and got hold of my sword, but no
enemies were in view. I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse standing quietly by him; and looking farther, I saw my
champion and deliverer coming back with his hanger in his
hand. The old man came running to me, and embraced me
with a great deal of joy, being afraid that I had been killed;
and seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt : but it was
not much, and I was well again in two or three days.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire. We
wanted about two days journey of this city, when messengers
were sent express to tell all travellers to halt till they had
WOL. II. M

a guard sent to them, for that a body of Tartars, ten thousand
in all, had appeared about thirty miles beyond the city. This
was very bad news to travellers. Accordingly, we had two
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison on our left, and three
hundred more from the city, and with those we advanced
boldly. Thus well prepared, we thought ourselves a match
for the ten thousand Tartars, if they had appeared; but when
they did appear, it was quite another thing. We had a river
to pass, and when we were entered upon a desert of about
sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we
saw an enemy was at hand. The Chinese, our guard on the
front, who had talked so big the day before, began to stagger,
and frequently looked behind them, which is a certain sign in
a soldier that he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was
of my mind, and called out “Senhor Inglese, those fellows
must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars
come on, they will never stand it.” “I am of your thinking,”
said I; “but what must be done º’’ “Done?” said he, “let
fifty of our men advance, and flank them on each wing, and
they will fight like brave fellows in brave company; but
without it, they will every man turn his back.” Accordingly
fifty of us marched to the right, and fifty to the left, and the
rest made a line of reserve, leaving the last two hundred to
make a body by themselves, and to guard the camels; only
that, if need were, they should send a hundred men to assist
the last fifty. The Tartars came on, and an innumerable com-
pany they were. A party of them came on first, traversing
the ground in the front of our line; and as we found them
within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance,
and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, which was
done; but they went off, as I suppose, to give an account of
the reception they were like to meet with ; and, indeed, that
salute clogged their stomachs: for they halted to consider of
it, and, wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design,
and said no more to us for that time.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum; and here
we rested one day. After this we passed several great rivers,
and two dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days
passing over; and on the 13th of April we came to the fron-
tiers of the Muscovite dominions. I could not but discover
an infinite satisfaction that I was now arrived in a Christian
country—where, at least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared, and whether ignorantly or not, the Christian reli-
gion was owned, and the name of the true God was called
upon and adored; and it made the very recesses of my soul
rejoice to see it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth,
if I understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is
to be found in any part of the world. We had at least twelve
hundred miles to the sea, eastward; two thousand to the
Baltic sea, westward; and almost three thousand miles, if we
left that sea, and went on west to the British and French
channels; we had full five thousand miles to the Indian
or Persian sea, south ; and about eight hundred miles to the
Frozen Sea, north; nay, if some people may be believed,
there might be no sea north-east till we came round the pole,
and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America, no mortal knows where.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions we had nothing
to observe but this, that all the rivers ran to the east. As I
understood by the charts, it was plain that all those rivers ran
into the great river Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the
natural course of it, must run into the Chinese ocean. Some
leagues to the north of this river there are several considerable
rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
to east; and these are all found to join their waters with the
great river Tartarus. These rivers running all northward
make it evident that the northern ocean bounds the land also
on that side; so that it does not seem rational in the least to
think that the land can extend itself to join with America on
that side, or that there is not a communication between the
northern and the eastern oceans.
We now advanced through a continued desert or forest,
which cost us twenty days to travel over it. In a village near
the city Nortzinskoy, the inhabitants are mere pagans; and I
had the curiosity to go and see their way of living. They
had a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out, upon an
old stump of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful as the
devil. It had a head certainly not so much as resembling any
creature that the world ever saw ; ears as big as goats' horns,
and as high; eyes as big as a crown-piece; a nose like a ram's
horn, and a mouth four-cornered, like that of a lion, with hor-
rible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under-bill. It was dressed
up in the filthiest manner that you can suppose : its upper
garment was of sheepskins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through
it; it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any
other proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outside of the village; and
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen
creatures flat on the ground round this block of shapeless
wood. I saw no motion among them any more than if they
had been all logs of wood, like their idol; and at first I really
thought they had been so; but when I came nearer, they
started up, and raised a howling cry, as if it had been so many
deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away, as displeased at our
disturbing them. A little way off from this monster stood
three butchers, as I thought them; and in the middle of the
tent were three sheep killed, and one young bullock. These
were sacrifices to that senseless log, and these three men
priests belonging to it; and the seventeen prostrated wretches
were the people who brought the offering, and were making
their prayers to that stock. I confess I was more moved at
, this brutish worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at any-
thing in my life: to see God’s most glorious and best creature
so stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere
imaginary object, made terrible by their own contrivance,
adorned only with clouts and rags; and that this should be
the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion
by the devil himself, who, envying his Maker the homage and
adoration of his creatures, had deluded them into such gross,
surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things, as one would think
should shock nature itself. But what signified all the astonish-
ment and reflection of thoughts * All my admiration turned
to rage; and I rode up to the image, or monster, call it what
you will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its
head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by one of the
horns; and one of our men that was with me took hold of the
sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a
most hideous outcry and howling ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I
was glad to scour for it; but I resolved to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights here, in order to provide
some horses, which they wanted; so we had leisure to put
my design in execution. I communicated my project to the
Scots merchant, of whose courage I had had a sufficient tes-
timony. I told him what I had seen, and that I was resolved,
if I could get but four or five men well armed to go with me,
to destroy that abominable idol; to let them see that it had
no power to help itself, much less help them that offered
sacrifices to it. He laughed at me : “Look you, Sir,” said
he, “if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you must do
it; but I would have you consider that, if you do this, they
will come by thousands to the governor of Nortzinskoy, and
demand satisfaction; and it will occasion a new war with all
the Tartars in the country.” Finding me resolute, he told me
I should not go alone, he would go with me; and he would
bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go with us,
one Captain Richardson. So we agreed to go, we three, and
my man-servant, and we resolved to put it in execution that
night.
We spent some time in mixing up some combustible matter
with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we
could get; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot,
about an hour after night we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o’clock, and found that the
people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The night was cloudy; the people seemed to be all at
rest; only that in the great hut, where we saw the three
priests we mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and, going up
close to it, heard people talking : we concluded, therefore,
that if we set fire to the idol, these men would come out to
rescue it from destruction, and what to do with them we
knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away, but when
we came to handle it we found it too bulky; so we were at a
loss again. The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the
hut, and knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out; but I could not join with that. “Well,
then,” said the Scots merchant, “I will tell you what we will
do: we will take them prisoners, tie their hands, and make
them stand and see their idol destroyed.” As it happened,
we had twine enough about us: so we resolved to attack these
people. We knocked at the door, when one of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized him, stopped his mouth,
and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where
we tied his feet also, and left him on the ground. Two of us
then waited at the door, expecting that another would come
out to see what the matter was; but nobody coming out, we
knocked gently, and out came two more, and we served them
just in the same manner, and laid them down by the idol some
distance from one another; when, going back, we found two
more were at the door, and a third stood behind them within
the door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them,
when the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots
merchant went in after him, and taking out a composition we
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it,
and threw it into the hut. When the fuzee we had thrown
in had filled it with so much smoke that they were almost
suffocated, we then threw in a fire of another kind, which
flamed like a candle, and following it in, we found there were
but four people left, two men and two women, who, as we
supposed, had been about some of their diabolic sacrifices.
They appeared frighted to death, and sat trembling and stupid,
and not able to speak for the smoke. We bound them as we
had the others, and carried them altogether to the idol. When
we came there, we fell to work with him; and first we daubed
him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and tallow mixed
with brimstone: then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and
mouth, full of gunpowder: then we wrapped up a great piece
of wildfire in his bonnet; and sticking all the combustibles
we had left upon him, we looked about to see if we could find
anything else to help to burn him, when my man remembered
that by the hut, where the men where, there lay a heap of
dry forage: away he and one of the Scotsmen ran, and fetched
their arms full of that. When we had done this, we took all
our prisoners, and having untied their feet, and ungagged
their mouths, and made them stand up, and set them just
before their monstrous idol, we then set fire to the whole. We
stayed by it till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears
of the idol blew up, and split and deformed the shape of it,

and we saw it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and
then setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be soon
quite consumed. Then we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said, “No, we must not go, for these poor
deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the fire, and
burn themselves with the idol.” So we resolved to stay till
the forage was burnt down too, and then we came away and
left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers,
nor could any man suggest that we had been anywhere but
in our beds. But it did not end so ; for the next day came a
great multitude of the country people, and in a most out-
rageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor
for insulting their priests, and burning their great Cham-Chi-
Thaungu–such a hard name they gave the monstrous creature
they worshipped. The governor, still patient, gave them all
the good words he could; at last he told them there was a
caravan gone towards Russia that morning, and perhaps it
was some of them who had done them this injury, and that
he would inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a
little; and accordingly the governor sent after us, intimating,
that if any in our caravan had done it they should make
their escape. This was very friendly in the governor. How-
ever, when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
anything of the matter; and, as for us, we were least of all
suspected. However, our captain for the day took the hint,
and we travelled two days and two nights without any con-
siderable stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus;
nor did we long stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena,
where we expected we should be safe.
It was the second day's march from Plothus that, by the
clouds of dust behind us, some of our people began to be
sensible we were pursued. We had entered the desert, and
had passed by a great lake, when we perceived a great body
of horse appear on the other side of the lake to the north,
we travelling west. They went away west, as we did; but in
two days more we saw them not. On the third day they
came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the evening.
It was in a narrow strait, between two very thick woods, that
we had pitched our little camp, expecting to be attacked in
the night. We had a most advantageous situation; for as we
lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running in our
front, we could not be attacked any way but in our front or
rear. In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished our situation.
They did not come on us like thieves, but sent three messen-
gers to demand the men that had burnt their god. The
leader of the caravan sent word he was well assured it was
not done by any of our camp; that we were peaceable mer-
chants, travelling on our business; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend ourselves. They
were far from being satisfied, and a great crowd came down,
by break of day, to our camp, and, setting up a great howl,
they let fly a crowd of arrows among us; but not one man
of us was hurt. Some time after this a cunning fellow, a
Cossack, as they call them, of Jarawena, in the pay of the
Muscovites, coming to our leader, said, “I’ll go send all
these people away.” So, getting on horseback, he takes a
great circuit about, and comes to the rear of the Tartars, as
if he had been sent express to tell them a long story, that the
people who had burnt their god were gone to Sibeilka, with a
caravan of miscreants, as he called them; and that they were
resolved to burn the god Schal Isar, belonging to the Ton-
guses. He counterfeited so well, that they all took it from
him, and away they drove, in a violent hurry, to Sibeilka; and
in less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight.
So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us
three-and-twenty days march, and in which we saw neither
house nor trees, nor scarce a bush. After we had passed this
desert, we came into a country pretty well inhabited. I
thought that, as we came nearer to Europe, we should find
the people more civilized; but I found myself mistaken in
this, for we had yet the nation of the Tonguses to pass
through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism and bar-
barity, or worse, than before. If the Tartars had their Cham-
Chi-Thaungu for a whole country, these had idols in every
hut and cave; so that almost every uncommon thing sets
them a sacrificing. But I am no more to describe people
than countries, any farther than my own story comes to be
concerned in them. After we were out of this desert, and
had travelled two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city
or station, on the great river Janezay. From this river to
the great river Oby, we crossed a wild, uncultivated country,
barren of people, but in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and
agreeable country. -
We had been now almost seven months on our journey,
and winter began to come on apace; when, considering that
we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, my partner
and I resolved to let the caravan go, and to make provision
to winter where we were, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the lati-
tude of sixty degrees, where we were sure of three things to
wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of provisions, a warm
house, with fuel enough, and excellent company. The most
wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to meet
with good company here, in the most northerly part of Europe,
near the Frozen Ocean, and within but a very few degrees of
Nova Zembla. But this being the country where the state
criminals of Muscovy are banished, this city was full of noble-
men and gentlemen, and some ladies. By means of my Scots
merchant, whom I parted with here, I made acquaintance with
several of these gentlemen, and received very agreeable visits.
It was sitting one night with a certain prince, one of the
banished ministers of state belonging to the czar of Mus-
covy, that my talk of my particular case began. He had been
telling me abundance of fine things of the greatness, the
magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the
Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and told him I
was a greater and more powerful prince than ever the czar of
Muscovy was. The Russian grandee looked a little surprised,
and began to wonder what I meant. I told him his wonder
would cease when I had explained myself. I opened the case,
and told them the story at large of my living in the island,
and how I managed both myself and the people there that
were under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the
prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the true greatness of life
was to be master of ourselves; that he would not have
exchanged such a state of life as mine to have been czar of
Muscovy; that the height of human wisdom was to bring our
tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storm without; that
he found the mind of man, if it was but once brought to
reflect upon the state of universal life, and how little this world
was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of
making a felicity for itself, suitable to its own best ends and
desires, with but very little assistance from the world; that
being now deprived of all the fancied felicities which he once
enjoyed in the world, he said he was at leisure to look upon
the dark side of them, where he found all manner of defor-
mity; and was now convinced that virtue only makes a man.
truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in the way to a
superior happiness in a future state; and in this, he said, they
were more happy in their banishment, than all their enemies
were, who had the full possession of all the wealth and power
that they, the banished, had left behind them.
“Nor, Sir,” said he, “do I bring my mind to this politi-
cally, by the necessity of my circumstances, which some call
miserable; but if I know any thing of myself, if the czar my
master should offer to reinstate me in all my former grandeur,
I would no more go back to it, than I believe my soul, when
it shall be delivered from this prison of the body, and has had
a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would come back to
the gaol of the flesh and blood it is now enclosed in, and leave
Heaven to deal in the dirt and grime of human affairs.”
He spake this with so much warmth in his temper, so much
earnestness and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in
his countenance, that it was evident it was the true sense of
his soul; and indeed there was no room to doubt his sincerity.
I have no time to give a full account of the most agreeable
conversation I had with this truly great man; in all which he
shewed that his mind was so inspired with a superior know-
ledge of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast
share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the same
to the last, as will appear in the story I am going to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dreadful winter I
thought it to be. The cold was so intense that I could not
so much as look abroad without being wrapt in furs, a mask
of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for
breath, and two for sight. The little daylight we had, for
three months, was not above five hours a day, or six at most ;
only that the snow lying on the ground continually, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved,
underground; and as for our servants, for we hired servants
here to look after our horses and ourselves, we had every now
and then their fingers and toes to thaw, and take care of, lest
they should mortify and fall off. It is true, in-doors we were
N
warm, the houses being close, the walls thick, and the windows
all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and
cured in the season; good bread enough, but baked as biscuits;
dried fish of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton, and of
buffaloes, which is pretty good beef. All the stores of pro-
vision for the winter are laid up in the summer, and well
cured. Our drink was water mixed with aquavitae instead of
brandy; and, for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, how-
ever, they have excellent good. The hunters, who ventured
abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh venison,
very fat and good; and sometimes bear's flesh, but we did
not care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which
we treated our friends; and, in a word, we lived very cheer-
fully and well, all things considered.
It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer,
and the weather at least tolerable : so the other travellers
began to prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and
to get things ready to be going. I saw all the travellers go
away before me, and about the latter end of May I began to
make ready to pack up ; and as I was doing this, it occurred
to me, that seeing all these people were left at liberty to go
whither they would, why did they not then go away to any
part of the world wherever they thought fit? But my wonder
was over when I entered upon that subject with the person
I have mentioned, who answered me thus: “Consider, first,
Sir,” said he, “the place where we are; and, secondly, the
condition we are in. We are surrounded with stronger
things than bars and bolts: on the north side is an unna-
vigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat never swam.
Every other way, we have above a thousand miles to pass
through the czar's own dominions, and through towns gar-
risoned by his troops; so that we could neither pass undisco-
vered by the road, nor subsist any other way: therefore it is in
vain to attempt it.” I was silenced; however, it came again
into my thoughts that I might certainly be made an instru-
ment to procure the escape of this excellent person, and that,
whatever hazard I run, I would certainly try if I could carry him
off. I took an occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts:
I represented to him that it was very easy for me to carry
him away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going to Moscow, we might easily pass
uninterrupted to Archangel, where I could immediately se-
cure him on board an English or Dutch ship, and carry him
off safe along with me; and as to his subsistence, and other
particulars, that should be my care, till he could better supply
himself. He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly
on me all the while I spoke ; nay, I could see in his very
face that what I said put his spirits into an exceeding fer-
w
ment: his colour frequently changed, his eyes looked red,
and his heart fluttered, that it might be even perceived in
his countenance; nor could he immediately answer me when
I had done, and, as it were, expected what he would say to
it. But after he had paused a little, he embraced me, and
said, “Dear Sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement;
banished from the crimes of life, rather than purchase a show
of freedom at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at
the expense of the future happiness which now I have in my
view, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of ; for I am
but flesh, a man, a mere man, have passions and affections
as likely to possess and overthrow me as any man : O be not
my friend and tempter both together l’” If I was surprised
before, I was quite dumb now, and stood looking at him ;
and, indeed, admired what I saw. The struggle in his soul
was so great, that I found he wanted to give vent to his
mind; so I said a word or two, and withdrew to my apart-
ment. About two hours after, I heard somebody near my
room, and I was going to open the door; but he had opened
it, and come in : “My dear friend,” said he, “you had almost
overset me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do
not close with your offer: I assure you, it is not for want of
a sense of the kindness of it in you; and I come to make
the most sincere acknowledgment of it to you; but I hope
I have got the victory over myself; and have an infinite
satisfaction, in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest
man still, though not a free man.” I had nothing to do but
make professions to him of my having no end in it but a
sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and should
always acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very
fine present of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from
a man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided them,
but he would not be refused. The next morning I sent my
servant to his lordship, with a small present of tea, two pieces
of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold which
did not all weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts, but were
far short of the value of his sables, which indeed, when I came
to England, I found worth near two hundred pounds. He
accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the
pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it of the Japan
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would
not take any more.
It was in the beginning of June when I left this remote
place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the world. We had
here the worst and the largest desert to pass over that we
met with in all the journey : the best we had to say for it was
that we thought we had no troops of Tartars to fear; but we
found it otherwise. We were just entered Europe, having
passed the river Kama, which is the boundary between Europe
and Asia; and, as we had a vast desert to pass, which, by
relation, is near seven hundred miles long in some places,
but not above two hundred miles over where we passed it,
so, till we came past that horrible place, we found very little
difference between that country and the Mogul Tartary; the
people mostly Pagans, and little better than the savages of
America, their houses and towns full of idols, and their way
of living wholly barbarous.
In passing this desert, I thought indeed we must, after all
our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped, have been
plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of
thieves. Of what country they were, whether the roving bands
of the Ostiachi, a kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks
of the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were the
sable-hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to know; but they
were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at
first above five-and-forty in number. They came so near to
us as within about two musket-shot; and, asking no questions,
they surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly
upon us. At length they placed themselves just in our way;
upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels,
being not above sixteen men in all, and sent out a Siberian
servant with us, to see who they were. The man came up
near them with a flag of truce, and called to them: however,
after some signs to him not to come nearer to them at his
peril, offering to shoot him if he advanced, the fellow came
back no wiser than he went.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy:
there was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile dis-
tance, a little clump of trees, which stood very near the road:
I immediately resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there. It was my old
Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency
attending him, that he was always readiest and most apt to
direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. We
advanced immediately with what speed we could, and gained
that little wood, the Tartars not attempting to hinder us.
When we came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction,
that it was a swampy, springy piece of ground, and that the
trees were very large, and stood pretty thick. We stayed
here, waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, without
perceiving they made any offer to stir; when about two hours
before night they came down directly upon us; and, though
we had not perceived it, we found they had been joined by
some more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half a shot of our little wood,
when we fired one musket without ball, and called to them
in the Russian tongue, to know what they wanted, and bid
them keep off; but, as if they knew nothing of what we
said, they came on with fury directly up to the wood-side,
not imagining we were so barricadoed that they could not
break in. Our old pilot was our captain, and desired us not
to fire till they came within pistol-shot. We bade him give
the word of command, which he delayed so long, that they
were within two pikes' length of us when we fired. We aimed
so true that we killed fourteen of them, and wounded several.
(See last page.) They were terribly surprised with our fire, and
retreated about one hundred rods from us, in which time we
loaded again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied
out, and coming up to the dead, we could easily perceive they
were Tartars. An hour after, they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where else
they might break in; but finding us always ready to face
them, they went off, and we resolved not to stir from the place
for that night. We slept little, but spent the most part of
the night in strengthening our situation, and, keeping a strict
watch, waited for daylight, which, when it came, gave us a
very unwelcome discovery indeed: for the enemy were now
increased to no less than three hundred, and had set up eleven
or twelve tents upon the open plain, at a little distance from
us. And now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had. The loss of my effects did not lie so near me, as
the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians at
the latter end of my journey, and even in sight of our port,
where we expected safety and deliverance. As for my partner
he was raging : he declared that to lose his goods would be
his ruin, and he was for fighting to the last drop. My old
pilot was of opinion we were able to resist them all in the
situation we then were in ; and we spent the day in debates
of what we should do: but towards evening, we found that
the number of our enemies still increased; and we did not
know but by the morning they might still be a greater num-
ber : so I began to inquire of those people we had brought
from Tobolski if there were no way by which we might avoid
them in the night, and either retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert. A Siberian servant of one
of our party told us, if we designed to avoid them, he would
engage to carry us off in the night by a way that went
north towards the river Petraz, by which he made no question
but we might get away, and the Tartars never the wiser. I
told him, if he thought it possible for us to escape, we had
nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, he would
lose his life if he did not perform it; and we immediately
prepared for the putting it in practice. As soon as it began
to be dark, we kindled a fire in our little camp, which we pre-
pared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars might
conclude we were still there ; but, as soon as it was dark,
having all our horses and camels ready-loaded, we followed
our Siberian guide, who, I found, steered himself by the pole-
star. After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to
be lighter; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon
began to rise: so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we
wished it to be ; and by six o'clock the next morning we were
gotten near forty miles, though the truth is we almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Russian village, named Kirma-
zinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck
Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set out
again, and travelled till eight next morning; and at length
passing a little river, called Kirtza, we came to a good large
town inhabited by Russians, and populous, called Ozomys.
There we heard that several troops or hordes of Kalmucks
had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now com-
pletely out of danger of them. Here, having need enough of
rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and I agreed to
give the honest Siberian who brought us hither the value of
ten pistoles for his conducting us.
In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the river
Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina, we were there
very happily near the end of our travels by land, that river
being navigable in seven or eight days passage to Archangel.
From hence we came to Lawrenskoy, on the third of July,
and provided ourselves with two luggage-boats and a barge,
for our convenience. We embarked on the seventh, and
arrived all safe at Archangel on the eighteenth, having been a
year, five months, and three days on the journey, including
our stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer had not a
Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when, after some consideration that the city of
Hamburgh might happen to be as good a market for our goods
as London, we took freight with him; and having put our
goods on board, we sailed from Archangel on the twentieth
of August, and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived
in the Elbe on the thirteenth of September. Here my partner
and I found a very good sale for our goods; and, dividing the
produce of our effects, my share amounted to £3475 17s. 8d.
notwithstanding the many losses we had sustained, and charges
we had been at.
To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence overland to the Hague, where I
I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London on the 10th
of January, 1705, having been gone from England ten years
and nine months. And here, resolving to harass myself no
more, I am preparing for a longer journey than all these,
having lived, in seventy-two years, a life of infinite variety,
and learnt sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and
the blessing of ending our days in peace.
THE END.
London : Palmer and Clayton, 9, crane court, Fleet Street.
-

WO R. KS
PUBLISHED BY JOSEPH THOMAS, 1, FINCH LANE.
—4–
SPLENDIDLY ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF FAIRY TALES.
.Just Published, in Sia. Wolumes, Price 15s. or 2s. 6d. each,
THE CHILD'S FAIRY LIBRARY; with 600 Engravings, from Designs by
Johannot, Granville, Gigoux, Français, &c. &c.
“One of the nicest little books ever issued for the delight and benefit of little
readers.”—-Court Journal.
“Delightful tales, illustrated with abundant engravings of first-rate excellence.”--
..Morning Chronicle.
Price 3s. cloth, or 3s.6d. half-bound,
THE GODS OF HOMER AND VIRGIL; or, MYTHOLOGY FOR CHILDREN.
With numerous Engravings, and appropriate Extracts from the Ancient Poets.
“A beautiful little volume, giving the youthful reader an excellent introduction to
the thronged divinities of Old Olympus.”—Literary Gazette.
Price 3s. cloth, or 3s.6d, half-morocco,
THE CHILD'S OWN HISTORY OF FRANCE. With authentic Portraits of
its Kings, from Pharamond to Louis Philippe.
“A concise and proper History of France, very appropriate for juvenile readers.”—
Literary Gazette.
Dedicated, by permission, to the Rev. J. R. MAJort, Head.Master to
King’s College School, Price 6s.
POPULAR GEOGRAPHY, being a Companion to Thomas's Library, or Imperial
School Atlases. By Rowland Bond, Professor of Geography and Mathematics.
“Of all the elementary works on Geography with which we are acquainted, this
appears to us the best.”—Wew Monthly Magazine.
In half-morocco, price 14s. plain, or 21s. coloured,
THOMAS'S LIBRARY ATLAS of Modern and Ancient Geography; containing
Eighty Maps beautifully engraved, from Original Drawings, according to the best and
most recent authorities, carefully revised by eminent Geographical Professors.
“The divisions are distinctly and accurately delineated; the lettering is well executed,
and the longitudes and latitudes are clearly marked.”—United Service Journal.
WORKS PUBLISHED BY JOSEPH THOMAS, FINCH LANE.
Price 10s. plain, or 14s. coloured,
THOMAS'S LIBRARY ATLAS,-MODERN.
Price 6s. plain, or 8s. coloured,
THOMAS’S LIBRARY ATLAS,-CLASSICAL.
Price 12s. plain, or 15s. coloured,
THOMAS"S IMPERIAL SCHOOL ATLAS of Modern and Ancient Geography,
containing Forty-four Maps, engraved from the best authoritics, by Lizars.
Price 2s. 6d. cloth,
POPULAR STATISTICS, and Universal Geography; a perpetual Companion to
all the Almanacks, containing the Length, Breadth, Population, Chief Cities, Produce,
Government, &c. of every State in the World.
“Without exaggeration, it contains a larger body of information than was ever before
compressed into so small a space, or sold at so low a price.”—Metropolitan Magazine.
The greatest obstacle to learning the French Language entirely removed.
Price Is.
PRIDEAUX'S CONCISE RULES for Acquiring the Genders of FRENch Nouns.
“The clearest and most complete of all the numerous publications on the subject.”—
P. F. Merlet, Professor of French to the London University.
Price 1s. 6d. bound in sheep,
RULES FOR THE PRONUNCIATION OF THE FRENCH LANGUAGE.
By the Rev. R. VALPY, D.D. A New Edition.
Price 9d.
GEOGRAPHY FOR CHILDREN. By Rowland Bond, Author of “Popular
Geography.”
Price One Penny,
THE FIRST STEP IN GRAMMAR. By Rowland Bond.
Price 8d.
WELLS'S SHORT HAND–Facilis, celera, certa.-Second Edition.
tº º tº tº
o
tº º tº tº

