i*-


Hubbard
Imag. Voy.
'At
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
'k jv:> t ix r
/;</. //.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER:
WHO LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALONE I N AN
UNINHABITED ISLAND, ON THE COAST OF AMERICA,
NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE GREAT RIVER OR00N0OJUE.
WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF ««IS TRAVELS
ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
ENRICHED WITH XLEGANT PLATES DESCRIPTIVE OF THE
SUBJECT*
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR W. LANE, LEADENHALL-STREET.
MDCCXC.
10 - /tf«/fi.f
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
THAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions
in England, viz. That what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh, was never more verified than
in the story of my life.—Any one would think, that
after thirty.five years affliction, and a variety of un-
happy circumstances, which few men, if ever any, went
through before; and after near seven years of peace and
enjoyment in the fulness of all things; grown old, and
when, if ever it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle life, and to know which
was most adapted to make a man completely happy; I
fay, after all this, any one would have thought, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account
of in my first setting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be fully evaporated, or at least condensed,
and I might at sixty-one years of age have been a little
inclined to stay at home, and have "done venturing life
and fortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to seek—If I had gained ten thou-
Aj sand
ADVENTURES OF
sand pounds, I bad been no richer; for I had alrea4y
sufficient Tor me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
that I had was visibly increasing; for having no great
family, I could not spend the income os what 1 had,
unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli-
nation to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit.
still, and sully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase
daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical dis*
stamper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I Jest there, run in,
my head continually.—rP dreamed of it all night, and
my imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost:
in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily
and strongly uponjt, that I., talked of it in my steep;
in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind.—It
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it
made my conversation tiresome; for I could talk of no-
thing else,; all my discourse ran.,, into it, even to. im-
pertinence; arid I saw it myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgment fay, that
all the stir people make in the world about ghosts and
apparitions, is owing to the strength of imagination,
and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds;.
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like: That people's poring affec-
tionately upon the past conversation of their deceas'd
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that
they fee them, talk to them, and are answered by them;
when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing,and they really know nothing of the matter.
For n*y part, I know not to this hour, whether
there are any such things as real apparitions, spectres,
or walking of people after they are dead, or whether
there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind,
jnore than the product of vapours, sick minds, and
waridsring fancjes.-?*Bu.t this I know, that my imagina-
tion
tion worked me up to such a height, and brought me into
such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at
my old castle behind the trees; I saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors, whom I left
upon the island.—Nay, I fancied I talked with them, and
looked at them so steadily, tho* 1 was broad awake, as
at persons just before me; and this I did till I often
frightened myself with the images my fancy represented
to me.—One time, in my sleep, I had the villainy of
the three pirate sailors so lively related to me by the
first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions
the yhad laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them;
things that I had never heard of, and yet they were all
of them Jrue in fact; and it was so warm in my ima-
gination, and so realized to me, that to the hour I
sew them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or
would be true; also how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three
to be hanged. — What there was really in all this mall
be seen in its place; for however I came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits
injected it, yet there was, I fay, very much of it true.
I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and
specifically true; but the general part was so true, the
base and villainous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
of the fact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them severely, so if 1 had hanged them all, I had been
much in the right, and mould have been justified both
by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: in this kind of temper
I had lived some years; I had no enjoyment of my
life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion, but
what had something or other of this in it; so that my
wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me,
A 4 which
S 4:%Y EKTyi ES $ F
which had determined me to go thither again; and that
stie found nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged'to a wife and children,—She told me, that it was
tr tie/ she' could not think of parting with me; but as she
SvaS assured, that if she was dead, it would be the first
thtngl would do; so, as it seemed to her, that the: thing
was determined above, she would not be the only ob-
struction; for, if I thought fit, and resolved to go—~-
Here she found me very intent upon her words, and that
I looked very earnestly at her j so that it a little disor-
dered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not
go on, and say out what ihe was going to fay. But I per-
ceived hsr heart was too full, and some tears stood in
her eyes.—Speak out, my dear, fays I; are you willing
I should go.? No, fays ihe, very affectionately, I am far
from willing; but if you are resolved to ga, says ihe,
rather than 1 will be the only hindrance, I will go with
you; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if it must be,
said ihe again, weeping, I won't leave you; for if it be
of heaven, you must do it, there is no resisting it—And
if heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also make
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that
I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wife, brought me
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider what
I was doing—I corrected my wandering fancy, and be-
gan to argue with myself sedately, what business I had,
after three score years, and after such a life of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy
a manner, I say, what business had I to ruin into new
hazards, and put myself upon adventures, sit only for
youth and poverty to run into.
With those thoughts, I considered my new engage-
ments—that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife
then great with child of another; and that I had all the
world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards
for gain—that I was declining in years, and ought to
think father of leaving what I had gained, than of seek-
ing tdtttcrease it; tha^ as to what my wife had said, of
its being an impulse from Heaven, and that it stiould
bemy tluty to go, I had no notion of that; so after
many
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the pqwcr
of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe
people may always do in like cafes, if they will; and, in
a word, I conquered it: composed myself with such argu-
ments as occurred to my thoughts, and wfticb my present
condition furnished me plentifully with;, and particular-
ly, as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert my-
self with other things, and to engage in some business
that might effectually tie me up from any more excur-
sions of this kind; for I found,the thing returned upon
me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of moment immediately before me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had
a little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
I found was capable of great improvement, and that it
was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted
in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of
land; and particularly, being an inland county, I was
removed from conversing among ships, sailors, and
things relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my fa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon>
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriously to work,
became in one half year a mere country gentleman ^
my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my
servants, cultivating the ground, inclosing, planting,
&c. and I lived, as I thought, the moll agreeable life
that nature was capable of directing, or that a mari
always bred to misfortunes, was capable of being re-
treated to.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay,
was limited by no articles; I cculd pull up,, or cut
down, as. I pleased; what I planted was for myseif j
and what I improved was for my family; and having,
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the least discomfort in any part of my Use, as to this
world. Now I thought indeed, that I, enjoyed thac
middle state or life; which my father so earneiUy re-
commenced to me: a kind of heavenly life, sometAmp-
like what is described by the poet, upon the sabject of ^
country liie. • .,*.--
A £ Free
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from
unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once, and not only
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into
the wandering disposition, which, as I may fay, being
born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me,
and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible force upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression upon me. This blow was
the loss of my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my
wife, to give a character of her particular virtues, and
make my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral
sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my ,
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises; the engine,
that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass
I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project: .
that fluttered in ray head, as above; and did more to
guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a
father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own
reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening to
her tears, and in being mpved by her intreaties, and to
the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by
the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world Jooked aukwardly
round me; I was as much a stranger in it, in my .
thoughts, as I was in the Brasils, when I first went on .
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist-
ance of servants, as I was in my islands I knew neither
what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world busy
round me, one part labouring for bread, and the other
squandering it. in vile excesses, or empty pleasures;
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still
fled from them; for the men of pleasure every day sur-
feited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow
and repentance; and the men of labour spent thei*
strength in daily strugglings for bread, to maintain the
vital strength they labpured with; so Jiving in a daily
"~" cifr.
circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live; as if daily bread were the only end of a
wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only occasion
of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my king-
dom, the island ; where I suffered no more corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause I had no more use for them: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce
the favor to be looked upon in 20 years.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search further than human,
enjoyments for a full felicity, and that there was some-
thing which certainly was the reason and end of life,
superior to all these things, which was either to be pos-
sessed, or at least hoped for on this fide the grave. .
But my sage counsellor was gone; I -was like .a ship
without a pilot, that could only run before the wind: my
thoughts run all away again into: the old affair,, my
head was quite turned with the whimsies of .foreign
adventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements
of my farm, and my garden, my cattle and my family,
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear,
or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved
to; leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to
Irondon; and in a few months after I did so%.*.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as 'be*
fore; I-had.no relish to the place, no.employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like, an idle person,
of whom it may be said, he, is perfectly useless in God's
creation, and it is net one farthing :m at ter ta. the. rest
of his kind, whether^ he be dead ©r alive.c Tnis also was
the thing, which of all' circumstances-of life was the
most my aversion, who had been all 'my days used to an
active life; and I would often soy.to myself, a state of
idleness is the very dregs of life; and indeed I thought I
was much more suitably employed, when I was 26 days^
making a deal board, j.
It was now the beginning t>f the'-year 16^5,'when
m§f< nephew* .whom, 43-1 have observed before, I had
A*6 - brought
i% A B V t M t U*E8 6t
brought up to the sea, ancf had made him coittmandef as
a {hip, wass come home from a short voyage to Bilboa,
being the first he had made; he came td me, and told
me, that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East-
Indies and to China, as private traders: And now, uncle,
fays, he, if you will goto sea with me, I'll engage to land,
you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to
touch at the Brasils.
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of
things, which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved,
snd not communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of
what he had in his thoughts to fay; when that very
morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-
captain, and so, if it was rational and practicable, I
would go and fee the island again, and fee what was be-
come of my people there. I had pleased myself also with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession,
and I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in
comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thither, in his way to the East-Indies.
1 paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at
him, What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky er-
jand I My nephew startled, as if he had been frighted
at first; but perceiving 1 was not much displeaied with
the proposal, he recovered himself: I hope it may not be
an unlucky proposal, sir, says he; I dare fay you would
Be pleased to see your new colony there, where you once
reigned with more felicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world.
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with ray tem-
per, that is to fay, with the prepossession I wa^ under,
and of which I have said so much, that I.told him in
few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I weald
R O BI N S P*T CRUSOE. . rj
go with him: but I told him, J would not promise Co go
any farther than my own island. Why, Sir, says he, you
don't want to be left there agaia, I hope f Why,&idJU
can you not lafce me up again in your return? He told
me it would not be passible to do. so; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loadea-
ship of such value, it being a month's fail out of hisway,
and might be three or four: Besides, Sir, if I should mis-
carry, said he, and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed stoop <m
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of some
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry wita us, be set up
again in the island, and finished, fit to go to sea in a few
days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew, joine^ in so effectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wife being dead, 1 had Eobody that concern-
ed themselves so much for me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my ancient good friend the wi-
dow, who'earnestly struggled with me to consider my*
years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard,
of a long voyage; and, above all, my young children t
but it was all to no purpose, I had an irresistible desire
to go the voyage *> and I told her, I thought there was*
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon
my mind for the voyage, that it would be a kind of
resisting Providence, if 1 should attempt to stay at homey
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined,
with me, not only in making provision for my voyage,
but also in settling my family-affairs in my absence, and
providing lor the education of my children.
In order to this,. I made my will, and fettled the
estate 1 had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that 1 was perfectly easy and
satisfied they would have justice done them, whatever
might befal me; and for their education, I left fy
wholly to my widow, with a sufficient maintenance t<»
h&fetf for her care -, all which she richly dckrvQd: for
no
no mother could have taken more care in their educa-
tion, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came
home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to fail about the beginning
of January, 1694.-5, and I, with my man Friday, went
on board in the Downs the 8th, having, besides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony,
which if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
purposed to place there, as inhabitants, or at least, lo
set on work there upon my own account while I staid,
and either to leave them there, or carry them forward,
as they should appear willing, particularly I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious fellow,
who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general me-
chanic, for he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn, u. was a good turner, and a
good pot-maker; he also mafe'any thing that was proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we called him:
our jaCk of all trades.
With these 1 carried a taylor, who had offered himself
to go passenger to the East-Indies with my nephew, but
afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation, and
proved a moil necessary handy fellow as could be de&red>
in many other businesses besides that of his trade ; for as
I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ-
ments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect,.for I have not
kept an account of particulars, consisted of a sufficient
quantity of linen, and some thin Englim stuffs for clothing.
the Spaniards that I expected to find there, and enough .
of them, as by my calculation might comfortably supply
them for seven years ; if I remember right, the materials
which I carried for cloathing them, with gloves, hatsP .
shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could
want for wearing, amounted to above 20©1. including
some beds, bedding, and houfhold stuff, particularly;
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, Sec.
besides near jooL more in iroiuwock, nails, v tools
of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every neces-
sary thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and
fusils, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of
slltot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what
time, and what extremities, I was providing for, I car-
ried an hundred barrels of powder, besides (words, and
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts,
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts
of stores; and I made my nephew carry two small .
quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to
leave behind, if there was occasion, that when they
came there, we might build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies; and indeed at first f thought there
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island, as shall be .
seen in the course of the story.
I, had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had:;
been u&d to meet with, and therefore shall have the less
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet some odd accidents, cross-winds, and bad weather:
happened, on this first setting out, which made the voyage.
longer than I expected it at first; and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea*
in which I might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at first designed, began to think the fame ill
fate still attended me; and that I was born to be never?
contented with my own shore, and yet to be always un-,
fortunate at sea. .
Contrary winds firft put. us to the northward, and
we were obliged to put in at G&lway, in Ireland, where-
we lay windbound two and thirty days; but we had this
satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were here
exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that while
we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather
abided to them; here also I took several hogs, and two
Cpws with their calves> which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put amore in my island,J?ut we found occasion
td dispose otherwise of .them*..
We
We:ftt--out the 5th of February Irotn Ireland, and had
a Vefy-I&ir 'gale of wind, for some days; as I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came into
the round house, and told us he saw a Sash of fire, and
heard a gun fired; and while he was telling as of it, a
boy came in, and told as the boatswain heard another*
This made us all run out upon the quarter deck, where
for a while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes we
saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that
there could be no land that way, in which the fire
shewed itself, no, not for 500 leagues, for it appeared
at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some
ship on fire at sea; and as by our hearing the noise
of guns just before, we concluded it could not be far
off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently sa-
tisfied we should discover it, because the farther we sailed
the greater the light appeared, though the weather being
haz , we could not perceive any thing but the light
for a while: in about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being fair ur us, though not much of it, and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern, that it was
a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea. I was
most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I presently
recollected my former circumstances, in what condition
I was in when taken up by the Portuguese captain; and
how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to the ship must be, if they had no
other ship in company with them; upon this I im-
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one
soon afer another, that, if poflibie, we might give notice
to them, that there was help for them at hand, and thai
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat;
for though we could fee the flame in the ship, yet they.,
it being night, could see nothing of us. ~*
Wet lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waking for day-light* when on a'
sudden, to our great terror, though w© -hadr reason
to expect it, the ship blew up in tne air, and imme-
diately,
diately swfe I This was terrible, and indeed an afflicting
%hJt>:for the fake of the poor men, who, J concluded,
must be either all destroyed, in the ship, or be in the ut-
most distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not
fee; however, to direct them as well as I could* I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where
we could, and which we had lanthorns for,, and kept
iring guns all the night long, letting them know-by
this, that there-was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help of our perspective-glasses;
and found there were two of them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water; we perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our
ship, and did the utmost to make us fee them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board, and then made more fail, standing
directly to them* In a little more than haif an hour we
came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women and children 5
for there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant
mip of 300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in
the river of Canada. The master gave us a long ac-
count of the distress of his ship, how the fire began in the
steerage by the negligence of the steersman; bur, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the
first fire had gotten into some part ©f the ship, so difficult
to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; and
afterwards getting in between the timbers, and withLi
the cielingof the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the stcill and all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large;
being their long boat, and a great shallop, besides a
small skiff, which was of no great service to them,
ofher than to get some fresh water and provisions into
her
her, after they had secured themselves from the sire.
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats, at that distance from any land; only,
as they said well, that they were escaped from the fire,
and had a possibility that some ship might happen to
be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails,
oars, and a compass, and were preparing to make the
best of their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing
pretty fair; for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it
so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about a 2 days, in which, if they had no bad weather,
and no contrary winds, the captain said, he hoped he
might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some fish to sustain them till they might go
on shore. But there were so many chances against
them in all these cases; such as storms to overset and
founder them, rains and cold to benumb and perish
their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them, that it must have been next to miraculous if they
had escaped.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being
hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain, with tears
in his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprised with
the joy of hearing a gun fire, and after that four more;
these were the five guns which I caused to be sired at first
feeing the light; this revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as above, I designed it snould,
viz. that there was a ship at hand for their help.
It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took
down their masts an;! fails, and the found coming from
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they sired
three musquets, one a considerable while after another;
but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time after that again, they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hear-
ing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to
be sired all the rest of the night; this set them to
work with their oars to keep their boats a-head, at
least that we might the sooner come up with them;
and
and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures,
the strange ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these
poor delivered people run into, to express the joy of their
fouls, at so unexpected a deliverance; grief and fear arc
easily described ,- sighs, tears, groans, and a very few mo-
tions of head and hands, making up the sum of its variety:
but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagancies in it; there were some in tears, some
raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the
greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark raving and down-
right lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their feet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, several singing, some laughing, more crying,
many quite dumb, not able to speak a word, others sick
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint, and
a few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thankful afterward; but the passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it; they were thrown into ecstacies and a kind of frenzy,
and so there were but a very few who were composed and
serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
from the particular circumstance of the nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whose temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations. I
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen before came up to it: the ec-
stacies poor Friday, my trusty iavage, was in, when he
found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it; and
the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the two villains that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
any where else in my life.
It is farther observable, that these extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the va-
riety would appear in a short succession of moments,,
*tt A1 fiftEKT trll^S OF
iii-6i&Tafid the fame person* A man that we saw thit
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded,
should ^tfie next minttfe be dancing and hallooing like
an Muscle, and the next moment tearing his Jiair, or
pulling mVdbaths to pieces, and stamping them under
Ms fee*t4ike a madman; a Few minutes after that, we
should -hare him all in tears, then lick, then swooning;
and had not immediate help been had, would in a few
moments more, have been dead; and thus it was, not
with one or two, or ten or twenty but with the greatest
part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let above thirty of them blood.
There were two priests among them, one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, that the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and
saw himself safe, he dropped down stone dead, to all
appearance; not the least sign of life could be perceived
in him; our surgeon immediately applied proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something
freely 5 in three minutes after the man opened his eyes,
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke;
grew better, and, in a little time quite well; after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
fectly well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself.
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had fainted, and told him, the
priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had began to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind,
and this put him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits
whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them;
the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was
as fit for Bedlam, as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze an4 put
him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon
him
ROBINSONC KV$ O E. %t
him, and he waked next mpnnng perfectly composed
and well.
The younger priest behaved himself with great com-
mand of his passion, and was really an example of a
serious well governed mind; at his firstcoming on board
the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating
himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, in which I
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really think-
ing he had been in a swoon $ but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a few moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks
also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only
left him, but kept others from interrupting him also;
he continued in that posture about three minutes, or
a little more4 after I left him; then came to me, as he
said he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, given him, and so many miserable
creatures their lives. I told him, I had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: but I added,
that it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and th^t we had as much reason as he
to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to
make us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his
creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to hi&coun-
try-folks, laboured to compose them; persuaded, in-
treated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost
to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with some he had success, though others were, for a-
time, out of all government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps
it may be useful to those into whose hands it may fall,
in the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies of
their passions; for if an excess of joy can carry men
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what will not the extravagancies of anger^ rage, and
a provojced mihd, carry us to? And indeed, her.e I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding strict watch over Qur pa&
fions
lions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction,
as those of sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagancies
among our new guests for the first day; but when they
had been refreshed, lodgings provided for them as well as
our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, as
most of them did, being fatigued and frightened, they
were quite another fort of people the next day.
Notning of good manners, or civil acknowledgments
for the kindneis shewn them was wanting; the French,
tis known, are naturally apt enough to exceed that way.
The captain, and one of the priests, came to me the
next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my ne-
phew, the commander, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and first they told us, that, as
we had saved their lives, ib all they had was little
enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the
flames; and if we would accept it, they were ordered to
make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they
might get a passage to France,
My nephew was for accepting their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards.;
but i over-ruled him in that part, for I knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a stave at the Brafils, as I
had been at Barbary, the being fold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cafes, a much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was
our duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them, but what we believed they would have done
for us if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
tfut that we took them up to serve them not to plunder
them;
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on more, and leave them.;
that this would be first to save them from death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and therefore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them ; as to setting
them on shore, I told them indeed, that was an exceed-
ing great difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East-Indies, and though we were driven out of our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
was directed by heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was, to
put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West-Indies, and get them
passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thankful fbr it; but
they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East-
Indies; they then intreated me, that seeing I was driven
so far to the westward before 1 met with them, I would
at least keep on the same course to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ship or stoop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part; and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole company to the
East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity to
the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voy-
age by devouring all our provisions; ib I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen acci-
dent made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no
one could fay we were to blame; for the laws of God
and nature would have forbid, that we mould refuse
<o take up two boats full of people in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing as well re-
specting
ipecting ourselves, as the poor people, obliged us to fee
them on shore somewhere or other, for their deliver-
ance \ so 1 consented that we would carry them to New-
foundland, if wind and weather would permit; and, if
not, that I would cawry them to Martinico in the West-
Iadies.
The wind continued fresli easterly, but the weather
pretty good, and as it had Wowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
several opportunities of sending them to France; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been
ib long beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no paikngers for fear of wanting provisions for the
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they mould
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land, where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
tQ put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to
France, if they could get provision to victual themselves
with: when, I fay, all the French went on more, I
should remember, that the young priest I spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Coromandel: 1 readily agreed to that, for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason,
as will appear afterwards; also four of the seamen
entered themselves in our snip, and proved very useful
fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West-
Indies, steer.^g away S. and S. by E. for about 20 days
together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when we
met with another subject for our humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N.
and the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we espied
a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon perceived
it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us; but
could not at first know what to make of her, till, after-
coming a Little nearer, we found she had lost her main*
top-mast fore-mast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fires
sites a gun as a signal of distress the weather was pf etty
good, wind at N.'N1. Wv a-fresh gale,' and we soon came
to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, botffrtt home from
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at Bar-
bid^oes, a few days "before she was1' ready to fail, by a
terrible rmrricarie\ \vhile the daptain and chief mate
$#ere both gone on shore; so thatbeside the terror of the
ilorra, they were but in an indifferent cafe for good
artists to bring the ship home: they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the -hurricane was over, which had blown
therh qtite out of their knowledge to the westward,
and^in which they lost their masts, as above ; they told
•us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the south-east, by a
strong gale of wind at N. N. W. the fame that blew
now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a
main-course, and a kind of square sail upon a jury fore-
mast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the
Canaries,
But that which was worst of al!, was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone: their bread and fleih was quite
gone, they had not an ounce left in the {hip, and had
had none for eleven days: the only relief they had, was,
their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
ban el of flour left; they had sugar enough; some
iuccades or sweetmeats they had at first, but they were
devoured, and they had seven calks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to fail, unhappily came onboard
the evening before the hurricane began : and, having a#
provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such%n extreme necessity themselves, ha4 no
compassion, we* may be" sure, for the poor passenger? •*
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe.
vol. i\. B I had
I had perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity
taUhttoi-ied me,/the -weather being fair, and the wind
afcatsdi *o go on board the stiip: the second mate, who
t&jpon/'th}s occasion commanded the ship, had been on
boafd Our ship: and he told me indeed, that they had
three^passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a
.4tfplor4ble condition; nay, fays he, I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
4ays: and I was afraid to enquire after them, said he,
for I had nothing to relieve them with.
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relief we could spare; and indeed I had so far over-ruled
things with my nephew, that I would have victualled
tfhetn, though we had gone away to Virginia, or any
part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves;
but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were
afraid of eating too much, even of that little we gave them;
the mate or commander brought fix men with him in his
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were so we^k, they could hardly lit to their oars: the
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went
share and ihare alike with them in every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before
him immeciately, and he had not eaten three mouthfuls
before he began to be siclc, and out of order; so he stopt
awhile, and our Surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said would be to him both sooef
andphysick; and after he had taken it, he grew better:
in the mean time, I forgot not the men; I orderM
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather
devoured than eat it; they were so exceeding hungry*
that they were in a manner ravenous, and Had no com-
mand ot themselves; and two of them eat with so much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the
next inorning. ,
The fight of these peoples distress was very moving
to me,, ajid.brought to mind what I had a terrible pros-
pect of at my first coming on shore in my island, where
I had not the least mouthful of food, or any hopes of
procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had
of being made the food of other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
df my thought the story he, had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabin (viz) the siather* her
ion, and the maid servant, whom he had heard nothing
of for two or three days; and whom he seemed to con-
fess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all; and that therefore they
must be perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the
floor or desk of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men to refresh them, so I also
forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and with
my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,
and four orfive pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the mens
taking it to eat raw or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little
at a time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the fame time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and fee in what condition the poor passen-
gers were in, and if they were alive, to comfort them and
give them what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared broth
which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually*
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above,
having a great mind to see the scene of misery, which I
knew the strip itself would present me withf in a more
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took the
captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after hi thefr boat.
I found the poor nien on board almost in a tumult
to get the victuals out of the boiler beforelt was reacly*
but my mate observed his order, and kept a good
guard at the cook-room doof; and the man he
B 2 placed
place4 there, after using ail possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused
itime biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave them every one one, to stay their
stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and officers with me, and with
-good words, and iome threats also of giving them no
more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-
room "by force, and tore the meat out of the fux'nace;
'for words indeed are of a very small force to an hungry
belly: however we pacified them, and fed them gradu-
ally and cautiously for the first time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last silled their bellies, and the
men did well enough.
But*the misery of the poop passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first,
the ship's company had so little for themselves, it was
-but too true, that they had at first kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had ho
food at all, and for several days before, very little,
The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was
a woman of good fense, and good breeding, had spared
all stie could get so affectionately for her son, that at last
ihe entirely sunk unde. it r and when the mate of our
ship, went in, she sat upon the-floor x>r deck, with her
back up against the sides, hetween two chairs, which
were lashed fast, and her head funk in between her moul-
ders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate
said all he cotild to revive and encourage her, and with
&flJ>©on put some hroth into her mouth ; ilie opened her
lfpS, and lifted up one hand, "but could not speak; yet
ihe understood what he said, and made signs to him, in-
timating, that It was too late for her; but pointed to
her child, as as she would Ivave said, they fli««M take
care of him. ,
However the mate, who was exceedingly moved with
t)ie. sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her
ihouth j a$d, as he said, got two or three spoorifuls down,
though
though I question whether he could be sure of it or not:;
but it was too late, and she died the fame night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most:
affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay
in a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him; he had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him some time after, but two or
three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again,.
But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along
upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that
had fallen down with an apoplexy, and straggled for
life; her lirribs were distorted, one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped it
so hard, that we could not easily make her let it-go; her
other arn lay over her head, and her feet lay both to-
gether, set fa.fl against the frame of the cabuvtable; in
'short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death;
an 1 yet file was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as tfie men
told us afterwards, was brokenrhearted for her mistress,
whom flie saw dying two or three days before, and
whom {lie loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do, with this poor girl; for when
-©iir surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge
and experience, and with great application recovered her
as to life, he had her upon his hand as to her feafes, for
-flie- was little less than distracted £or.a. coniiderable tnfce
after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
sired to consider, that vi^ts at sea are riot like a Jour-
ney into the country, where sometimes people ftay^i
week or a fortnight at a place. Our business T^as1 fe>
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but hot*Tie By for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some dnys^ yet we* could dtrry no
fail to keep pace with a ship that had no ^mafts j1 how-
ever, as thek captain begged of ut to help Kihi ttfTetrup
B 3( amain*
a. main top-mast, arid a kind of top-mast to hisjury-
f Ore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or
fourdays, and then having given him five barrels of beef
and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of
pens, flour, and what other things we could fpaie; and
taking three casks of sugar and some rum, and some
pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them,
taking on board with us, at their own earnest reqnest,
the youth, and the maid, and all their goods
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
dejected with the loss of his mother, and as it seems,
had lost his father but a few months before at Bar-
badoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out of the ship; for he said, the cruel fellows
liad murdered his mother; and indeed so they had, that
is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her life, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no jus-
tice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and. capable
of no companion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put
him perhaps in as bad circumstances almost, as we
found them in; that is to fay, starving in the world.
He said he matered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among:
that the Captain (by which he meant me, for he could
know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, and
lie was sure would not hurt him; and as for the maid, he
was sure, is me came to herself, she would be very thank-
ful for it, let us carry them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we tcok them both on board with all their
goods, except eleven hogshead3 of sugar, which could
not be removed, or come at; and as the youth had a
bill of lading for them, Tmade his commander fign a
writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bris-
tol, to one mt. Rogers* a merchant there, to whom the,
youth said lie was related, and to deliver a letter which
1 TOfote to tint, arid all the goods he had belonging to the
deceased
r o 6 x n s otf rws a& 3 r
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn, that .the'ship came to Bristol; but-
was, as is moil probable, lost at sea,, being in so disables.
a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opi-v
nion, the first storm she met with afterwards, she-might-
founder in she sea; for she was leaky, and. had damage
in her hold when I met with her.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and had
hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, tho' at
first the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-*
body with the little incidents of windsr weather, cur-
rents, &c. on the rest of our voya e; but shortening;
my story for the fake of what is to follow, shall observe
that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th
of April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I
found the place; for as I came to it, and went from it
before, on the south and east side of the island, as com-
ing from the Brazils,, so now coming in between the main
and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor
any land mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or
know whether I saw it or no*
We beat about a great while, and went on Ihore on
several islands in the mouth of the great riverOroonoque
but none for my purpose; only this I learned by ray
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake
before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw,
from the island I lived in, was really no continent, but
a long island, or rather a ridge of islands reaching.from,
one to the other fide of the extended mouth of that
great river; and that the savages who came to my island, •
were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other Barbarians of the fame kind, who
inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited'several ofthe islands to no purpose;
some I found were inhabited, and some were not. On
?n(j f?f tJfe!n'1 found some Spaniards,and thoughtthtsr
had lived there ;'but,1 speaking with them, found they
hada stoop lay in a small creek hard By* iijid that tJvey:
came thither to make salt, and catch some pmrl-wscles
is they could:; but they belonged to the .1% detrlni^
dad which lay farther north, in the latitude of io 4u*d
1 j degrees*
B 4 Thug
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which/we had found a convenient boat, and therefore
-kept her with their very good will, at length I came fair
on the south-fide of my island, and I presently knew the
* very countenance of the place; so I brought the ship
safe to an anchor, broadside wiih the little creek where
was my old habitation.
As scon as I saw the place, I called for Friday and
asked him, if he knew where he was? He loolced about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried; O yes, O
there, Oyes, O there, pointing to our old habitation, and
fella dancing and capering like a mad fellow, and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim asliorc to the place.
Well, Friday, said I, do you think we shall find any
bodv here or no? And what do you think, shall we see
vour father? The fellow stood mute as a stock a good
while; but when I named his father, the poor affectionate
creature looked dejected; and I could fee the tears run
down his face very plentifully. What is the matter Fri-
day, said I? Are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking bis head, no fee him
more,'no ever more fee again. Why so, said I Friday?
How do you know that? O no, O no, says Friday, he
long ago die; long ago he much old man. Well, well
said I, Friday, you don't know: bat shall we see any one
else then: the fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I,
and he points just to the hill above my old house; and
tho'we lay half a league off, he cries out Me fee! me
fee1 yes, ves, me fee much man there, and there, and
there; I looked, but I could fee nobody, no, not with a
perspective glass; which was, I suppose, because I could
Sot hit the place; for the fellow was right, as I found
upon enquiry the next day, and there were five or nx
men altogether stood to look at the Ihip, not knowing
what to think of us. ,
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I cauled
tbe English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns,,
to give them notice we were friends; and abour halt
a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoak rile
from the side of the creek; so I immediately orders
robiN*fan cxvsofi. %i
a Boat out, taking Friday withm^i^nd£)^n^inj^p^%^
white flag, or a flag of trace,, I wen f directs .o^Æ0|f;
taking with me the young frier I rqentidned> to/ijfeop|£
had told the whole story of my living, there,, and tm
manner of it, and every particular, both of my self,'and
those that I left there, and.who was on that account:
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about
sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any rjew
guest there which we did nos know of; but we had'jao
need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, ne^LrTijjjJi
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and she grji
man I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard whose lifel
had saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly well;
as to his habit, I ihall describe it afterwards I ordered
no body to go onshore at first but myself, but there was
no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate crea-
ture had spyed his father at a distance, a good way offof
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothi&g of Hira,_an4
if they had not let him go on stiore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner oh shore, but
he flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow.
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite os the
firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this
poor fellow's joy, when he came to his father; Jiqw he
embraced him, kissed him, stroaked his face, took him uj*.
in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would
look at a strange picture, for a quarter 6f an hour toge-
ther; then lay down upon the ground, andstroaked his
legs, and kissed them, and then got up again, and stared
at him,- one would have thought the fellow bewitched:
but itwQuld have made a dog laugh to fee how the next
day his passion ran out another way: in the morning', he
walked along the stiore, to and again, with his father
several hours, always leading him by the hand; as if
he had been a lady; and every now and then woald
come to, fetch something or other for him to the bOt
either a lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, ©rsome
thing or other that was good. In the afternoon his fro-
lics run another wav, for then he would set the old
man down upon the ground, and dance about him., and
B 5 made
34 ADVEST-T UHBS-" OF
made a thousand antic podures and gestures; and all
th£ #htie he did this, he would be talking to him, and
telling him ofce story or another of his travels, and of
whathad happened to him abroad, to divert him. In
short, if the fame filial affection was to be found in chrif--
tians to their parents, in our parts of the world, one
WOnld be tempted-to fay, there hardly would have been
any need of the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It
would be endless to take notieeof all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first
Spaniard, whom as I said,I knew very well, was he whose
life I saved; he came towards the boat, attended by one
more, carrying a flag of trace also; and he did not only
not know me at first, bnt he had no thoughts no notion,
of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him: Seig-
nior, said I in Portuguese, do you not know me? At which
he spoke not a word; but giving his musquet to the man
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying
something in Spanisti, that I did not perfectly hear,came
forward,and embraced me,telling me he was inexcusable,
not to know that face again, that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven, sent to save his life: he said a-
bundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spa-
niard always knows how; and then beckoning to the
person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me, if I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
liouse again, and where I should see there had been but
mean improvements ; so I walked along with him; but
alas! I could no more find the place again, than if I had
never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to
one another, in ten years time they were grown so big,
that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such
windings and blind ways, as they themselves only who
made them could find.
I afksd them, what put them upon all these fortifica-
tions? He told me, I would fay there was need enough
of it, when they had given an account how they had
pa#d their time since their arriving in the island, espe-
cially asttr they had the misfortune to find, that I was
gene: he told me he could?not ha^ic but feme/atisfftc-r.
tioa in my good fortr-ne, jwhen he beard that J w£9jg0B$-?
in a good ship, and to ray satisfaction ; and that he had
oftentimes a it rong persuasion, that one tinieor other he,
should see me again; but nothingf that ev^rfccsel hjnifs
m his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting toki*r%:
at first, as the disappointment he was under when kp.-
came back to the island, and found I was not there.
As to the three Barbarians (so he called them) that
were lefr behind, and of whom he said he had a long
story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
much berter among the savages, only that their number
was io small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and
with that he crossed himself upon the breast. But, Sir,
says ke, I hope you will not be displeased, when 1 shall
tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our
own preservation, to disarm them, and making them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers. I answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and no-,
thing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not comeback, that I might have put them in
possession of every thing first, and left the other in a state
of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced'
them to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from
finding any fault with it; for I knew they were a parcel
of refractory ungovernable villains, and were fit for any
manner of mischief.
While I W3s faying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, and with him eleven men more: in the
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what na-
tion they were of; but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them,
said, These, Sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you ; and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which
they all came up one by one, not as if they had been:
sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really,
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and 3L
a monarch, or a great conqueror: their behaviour was
to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet
B6 mixed
3* AttVtflTVlUSS 5F
mixed with amanly, majestic gravity, which very well
became them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce*knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The-history of their coming to, and conduct in the
island, after my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the former part of my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in moll of the
particulars, refer to that account I have already given,
that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the
reading of those that come after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in
the first person, which will put me to the expence of
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's
and I told him's, and the like; jbut I shall collect the
facts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my
memory from what they related to me, and from what
I met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I left
the istand, and which the persons were in, of whom I
am to speak. A* first it is necessary to repeat, that I had
sent away Friday's father and the Spaniards, the two
whose lives I had rescued from the savages; I fay, I
had sent them away in a large canoe, to the main, as I
then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions
whom he had left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he had been in; and in or-
der to succour them for the present, and that, if possible
we might together find some way for our deliverance af-
terward.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance
©f, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance,
any more than I had twenty years before; much less had
I any foreknowledge of what after happened, I mean of
an English ship coming on shore there to fetch them off,
and it could not but be a very great surprise to them,
when they came back, not only to find that I was gone,,
but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of
all that I had left behind rae3 which would otherwise
have been their own.
The
R© S 1 .jSSgk** $% %$iS 0 E. 37
The first thing, himskee which I enduireji,imta>
that I ^might begin, where LM off, was of their own
part: and I desired he would give me a particular ic^
count of his voyageoack to his countrymen with'Ætie
boat, when I sent him,to fetch 4&em ovetv He tofd
me there was little variety in that part! for nothing re*
markable happened to them^on the way, they having
very calm* /weather, and a smooths sea; for his coun?
try men, it &6u3dnot be donbted, he said, but that they
w ere overjoy ed to 4ee hiih: (it seems he was the prin-
cipal man among them,,the captain of the vessel they
had been ihip wreck ed in, having been dead some time:)
They were, he said, the more surprised to see him, be-
cause they knew that he was fallen into the hands of
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him,
as they*did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he
told them the story of the deliverance, and in what
manner he, was furnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them: and. their astonishment, they
said, was something like that of Joseph's; brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the
story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but when
he shewed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he brought them for their journey
or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just: share of the joy of their, deliverance, and imme-
diately prepared to come .away with him.
Their first business was to g&t canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick 1k> much upon the honest
part of it, but to trespass upon .their friendly savages,
and to borrow two lar 3 e canoes or periagua's on pre-
tence of going out a* siihing, or for pleasure, .
.. In these they came away the next mornings xt seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they
had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, °^ any
thing in the world, but what .they hadjon, them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bcead.
They were in all three weeks absent, and in that
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other^ part, and
.tyjget off from the island; leaving three of tkfe mbft
impudent, hardened, imgoverned difegreeaile .villains #
behind
3« A D^ JE NT f:R:E S 3CBfc
behi»4 ll^> t*1*** anymaft couW ikiire $o meet with, *©f
the poor Spaniard* gr^at. grief .and disappointment?
you may be sure.
The only just thing. t&e rogues did, was, that when-
the Spaniards came on stu>re^ they *ga¥e my letter to
theray;and gave them pro iioii% and other relief, as £
had ordered them todo; sdsothey gave them the long
paper of directions, which I had left with, them, con-
taining the particular methods which Ltookfor man agin g
every part ot my life there, the way how I baked my
bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my core,
how I cured my grapes, made my pot*, and, in a word,
every thing I did; all this being written down, .they
gave to the Spaniards, two of whom understood English*
wttl enough; nor did they refuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very well
for some time, they gave them an equal admission into
the house, or cave, and they began to live very seciably;
and the head Spaniard, *ho had seen pretty much of my
method, and Friday's father together, managed all tluir
affairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing'
but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spa-
niards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this,-
would the other but have let them alpne; which,.how-
ever, they could not find in their hearts to do long ;^
but, like the dog. in t&e manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would not let others eat neither: the
differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, aneb
such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and;
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed, to com>
mon sense; and though it is true, the first relation of it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom Lmay call
the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,,
they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, If
must supply a defe& in my former relation; and this*
was, that I forgot to set down among the reft, that,
just as we were weighing the anchor so set Mi? there
hap.
happened a little quarrel on board Our stiip, whkh I was
afraid once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to bis assistance, parted them by force,
and making,two of the most refractory fellows prison-
ers, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active
in the former disorders* and let fall some ugly danger-
ous words the second time, he threatened to carry iliem
in irons to England, and have them hangei there for
mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other men in the ship ; and some
of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired, that I, who still.
passed for a great man among them, should go down
with the mate, and satisfy the men, ard tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had dons for the time past, should
be pardoned. So I went^ and after passing my Honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so,
when I caused the two men, who were in irons, to be
released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night, the wind also falling calm; next morning we
found, that our two men who had been laid in irons,
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wea-
pons; what powder or shot they had, we knew not;
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet
haled up, and run away with her to thek companions
in roguery on shore.
As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues; but they could neither find
them, nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods,
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their plantations, burnt all their houfiiold-stuff
and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but
having
having no order he let all alone, left every thing'"as
they found it, and, bringing- the pinnace away, came
on board without them. <
These two men made their number five, but the
other three villains were ib much wickeder than these,
that after they had been two or three days together,,
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they for a good while, be persuaded
to give tnem a^y food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first: on shore, the business
began to go forward; the Spaniards wjuld have per-
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their
two countrymen again, that, as they said, they might
be all one family ; but they would not hear of it : so
the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding
nothing but industry and application would make them
live comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore oflhe island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and.
especially some of the peas which I had left them, they
dug and planted, and inclosed, after the-pattern I had
set for them all, and began to live pretty well'; their first
crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was
hut a little bit of land which they had dug up at first,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and find them with bread and other eatables;
and one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of the
stiip, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations, as the rice, and the milk, and
such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in a little thriving posture, when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too^
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession of it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them
they
they ihouMbnild no houses aipon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them;
The two men thought they had jested at first,* and
^ike^them to come and fit down, and fee what fine
houses they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they demanded* and oneof them merrily told them,
if they we^e groundrlaiidlordsi he hoped, if they built
tenements upon the land* andmade improvements, they
would, according*to the customof all landlords, grant
them a long leases and bid them *go fetch a scrivener to
draw the writmgs.:One of the three, damning and raging,
told them, theyÆould seethey were not in a jest; and go-
ing to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals* he takes a fire-
brand, and cjasps it tothe outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt
•down in a few minutes^ if one of the two had not run to
the fellow, thrust him- away, and trod the fire out with
his feet, and that not without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he turned upon him with a pole
he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly j and run into the hut, he had ended
Ms days at once. His comrade, feeing the danger thdy
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately thejy
jeame both out with their musquets; and the man that
was first struck at with the pole, knocked the fellow
down, who began the quarrel, with the stock of their
musquet, and to at before the other two could come to
help him; .and then seeing the rest come at them, they
•stood together^ and presenting the other ends of their
pieces to them^ bade them stand off..
The other had fire-tarms with them too; but one of
the two honest men, bolder-than his- comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, if they offered to
move hand or foot, they were all dead men; and boldly
commanded them to lay dnwh their arms. They did
not indeed lay. down their arms; but, seeing him re-
solutes it brought them to^a parley, and they consented
£0 take their wounded man with them, and begone;
and indeed, k seems the fellow was wounded sufficient-
ly torith the blow ; however, they were much in the
wrong,
wrong, imce they had the advantage, that they did not
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them-
an account how the rogues had treated them; for the
three villains studied nothi&g but revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to croud.this pan with an account of the les-
ser part of tbeir rogueries, such as treading down their
corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat, which
the poor man had got to breed up tame for their store f
and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this
manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation^
that they resolved to Ught them all .three the first time
they had a fair opportunity. In order to this they re-
solved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my
old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together, at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to fee fair
play. So they got up in the morning before day, and
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before, two of theSpaniards,*
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two
Englishmen, whom,for distinction, I call the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of
the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
countrymen, and how they hackruined their plantations
and destroyed their corn, that theyihadlaboured so hard"
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kids, which was ail they had provided for their:
sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be
starved. VVhen the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in gentle and mannerly
terms, and asked them, how they could be so cruel,
they being harmless inoffensive fellows, and that they
were putting themselves in a way to subsist by their la-
bour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to
fcring things to such perfection as they had.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What
had they to do there? That they came on shore without
leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the
island; it was none of their ground. Why, fays the
Spaniard, very calmly, Seignior IngLese, they must not
starve. The Englishman replied, like a true ruff-hewn
tarpaulin, they might starve and be damn'J, they should
not plant, nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, Seignior, says the Spaniard? Another of the
brutes returned, do! d—n them, they should be servants,
and work for them. J5ut how can you expect that of
them? They are not bought with your money; yott
have no right to make them servants. The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given
it to them, and no man had any thing to do there but
themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that he
would go and burn all their new huts; they should
buikl none upon their land.
Why, Seignior, fays the Spaniard, by the fame rule
we must be your servants too. Ay, fays the bold dog,
and so you shall too, before we have done with you,
mixing two or three G — d d—rame's in the proper in-
tervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However, this little dis-
course had heated them; and starting up, one says to the
other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, come
Jack, let us go and have the other brush with them:
we will demolish their castle, I will warrant you; they
shall .-plant no colony in our dominions.
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity offered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand
them,as to know all the particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.
Whither they went or how they bestowed their time
that evening, the Spaniards said, they did not know*
but it seem they wandered about the country, part of
the night; and then lying down in the place which I
uledtocall my bovver, they were weary, and overflept
them-
themselves. The cafe was this: They had resolved to
stay till midnight, and so take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards, in-
tending to set fire to their huts while they were in theoi,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and as malice seldom sleeps very found, it
was very strange they would not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, tho' a much fairer one than that of
burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, be-
fore the bloody minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither and found the men gone,
Atkins, who it seems was the forwarded: man, called out
to his comrades, ha! Jack, here's the nest; but d—-n
them, the birds are flown: they mused awhile to think
what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad
so soon, and suggested presently, that the Spaniards hadj
given them notice of it; and with that they sliook
hands, and swore to one another, that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made
this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
mcns habitation; they did not set fire indeed to any
thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and pul-.
led them se> limb from limb, that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
, they stood; they tore all their little collected houfliold-
stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a
manner, that the poor men found, afterwards, some of
their things a mile off from their habitation.
When they had don;e this, they pulled up all the you rig
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up the
inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered every thing
as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done.
The two men were atthis juncture gone to find them out
and had resolved to fight them where ever-they had been
tho* they were but two to three: so that, had they met
there certainly would have been bloodshed among them;
for they were ail very stout, resolute fellows, to give
them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep the.n\asun-
der,
der, than they themselves eould do to meet• for, as"
they had dogged one another, when the three were gone
thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the
two went back to find them, the three were come to the*
old habitation again; we shall fee their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back, like furious
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they
had been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of
boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his
head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face,
fays he to him, And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the fame sauce, if you do not mend your manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong
well made man, looked steadily at him for a good
while• and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist, knock-
ed him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-ax, at which
one of the rogues insolent as the first, fired his pistol at
the Spaniard immediately; he missed his body indeed,
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt
than he really was, and that put him into some heat,
for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but now re-
solving to go through with his work, he stooped and
took the fellow's musquet whom he haa Knocked down,
and was just going to fhoct the man who had fired at
him; when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave^
came out, and calling him not to shoot, they stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and giving the
Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again,* but the Spaniards, considering the feud that wa%
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that
it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from one another, told them they would da them
no
#S AOrENTtfRBS OF
no harm; and if they would live peaceably they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they
did before; but that they could not think of giving them
their arms again, while they appeared so relbl ved to do
mischief with them to their ©wn countrymen, and had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
; The rogues were now more capable to hear reason
than to act reason; but being refused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threaten-
ing what they would do, though they had no fire arms:
but the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they mould take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them; and if they fell into their bands
alive, they would certainly be hanged. However this
was far from cooling them; but away they went, swear-
ing and raging like furies of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been
at their plantation, and finding it ail demolished and de-
stroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough; they could scarce have room to
tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange enough to find, that three
men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punish-
ment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed, made light of their threat-
eninga: but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them,
that they were already disarmed; they could not consent,
that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms,
and perhaps kill them: but, said the grave Spaniards
who was their governor, we will endeavour to make,
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us ; for, as
there is no doubt but liiey will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a full satisfaction for you; and
upon
U OB 18SON iCMiV S.0E. 47
wpon this condition we* hope you will promise to tise no
violence with them, other thanJn your defence* _•
The two Englishmen yielded to this very aukwarcHy*
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to
make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not so
many of us, here is room enough for us all, and it is
great pity we should not be all good friends. At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own
habitation was destroyed.
la about five days after the three vagrants* tired
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger, hav-
ing chiefly lived on turtles eggs all that while, came
back to the grove • and finding my Spaniard who, as
I have faid^ was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the fide of the creek; they came up in a
very submissive humble mannw, and begged to be re-
ceived again into the family. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted so unnaturally by
their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards) that they could not come to any conclu-
sion with* ut consulting the two Englishmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them* and dis-
course about it, and they should know in half an hour*
It may be guessed, that they were very hard put to it;
for It seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged he would send them out some bread
in the mean time ; which he did, and feat them at the
same time a large piece of goat Vflefh, and a broiled
parrot; which they eat very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called inf
and a long debate :had about them, their tw© country-
men charging the^n with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which *hey owned
before, and therefore could not deny now; upon the
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the tjaree* while they were naked and unarmed,
so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
fellows two huts? one to be of the seme ^menfions,
and
and the other larger than they were before; also to fence
their ground again, where they had pulled up the fences,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it j
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state
as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could
net be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live
pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only that these
three fellows could never be persuaded to work ; I mean
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased ; however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study in the whole the good of the plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
liv^d pretty well together for a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and gave them liber-
ty to g® abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesome as before; but however,
an accident' happened presently upon this* which en-
dangered the safety of them all; they were obliged to
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preser-
vation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard governor,
as I call him, that is to fay, the Spaniard whose life I
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the
nights, and could by no means-get any sleep: he was
perfectly- well in -body, as he told me the story, only
found hrs thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon
men fighting, and killing one another, but was broad
awake, and cauld not by any means get any steep; in
short, he lay a great while; but growing more and more
uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay, being so many
of them, upen goat-skins, laid thick upon such couches
and pads as they made for themselves, and not in ham-
mocks
mocks and {hip-beds, as I did, who was but ene; so
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise,but
to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat,
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could fee little or nothing; and besides, the trees
which I had planted, as in my former account is describ-
ed, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his
fight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was
a clear star-light night; and, hearing no noise, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not steep, nor could he compose himself to any
thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them waked,
and, calling, asked who it was that was up? The go-
vernor told him, how it had been with him: Say you
so? says the other Spaniard; such things are not to be
flighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working, says he, near us; and presently he aiked him,
Where are the Englishmen? They are alt in their huts>
says he> safe enough. It seems, the Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a place,
where the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
reft. Well, fays the Spaniard, there is something in it,
I am persuaded from my own experience; I am satisfied
our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive in-
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we know how to make use of it.
Come, says he, let us go out and look abroad; and i£
we find nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you o£
justice of my proposing it.
^ In a word, they went out to go to the top of the
hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling it
up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
Vol. II. C were
were going round through the grove unconcerned and
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light,
as of fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing
the yokes of men, not of one, or two, but of a great
number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages land-
ing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
them making the least discovery of there being any in-
habitant upon the place ,• and when by any necessity
they came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that
they that got away, were scarce able to give any ac-
count of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible, nor
did ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one
else, except it were the three savages in our last en-
counter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mention-
ed, that I was afraid they should go home, and bring
more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of
those men, that so great a number came now together;
or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not it
seems understand ; but whatever it was, it had been their
business, either to have concealed themselves, and not
have seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen, that there were any inhabitants in the place;
but to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not a
man of them mould have escaped, which could only
have been by getting in between them and their
boats; but this piefence of mind was wanting to them,
which was the ruin of their tranquility for a great
while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor, and the
man with him, surprised with this fight; ran back imme-
diately, and raised their fellows, giving them an account
of the imminent danger they were all in; and they again
as readily took the alarm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close within where they were, but
that they must ail run out "to see how things stood
While it was dark indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough for some hours, to
view them by the light of three fires, they had made
at some di#ance from one another j what they were
doing,
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not; for, first, the enemy were too many ; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation atthia
sight: and as they found, that the fellows ran straggling
all over the shore, they made no doubt, but, first or last,
some of them w«uld chop in upon their habitation, er
upon some other place, where they would see the^tokens
of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been
little less than starving them, if they should have been
destroyed; so the firstthing they resolved upon, was to
dispatch three men away before it was light, viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, i£
need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages altogether in one
body, and at a distance from their conoes, they resolv-
ed, if there had been and hundred of them, t@ have at-
tacked them; but that could not be obtained, for,
they were some of them two miles off from the other,
and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different
nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and beaten their brains in considering their
present circumstances; they resolved at last, while, it
was dark, to fend the old savage (Friday'sfather) out,
as a spy, to learn, if possible, something concerning
them, as what they came for, and what they intended
to do, and the like ; the old man readily undertook
it, and, stripping himself, quite naked, as most of
the savages were, away he went: after he had been.
gone an hour or two, he brings word, that he had been
among them undiscovered, that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war
with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were by mere chance
landed in the fame island, for the devouring their
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming so by
-ehance to the fame place, had spoiled all their mirth;
C z that
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were
so near, that he believed they would fight again, as soon
&s day-light began to appear ; but be did not perceive,
that they had no notion of any body's being on the
iiland but themselves. He had hardly made an end of
telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were
•engaged in a bloody fight.'
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he
told them, their safety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pre-
vail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they
•must run out .and fee the 'battle: however, they used
some caution, viz. they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling, but wrent farther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might se-
curely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought
not to be seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did
see them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce, and if I might believe
the Englislimen, one of them said, he could perceive,
that some of them were men of great bravery, of invin-
cible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the fight.
The battle, they said, held two hours,, before they
could guess which party would be beaten; but then
•that party which was nearest our people's habitation,,
began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
ibme of them began *o fly; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, lest any of those that fled
should run into the grove, before their dwelling, for
ihelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the places
and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this #iey resolved, that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever
came into the grove, they stiould sally out over the
wall, and kill them; so that, if possible, not one stiould
return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that
it should be doae with 'their swords, or by knocking
thera
K OB IKS ON C R US Q E. ft
flierst down with the stock of th^ musquet, not by shoot-
ing them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
-As they expected, it fell out; three of the routed
army fled for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter; the
(bout they kept to look abroad, gave notice of this-
within, wSth this addition, to our men's great satis-
faction, viz. That the conquerors had not pursued,
them, or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would'nos
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but, sending three
men out by the top of thehiil, ordered them to go round,
and come in behind them, surprize and take'them pri-
soners, which was done; the residue of the conquered-
people fled to their canoes, and got off to sea: the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a body together, gave two great
screaming shouts, which they supposed were by way
of triumph, and so the %ht ended j and the same da.y,*
about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched?
to their canoes, and thus the Spaniards had their island:
again free to themselves, theirfright was over, ani they
saw no savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den; and, viewing the field of battle, they found
about two and thirty dead men upomthe spot; some
were killed with" great long arrows, several, of which
were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them
were killed with their great wooden swords, fifteen or
seventeen of whkh they found in the field of battle,
smd as many bows, with a great many arrows; these
swords were great unweildy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them: most of those men that
were killed with them^ had their heads mashed to pieces,
as we may fay, or, as we -call it in English, their brains
knocked out, andfeveral of their arms and legs broken;
so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible rage and
fury; they found not one wounded man that was not
stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy till they
Have quite killed them, or they carry all the wounded
mm, that are not quite dead, away with them.
C3 This
This deliverance tam^d our Englishmen for a great
wh.le; the fight had filled them with horror, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, especi-
ally upon supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of those creatures; who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them f<5r food, as we
kill our cattle. And they professed to me, that the
thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had
something in it s© horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and
silled their minds with unusual terror, that they were
not ihe mi elves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the^three English brutes I
have been speaking of; and for a gTeat while after
they were very tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country; but some time aster this, they fell all into
such simple measures a^ain as brought them into a great
cieal of trouble.
They had taken thr^e prisoners, as 1 had observed;
and these three being lusty flout young fellows, they
made them servants, and taught them to work for them,
and, as slaves they did well enough; but they did not
take their measures with them as I did by^ my man Fri-
day, viz. to begin with them upon the principle of hav-
ing saved their lives, and then instructed them in the ra-
tional principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing
and reducing them by kind usage, and affectionate ar-
guings; but, as they gave them their food everyday,
so they gave them their work.too, and kept them fully
employed in drudgery enough; but, they failed in this
by it, that they never had them to assist them and fight
for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
jne as the* very flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part; being all now good
friends (for common danger, as I said above, had
effectually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the first thing that came
under their consideration was, whether seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to
their advantage, they should not rather remove their ha-
bitation, and plant in some more proper place for their *
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and
corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived, that
they should not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear from
their governor again, meaning me: and if I fhoulcssend
any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on
that side, where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and
we were gone, and so our supply would go away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper to both, and where indeed there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they al-
tered one part of that resolution too, and resolved only
to remove part of their cattb thither, and plant part of
their corn there; and so, if one part was destroyed, the
other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they
used, which it was very well they did,, viz. That they
never trusted these three iavages, which they had taken
prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they haij
there; much less of the cave there, which they kept in
cafe of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they car-
ried also the two barrels of powder, which I had. left
them 3t my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet thgy agreed, that as I had carefully co-
vered it first with a wall or fortification, and then with
a grove of frees; so, seeing their safety consisted en-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
fully convinced; they set to work te.cover and conceal
the place yet more effectually than before: to this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all giew to be trees) for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartment, they
went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest of
that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set*
C4 quite
«|uite down to the side of the creek, where, as I said* *
landed my floats, and even in the very ouze where:
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabouts; these stakes also, being of a wood very
forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took
care to have generally very much larger and taller than
those which I had planted, and placed them so very thick
and close, that when they had been three or four year*
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any conside-
rable way into the plantation . as for that part which I
had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh; and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it flood like a pali-
sado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to im-
possible to penetrate it, but with a little army, to cut it
all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the fame by all the
ground to the right hand, and to the left, and round
even to the top of the hill; leaving no way, not so
much as for themselves to come out, but by the ladder
placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up>
and placed again from the first stage up to the top;
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it, could come at
them.
This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less
than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has au5-
thority of providence to justify it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction of providence to set it to work; and, would
we listen carefully to the voice of it, I am fully persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives
are now by our own negligence subjected to. But this
by the way.
I return to the story: They lived two years after this
in perfect retirement, and had no more visits from the
savages ; they had indeed, an alarm given them one
morning, which put them in a great consternation;
for, some of the Spaniards being out early one
uaoramg on the west iide, or rather end of the island,
which*
which, by the way, was that end where I never went, for
fear of being discovered, they were surprized with seeing
above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough ; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they
kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night, to make observation : but they had the good luck
te be mistaken; for whenever the savages went, they
did not land at that time on the island, but pursued
some other design.
^ And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen ; one of which, a most turbulent fellow, being 14
a rage at one of the three staves, which I mentioned
they had taken, because the fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seemed a little un-
tractable in his shewing him, drew a hatchet but of a
frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon
the poor savage, not to correct: him, but to kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the
fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed
at his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he
thought he had [cut the poor creature's arm off, ran
to him, and intreating him not to murder the poor man,
clapt in between him and the savage, to prevent the
mischief. -
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage,- which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were work*
ing in the field about the corn-land) knocked the brute
down: Another of the Englishmen, running at the
lame time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
Gown; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
man, and a third Englishman fell upon them.- They had
none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
5 1 °2C ° my oId rusty cutl*sses, with which he made
at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both: This fray
ietthe whole family in an uproar, and more help coming;
in, they took the three Englilhmen prisoners. The next
question was* whatsliouW be done with them i They had
c 5 been
been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate,
and so idle withal, that they knew hot what course to
take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest:
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man;
so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor,told them in so many
words, that if they had been his own countrymen, he
would have hanged them all; For all laws, and all gover-
nors, were to preserve society ; and those who were dan-
gerous to the society, ought to he expelled out of it; but,
as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their pre-
servation and deliverance, he would use them with all
poilible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of
ihe other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said,
they desired it might not be left to them; for, says 4ie,
I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows; and
with that gives an account, how Will Atkins, one of
the three, had proposed to have all the five Englishmen
join together, and murder all the Spaniards, when they
were in their steep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to
Will Atkins: How, Seignior Atkins, fays he, Will you
murder us all? , What have you to lay to that? That
"hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he
said it was true, and G— d—mn him they would do
at still before they had done with them. Well, but
Seignior Atkins, said the Spaniard, What have we
done to you, that you would kill us? And what would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to pre-
vent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you kill
us ? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior
Atkins ? fays the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by^ three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider se-
riousty what was to be done. The two Englishmen and the
Spaniard, who saveci the poor savage? were of the opinion,
Tha
That they should hang one of the three for an example
to the rest; and that particularly it should be he that
had twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet,
and indeed there was some reason to believe he had done
it, for the poor savage was in/uch a miserable condition
with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said; No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them; nay, he said, if he had
been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to speak, it should be, that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spa-
niard that there was no gainsaying it; and, as merciful
councils are most apt to prevail, where they are so ear-
nestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was
to be considered, what should be done to keep them from
the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and
all, that means were to be used for preserving the so-
ciety from danger,: After a long debate it was agreed,
first. That they should be disarmed, and not permitted
to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they could, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards
or English, should converse with them, speak with them,
or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a c&rtain- diitance of the place
where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to com-
mit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill or destroy any
of the corn ,planting, buildings, fences, or cattle belong-
ing to the society, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them wherever they could find them.
The governor, a man of great humanity,, musing up-
on the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn-
ing to the two honest Englishman, said, hold; you must:
reflect, that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
catth of their own, and they must not starve; we must,
therefore allow them provisions. So he caused to be ad-
ded, That they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and for feed to sow, fyr
which time the; might be supposed to raift some t)f their
C6 cwn$,
«©wn; that they mould have fix milch-goats, four he-
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present sub-
•Jistence, as for a store; and that they mould have tools
given ttiem for their work in the field; such as, fix
liatehet*, an axe, a saw; and the like: But they should
liave none of these tools or provisions, unless they would
swear solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any of
the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shift for themselves. They went away
sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away,
or to stay ; but, as there was no remedy, they went pre-
tending to go and chuse a place where they should set-
tle themselves, to plant, and live by themselves; and
Some provisions were given, but no weapons.
About four or five days after, they came again for
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked ourselves out
an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient
place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in
my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to surround
the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my first habitation,
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees
growing already to the three sides of it: so that by
planting others, it would be very easily covered from
the sight, unless narrowly searched for; they desired
some dry goat-lkins for beds and covering, which were
given them; and upon their giving ^ their words, that
they would not disturb the rest, nor injure any of their
plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare ; some pease, barley, and rice,
for sowing, and, in a word, anything they wanted,
but arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had got in their first harvest, though the quantity
was but small, the parcel of land they had planted be-
ing but little ; for indeed, having all their plantation to
form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
aad when they came to make boards aad pots, and such
things,
tilings, they were quite out of their element, and could
rnake nothing of it; and when the rainy season came
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep
their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much, so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a great hole in the fide of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn, and
other things from the rain; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments m it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation,
a new frolick took these rogues, which, together with
the former villainy they had committed, brought mis-
chief enough upon them, and had very near been the
ruin of the whole colony; the three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they
led, and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the Continent, from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them do the laborious part of the
work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone
no farther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing
"but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the
event ; and, if I may give my opinion, they seemed to
be under a blast from heaven for; if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we re-
concile the events of things with divine justice ? It was
certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mu-
tiny and piracy, that brought them to the state they
were in; and, as they shewed not the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding
a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps could not
understand to do what he was directed ; and to wound
him in such a manner, as no question, made him a
cripple all iris life; and in a place where no surgeon
or medicine could be had for his cure; and, what wag
$ill work, the murderous intent ,• or, to 4o justice to
the
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure
it was, as was afterwards the formed design they al!
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
sleep.
But I leave observing, and return ta the story: The
three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and, in very humble terms- desired to be admitted to
speak with them: the Spaniards very readily heard
what they had to fay, which was this: that they were
tired of living in the manner they did; that they were
not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted;
and that, having no help, they found they should be
starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to
take one of the canoes w^ich they came over in, and
give them arms and ammunition, proportioned for their
defence, they would go over to the main, and seek their
fortune, and so deliver them from the trouble of sup-
plying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them*
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain
destruction they were running into; told them, they had
suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that
they would be starved or murdered; and bade them
consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved
if they staid here, for they could not work, and would
not work : and they could but be starved abroad; and
and if they were murdered, there was an end of them,
they had no wives or children to cry after them; and,
in short, insisted importunately upon their demand, de-
claring that they would go, whether they would give
them any arms or no*
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that
if they wTere resolved to-go, they should not go like naked
men, and be in no Condition to defend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare their fire arms, having
not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have
two mufquets, a pistol, and a cutlace,. and each man a
hatchet, which they thought sufficient for them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, and^given
thcmas.much goat's ilefh as they could eat while it was
swe^t:
sweet, and a great baiket-full of dried grapes, a pot full
of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they bold-
ly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where
it was at least forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried 15 or 20 men; and therefore was rather
too big for them to manage; but as they had a fair
breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well
enough: they had made a mast of a long pole, and a,
fail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed
or laced together; and away they went merrily enough;
the Spaniards called after th*m, Bon Veajo; and no
man ever thought of seeing them any more.
The Spaniards would often fay to one another, and
the two honest Englishmen who 1 emained behind, how
quiet and comfortably they lived, now those three
turbulent fellows were gone ; as for their ever coming
again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
could be imagined; when behold, after 22 days ab-
sence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his
planting-work, fees three strange men coming towards
him at a distance, two of them with guns upon their
shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched,
and became frighted and amazed to the governor Spa-
niard, and tells them they were all undone, for there
were strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell
who: the Spaniard pausing a while, fays to him, how
do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are savages
to be sure. No, no, says the Englishmen, they are men
in cloathes^ with arms: Nay then, fays the Spaniard,
why are you concerned } If they are not savages, they
must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon,
earth, but will do us good rather than harm.
While they were debating thus, came the three Eng-
lishmen, and, standing without the wood, which was
new planted, hallooed to them; they presently knew
their voices, and so ail the wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another
question, viz. What could be the matter, and what made
them come back again.
. It was not long before they brought the men in; and
enquiring where they had beea7 and what they had been
doing?
doiftg f They gave them a full account of their voyage,'«
in a rew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bowstmd arrows to
light them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to
the northward 6 or 7 hours, till they came to a great-
opening, by which they perceived that the land they
saw from our island was not the mum, but an island;
that entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand north, and several more west;
and, being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to
one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
ihore; that they found the people were courteous and
friendly to them, and they gave them several roots, and
some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply
them with any thing they could get for them to eat, and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days, and enquired, as
well as they could of them by signs, what nations were
this way, and that way; and were told of several
-fierce and terrible people, that lived almost every way;
who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said that they never
cat men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then they owned, that they made a great
feastt and eat their prisoners.
TheEnglilhmen enquired, when they had a feast of that
kind; and they told them, two moons ago, pointing
to the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their
great king had 200 prisoners now, which he had taken
in his war; and they were feeding them to make them
fat for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous to fee those prisoners ; but the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of
th#m, to carry away for their own eating, - So they
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting; of the sun,
and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at fun rising, they would bring ^some
for them; and accordingly, the next morning, they
brought down five women, and eleven men; and gave
them to the Englislimen, to carry with them on their
voyage,
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town, to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this fight, and they did not know
what to do; to refuse the prisoners, would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that offered them;
and what to do with them they knew not; however,
upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and,
in return, they gave the savages that brought them one
of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven
of their bullets, which, though they did not understand,
they seemed extremely pleased with; and then, tying
the poor creatures hands behind them, they (the people)
dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men:
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited
the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave with all the respects
and thanks that could well pass between people, where
on one side, they understood not one word they could
fay, they put off with their boat, and came back to-
wards the first island, where, when they arrived, they
set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many of them for their occasion.
la their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prisoners, but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they could
fay to them, or give them, or do for them, but was look-
ed upon as going about to murder them; they first of
all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at
that, especially the women, as if they had just felt the
knife at their throats ; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the fame
thing; then they concluded it was for fear they should
fink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill : if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party pre-
sently concluded, it was to fee whether he ar she was fat-
test and fittest to kill first j nay, after they hac$ brought
them
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make
a dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them, where their new family was. And being
told that they had brought them on more, and put them
Into-one of their huts, and were come to beg some
victuals for them; they (the Spaniards) and the other
two Englishmen, that is to fay, the whole colony resol-
ved to go all down to the place, and see them, and did
so, and Friday's father with them.
When they came into the hut, there they fat all bound;
for when they had brought them on shore, they bound
their hands, that they might not take the boat and
make their escape; there, I say, they sat, all of them
stark-naked: first, there were three men, lusty comely
fellows, well shaped, strait and fair limbs, about 30 or
3^ years of age, and five women, whereof two might
be from 30 to 40, two more not above.24 or 25; and the
fifth, a tall comely maiden, about 16 or 17: the wo-
men were well favoured agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfect white, would have passed for handsome wo-
men, even in London itself,having very pleasant agreea-
, ble countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, espe-
cially when they came afterwards to be cloathed, and
dressed as they called it, tho' that dress was very indif-
ferent, it must be confessed ,* of which hereafter.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were ^ (to give them a just cha-
racter) men of the best behaviour, of the most calm, se-
date tempers, and perfect good humour that ever I met
with; and in particular, of the most modesty, as will
presently appear: I say, the sight was very uncouth, to
fee three naked men, and five naked women, all toge-
ther bound, and in the most miserable circumstances
that human nature could be supposed to be, viz. to be
expecting every moment to be dragged out, and have
. their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty. t
The first thine they did was to cause the old Indian,
Friday *
Friday's father, to go in, and fee first if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their speech:
as soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them, neither could any of
them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one of the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them, that the men into whose hands they
were fallen were Christians, that they abhorred eating of
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed ; as soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a joy, and by such aukward and several
ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to be
servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away, to save their lives ? At which they all fell a
dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their
ihoulders, to intimate, that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women
among them would presently be attended with some
inconveniency, and might occasion some strife, and per-
haps blood, alked the three men, what they intended to
do with these women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as servants, or as women. One of the
Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said,
I am not going to restrain you from it; you are your own
masters as to that: but this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these women, as
a woman, or wife, he shall take but one; and that
having taken one, none else should touch her ; for tho'
we cannot marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable,
that while you stay here, the woman any of you takes,
should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
should be his wife; I mean, fays he, while he continues
here ; and that none else should have any thing to do
with her. AU this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty. Then
Then the Englishmen alked the Spaniards, if they de±-
figned to take any of them? But every one answered,
no: some of them said they had wives in Spain, and
the others did not like women that were not Christians;
and altogether declared, that they would not touch one
of them; which was an instance of such virtue, as I
have not met with in all my travels: ort the other
hand, to be short, the five Englishmen took them every
one a wife; that is to fay, a temporary wife; and so they
set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's father* lived in my old habitation, which they had
enlarged exceedingly within ,• the three servants, which
they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived
with them; and these carried on the main part of the
colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could,, or as they found neces-
sity required..
But the wonder of this story was, how five such re-
fractory ilL-matched fellows should agree about these
women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the
same woman, especially seeing two or three of them were
without comparison, more agreeable than the others:
but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrel*
ling among themselves; for they set the five women by
themselves in one of their huts, and they went all into
the other hut, and drew lots among them who lhould
chuse first.
Me that drew to chuse firsts went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetch-
ed^out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he
that chose first,took her that was reckoned the homeliest,
and the oldest of the-five, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it;
but the fellow considered better than any of them*, that
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as mueh as any thing else; and she proved
the best wife in the parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in arow
thus, and fetched out one by one* the terrors of their
condition returned upon them again, and they firmly
believed, thatrthey were now going to be devoured! ac-
cordingly, when the English sailor cajaeinaadletehed
out*
^oirt one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cr^f
and hung about her, and took their leave of her with
such agonies and such affection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in'the world; nor was it possible for
the Engliihmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man,
Friday's father, who instantly let them know, that the
five men who had fetch M them out one by one, had
chosen them for their wives.
When they had done this, and the fright the women
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and the
Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a few hours,
they had built them every one a new hut or tent for
their lodging apart: for those they had already, were
crouded with their tools, houfhold-stufF and provisions:
The three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of
the island, so that they continued separate as before;
,and thus ray island was peopled :in three places, and, as
I might fay, three towns were began to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing^ that as it of-
ten happens in the world (what the wife ends of God's
providences are in such a disposition of things, I cannot
fay) the two honest fellows had the two worst wives:
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed bom
to do themselves good, or any one else, had three cle-
ver, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives; not that
the two first were ill wives as to their temper or hu-
mour; for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive
and subjected creatures, rather like staves than wives;
but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, inge-
nious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management of the seve-
ral little colonies; the two men had so far outgone the
three, that there was no comparison: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as tl^y
wanted; and Ac reason was, because, according to my
rule*
rule, nature dictated, and that it was to no purpose to fW
more corn than they wanted; but the difference of the
cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and indeed
every thing else, was easy to be seen at first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation quite demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shewn
in its place; yet they had restored all again, and every
thing was flourishing and thriving about them ,• they had
grapes planted in order, any managed like a vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen any thing of that
kind; and by their good ordering their vines, their
grapes were as good again as any of the others. They
had also formed themselves a retreat in the thickest part
of the woods, where, though there wras not a natural
cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief
which followed happened, they secured their wives and
children, so as they could never be found : they having
by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood,
which, as I said, grew so easily, made a grove impassa-
ble, except in one place, where they climbed up to get
over the outfide part; and then went in by ways of their
own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as 1 justly call them, tho/
they were much civilized by their new settlement, com-
pared to what they were before, and were not so quar-
relsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of
the certain companions of a profligate mind never left
them, and that was their idleness; it is true, they
planted corn, and made fences; but Solomon's words
were never better verefied than in them; * Iwent by the
vineyard of the slothful, and it wjk overgrown with
thorn;' for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not fee it in some places for weeds; the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had gotten
in, and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a
dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out fqr the
present, but it was only shutting the stable-door after the
Steed was stolen j whereas, when they looked on the
qolony
colony os the other two, there was the very face of ia-
dustry and success upon all they did; there was not a
weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of
their hedges: and they, on the other hand, verified So-
lomon's words in another place: i The diligent hand
* maketh rich ;' for every thing grew and thrived, and
they had plenty within and without; they had more
tame cattle than the other, more utenills and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly within doors; and, having learned the English
ways of dressing and cooking from one of the other En-
glishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board
the ship, they dressed their husband's victuals very nice-
ly; whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it; but then the husband, who, as I said, had been
cook's mate, did it himself; but, as for the husbands
of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles
eggs, and caught fish and birds: in a word, any thing
but labour; and they fared accordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably, and the slothful lived hard
and beggarly; and so I believe, generally speaking, it
is all over the world.
But nowr I come to a scene, different from all that had
happened before, either to them or me, and the origin
of the story was this:
Early one morning there came on shore five or six
canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you
please; and there is no room to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to
our men too, that they did not concern themselves about
it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
experience, that their only business was to lie concealed,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the savages,
they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having as yet not the least notion of there being
any inhabitants in the island; I fay, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to no but to give no-
tice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to shew themselves; only placing a scout
pro:
proper place, to give notice when the boats went ®ff to
iea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that/there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the -desolation of almost the whole co-
lony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them,
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprize, they found three savages left behind, and ly-
ing fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed, they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that
-like beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when
the others went, or they were wandered into the woods,
and did not comeback in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprized at this sight,
and perfectly at a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor
as it happened, was with them, and his advice was aik-
cd, but he professed he knew not what to do; as for
staves they had enough already; and as to killing them,
they were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard
governor told me they could not think of shedding in-
nocent blood; for, as to them, the poor creatures had
done no wrong, invaded none of their property; and
they thought they had no just quarrel with them, to
take away their lives.^
And here I must, injustice to these Spaniards, observe,
that let all the accounts of Spanisli cruelty in Mexico
and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men, of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these
Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had nothing of it
in their very nature; no inhumanity, no barbarity, no
outrageous passions, and yet all of them men of great
courage and spirit.
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their
Bearing the umsufferable usage of the three Englishmen,
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the
^ase of thM savages, as abore; after some consultation
they
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till* if possible, these three mien* might be gone j
but then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the
three savages had no boat; and that, if they were left
to rove about the island, they would certainly discover
that there were inhabitants in it, and so they ihould be
undone that way.
Upon this they went back again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still: so they resolved to awaken
them, and take them prisoners, and they did so: the
poor fellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women,
that they sliould be murdered and eaten ; for, it seems,
those people think all the world do as they do, eating
mens flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean to my palace under the
hill ,* but they carried them first to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work; such as the keeping the
goats, the planting the corn, &c. and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen,
Here they were set to work, though it was not much
they had for them to do j and whether it was by neg-
ligence in guarding them, or that they thought the
fellows could not mend themselyes, I know not, but one
of them ran away: and, taking into the woods, they
could never hear of him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages,
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off again in
two days time: this thought terrified them exceedingly;
for they concluded, andrhat not without good cause in-
deed, that if this fellovr got safe home among his com-
rades, he would certainly give.them an account that there
were people in the island, as also how weak and few they
were; Tor this savage, as I observed before, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they fifed, nor had he ever seen
err heard the fire of any oftheir gurts, much less had they
ffiewn him any other of tXerr retired places, such as the
Vol. IU D Cave
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the iw#
Englishmen had made, and the like.
^ The first testimony they had, thsit this Fellow had
given intelligence of them was, that about two months
'after this, fix canoes of savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side of the island, where they never used to
come before, and landed about an hour aftet sun rise,
at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation
of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had
beeft kept: as the Spaniard governor said, had they
been all there, the damage would not have been io
much, for not a man of them would have escaped: but
the case differed now very much; for two men to fifty
were too* much odds: the two men had the happinets
to discover them about a league off, so that it was above
an hour before they landed; and as they landed about
a mile from their huts, it was some time before they
could come at them. Now having great reason to be-
lieve that they were betrayed, the first thing they did,
was to bind the slaves which were left, and cause two
•of the three men, whom they brought with the women,
Who, it seems, proved very faithful to them, to lead them
with their two wives, and whatever they could carry a-
"Way with them, to their retired place in the woods, which
I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two fel-
lows'hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, 'feeing the savages were all come
on stiore, and that they bent their course directly that
way, they opened the fences where their milch-goats
were kept,' and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that
the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too, cunning for
that, and gave them ^n account of it all; for they went
directly to the place,
"When the two poor flighted'men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other Have they had
of #the three, who came with Ihe women, -and'who
was at their place by accident, away tt) the Spaniards,
with all speed, to give fcnjjm the'alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mean"time they too^L their arms,
and
and what ammunition they had, and retreated toward
the place in the wood, where their wives were sent
keeping at a distance; yet so that they might see,.if
possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that, from a rising
ground, they could fee the little army of truir enemies
come on directly to their habitation, and in a moment
more could fee all their huts and houfhold-stuff flaming
up together, to their great grief and mortification; for
they had a very-great loss; and to them irretriveable,
at least for some time. They kept their station for
awhile, till they found the savages, like wi'd beasts,
spread themselves all over the placfc, rummaging every
way, and every place they could think of, in search for
prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, so they
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about halt a mile farther, believe-
ing, as it afterwards happened, that the farther they
strolled, the fewer would be together.
The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of
a tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large; and
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see what might offer.
They had not stood there long,but two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; and a little way further they espied three more
coming after them,and five morebeyond them,all coming
the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep theirposture, or fly: but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help carney
they might, perhaps, find out their retreat in the woods,
and then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
D 2 there
there; and if there were too many to deal with, then they
would get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubt-
ed not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, tho' all the savages that were
landed, which were near fifty, were to attack them.
Havingresolv *d upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party; by which the two and the five that
followed would beseparated; at length they resolved to let
the two first pass by, unless they ihouid spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them. The two first savages also
confirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from
them towards another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came forwards directly to the
•tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so strait towards them, they re-
solved to take them in a line as they came; and as they
resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot
•might hit them all three; to which purpose, the man
who was to fire, put three or four bullets into his piece,
and having a fair loop hole, as it were, from a broken
hx>le in the tree, he took, a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of
the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly saw, that one of the three was the run-
away savage that had escaped from them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, #if poflible, he
ihouid not escape, though they should both fire ; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop
at the first shot, hestiould be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim:
for, the savages kept near one another, a little behind
in a line; in a word, he fired, and hit two of them di-
rectly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in
the head; the second, which was the runaway Indian,
was shot thro' the body, and fell, but was not quite dead;
and the third had a little scratch in theslioulder, perhaps
by the fame bail that went through the body of the se-
cond; and, being dreadfully frighted, though not much
Hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
in a hideous manner.
The
The five that were behind, more frighted with the
noise than sensible of theb danger, stood still at first;
for the woods made the found a thousand times bigger
than it really was; the echoes rattling from one fide to
another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming
and making, every sort, a several kind of noise, ac-
cording to their kind, just as it was when I fired the
Jirst gun that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that place
since it was an island.
However, all being silent again, and they not know-
ing what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till
they came to that place where their companions layr
in a condition miserable enough: and here the poor
ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over
the wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed,
enquiring of him how he came to be hurt; and who,
*tis very rational to believe, told them that a flasli of fire
fist, and immediately after that, thunder from their
gods, had killed those two, and wounded him . this,
I fay, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, lo they had never heard
a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard of a gun;
neither knew they any thing of killing or wounding at a
distance, wkh fire and bullets; if they had, one might
reasonably believe, that they wauld not have Hood so
unconcerned, in viewing the fate of their fellows, with-
out some apprehension of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the fame time had no notion of their
danger; yet, having them all thus im their power, and
the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
fly both together among them; and singling out by
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth,
frighted even to death, though not hurt, fell with the
rest ; so that our men, seeing them- all fall together,
thought they had killed them ail.
The belief that the savages were all killed, made
our two men come boldly out from the tree before
they had charged their guns again; which was a wrong
D 3 step,--
step; and they were under some surprise, when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of the
men alive, and of them, two very little hurt, and one
not at all: this obliged them to fall upon them with
the stocks of their mu quets; and first, they made sure
of the run-away savage, that had been the cause of all
the mischief; and of another that was hurt in his knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was
not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moan to them by
gestures and signs, for his life; but could not fay one
word to them that they c©uld understand.
However,they signified tohim toiit down at the foot of
a tree thereby; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece
of rope twine, which he had by great chance in his
pocket, tied his feet fast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they left him; and, with what speed they
could, made after the other two which were gone before
searing they, or any more of them, should find the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had left lay: they came once
in fight of the two men, but it was at a great distance;
however,they had the satisfaction to fee them cross over
a valley,towards the sea, the quite contrary way from
that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid
of; and, being satisfied with that, they went back to the
tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades; for he was gone,
and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not
"knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
, might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to
go away to the place where their wives were, to fee if
all was well there; and to make them easy, who were in
fright enough to be sure; for though the savages were
their own country-folks, yet they were most terribly a-
fraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge
they had of them. .
When they came thither, they found the savages had
le^en in the wood, and very near the place, but had not
fcurid it j for indeed, it was inaccessible, by the treses
standing
standing so thick, as- before;, unless the persons seeking it
had been directed by those that knew it, which these were
nxat; they found, therefore/everything very safe, only
the women in a terrible fright: while they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming
to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants*
and old Friday, I mean Friday*s father, were gone in a
body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept their, in cafe the savages should have
roved over to that side of the country; but they did
not spread so far: with the seven Spaniards came one of
the savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners for-
merly, and with them also came the savage whom the
Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at the tree:
for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of
the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought
him along with them; where, however they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had done the two
others, who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute necessity to kill them for
their own-preservation: however, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it; but ordered, that they should be
sent out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and
be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food: which was done; "and they were bouad
there hand and foot for that niglrt.*
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen Were
so encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves,
to stay any logger there; but taking five of the Spaniards
aid themselves, with four musquets and a pistol aistdn£
-them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went m
quest of the savages; and first, they came'to thV tree
where the men lay that had been killed; but: it Wajs-
easy to see, that some more of the sarages had beeli
there; for they attempted to carry their dead men away
• and had dragged twc* of them a good way, but hadgrreri
it over: from thence they advanced *o the first Hfii%
ground, where they hid stood and seen their fcamp destroy-
ed, and where they had the mortification still to fee some
«f the smoke; but neither could they heire see any of the
D 4 savages;.
savages: they then resolved, though with all possible
caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation:
but a little before they came thither, coming in sight of
the sea shore, they saw plainly all the savages embarked
again in their canoes, in order to be gone.
They seemed sorry at first that there was no way
to come ut them, to give them a parting blow: but
upon the wheie, were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and
&11 their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to
c©me and help them to rebuild, and to assist them with
needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any
good, yet, as soon as they heard of it (for they, living
jemote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all
was over) came and offered their help and assistance,
and did very friendly work for several days, to restore
their habitation?, and make necessaries for them; and
thus in a little time they were set upon their legs
again.
About two days after this, they had the farther sa-
tisfaction of seeing three of the savages canoes come
driving on shore, and, at some distance from them,
with two drowsed men; by which they had reason
to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea, and
liad overset some of them; for it blew very hard the
night aster they went off.
However, as some might miscarry, so on the other
Isand, enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as
wett of what they had done* as of what happened to
them; and to whet them on to another enterprise of
file same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them;
for, except what the first man bad told them of inha-
bitants, they could fay little to it of their own know-
ledge; for they never saw one man, and the fellow be-
ing killed that had affirmed it, they had no other wit-
ness to confirm it to them.
It was five or six months after this, before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men
were ia hopes tfeey had not forgot their former bad
luck,
luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable
fleet, of no less than twenty-eight canoes full of savages
armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war ; and they brought
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all oar
people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the
easternmost fide of the island, our men had that night
to consult and consider what to do ; and, in the fixik place,
knowing that their being entirely concealed was their
only safety before, ?nd would much more be so now,
while the number of their enemies was so great, they
therefore resolved, first of all, to take down the huts,
which w ere built for the two Englishmen, and drive away
their goats to the old cave; becaase they supposed the
savages would go directly thither, a? soon ask was day,
to play the old game over again, tho' they did not now
land within two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away *11 the flock ot
goats they had at the old bower, ;as I called it, winch
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and
the next morning early they posted ther&feives with all
their force, at the plantation of the two men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened;
these new invsdcrs, leaving their canoes at the east-end
of the islani, came ranging along the shore directly to-
wards the plac-, to the number of two hundred and
fifty, as near ae our men could judge. . Our army was
but small indeed; but, that which was worse, they had
not arms £>r all their number neither: The whole ac*
count, it seems, flood thus: First, as to men;
17 Spaniards.
£ Englilhmea.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved
very faithful.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.
*9
D$ To
To arm these they had.
ll Musquets
5 Pistols
3 Fowling-pieces
5 Musquets, or fowling pieces, which were takea
by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced*
2 Swords
3 Old halberts
29
To their slaves they did not give either musquet or fu»
'ill, but they had every one an halbert, or a long staff,
like a quarter staff, with a great spike of iron fastened
into each end of it, and by his fide a hatchet; also every
one of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could
not be prevailed upon, but they would come into the
iight; and they had bows and arrows, which the Spa-
guards had taken from the savages, when the first action
happened, which I have spoken of, where the Indians
foughtwith one another,and thewomen had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so os
ten, commanded the whole; and William Atkins, who,
tho* a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring
bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came
forward like lions, and our men, which wTas the worst
of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only
that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow,
with fix men, was planted just behind a small thicket of
bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first
of them pafs by, and then fire into the middle of them;
and, as soon as he had fired, to make bis retreat, as
nimbly as he could, round a part of the wood, and so
come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having
a thicket of trees all before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order; and
Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him; then
feeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders
three of his men to fire, having loaded their musquets
with
HOBINSON.CKUMWS. t%
wth six or seven bullets a-piece, about as big as large
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded, they
knewnot; but the consternation and surprize was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were frighted .to the
last degree, to hear filth a dreadful noise, and see their
men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it;
when in the middle of their fright, William Atkins, and
hisother three, let fly again among the thickest of them;
and in less than a mnute, the first three, being loaded
again, gave them a third volley.
. Had William Atkins and his men retired immediately,
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured
In their mot continually,the savages had been effectually
routed; for the terror that was among them came princi-
pally from this, viz. That they were killed by the Gods
with thunder and lightning, and could fee nobody that
hurt them; but William Atkins, staying to load again*
discovered the cheat; some of the savages, who were at
a distance, spying them, came upon them behind; and
tho' Atkins and his men fired at them also, two or three
times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed
jone of hia fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they
did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian staves
who came with' the women; this stave was a most gal-
lant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five of
them with his own hand, having no. weapon b\x$ one o£
the armed staves, and an hatchet.
Our men.being thus bard laid at, Atkins wounded,
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground
in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three vol-
lies upon them, retreated also, for their number was so
great, and they were so desperate, that tho' above fifty
of them were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet theyjcame on in the .teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was
observed, that their wounded men, who were not quite
disabled, were made ou|rageous by jtheir wounds* and.
fought like madmen.
When qur men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
iTie'EnglistajiarH that; were killed, behind them^ and the.
D S * Jairagea
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,
and heads, with their clubs, and wooden iwords, like
true savages: but, finding our men were gone, they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a
kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom; and
fcouted twice, in token of their victory: after which,
they had the mortificatton to fee several of their wound-
ed men fail, dying with the mere loss of blood,
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he
Was wounded, would have had him marched, and char-
ged them again all together at once; but the Spaniard
replied, Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men
light; let them alone till morning; all these wounded
men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint
with the loss of blood, and so we shall have the fewer
to engage.
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's
the reason I would go on, while I am warm. Well,
Seignior k Atkins, fays the Spaniard, you have behaved
gallantly, and done your part, we will fight for you, if
you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till
morning; so they waited.
But as it was a clear moon light night, and they
found the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fail upon
them in the night, especially if they could come to give
them but one volley before they were discovered. This
they had a fair opportunity to do: for one of the two
Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the fight be-
gan, led them round, bet«*een the woods and the sea-
side, westward, and turning short south, they came so
near where the thickest of them lay, that before they
were seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them,
and did dreadful execution upon them; in half a mi-
nute more eight others fired lifter them; pouring in
their small ihot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not
able to fee who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expediti-
on, and then divided themselves into 3 bodies and resolved
to fail in among them all together: they had in each body
8 persons; that is to fay 24, whereof were 2 a men, and
the * women, who, by the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party,
and so of the halberts and staves. They would have
had the women keep back; but they said, they were
resolved to die with rheir husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from among the
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could; the savages itood
all together, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing
the noise of our men shouting from three quarters toge-
ther; they would have fought if they had seen us; and
as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some ar-
rows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, tho'
not dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but,
running up to them, fired among them three ways, and
then fell in with the but-ends of their musquets, their
swords, -armed staves, and hatchets; and laid about
them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two fights, about 180 of
them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured
thro' the woods, and over the hills, with all the speed
that fear and nimble feet could help them to do; and
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they got altogether to the sea-fide, wh?re they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not
at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the fea-waid; so that it was impossible
for them to put off; nay, the storm continuing all* night,
when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them
driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore,
that it required infinite toil to get them off; and some
©If them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.
Oar men, tho' glad of their victory, yet got littlp rest
Aat aight; but having refreshed themselves as well as
they
they could, they resolved to march to that part of the
Island where the savages were fled, and fee what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the fight had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past reco-
vering life; a light disagreeable enough to generous
minds; for a truly great man, tho' obliged by the law of
battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.
However, there was no need to give any order in this
cafe; for their own savages who were their servants,
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the
more miserable remains of the savages army lay, where
there appeared about ico still; their posture was gene-
rally litting upon the ground, with their knees up to-
wards their mouth, and the hetid put between the
hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musquet-shot of
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two musquets to
be fired without ball, to alarm them; this he did, that
by their countenance he might know what to expect,
viz. Whether they were still in heart to fight, or were
so heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged,
and so he might manage accordingly.
This stratagem took ; for, as soon as the savages heard
the first gun, and saw the flash of the second, they
started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation
imaginable; arid, as our men advanced swiftly towards,
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind of an howling noise, which our men did not un-
derstand, and had never heard before, and thus they
ran up the hills into the country.
At first, our men had much rather the weather had
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they
did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the occasion of their coming again In such multitudes as
not to be resisted; or, at leasts to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them:
Will Atkins therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound*
kept always wish them, proved the best counsellor in this,
*aiec. his advice was, to take the advantage I that offer-
ed, and clap in between them and their boats j ancl
So
so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this, and some were
against it, for fear of making the wretches fly into the
woods, and live there desperate; and so they should
have them to hunt like wild beast, be afraid to stir about
their business, and have their plantation continually
rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and in short, be
reduced to a life of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do with
ioo men, than with ioo nations; that as they must de-
stroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all
of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he sliewed them
the necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it;
so they went to work immediately with the boats, and,
getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried to set some of them on fire: but they were so wet,
that they would scarce burn.However, the "fire so burned
the upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swim-
ming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what
they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods; and, coming as near as they could to our men,
kneeled down and cried, Oa, Oa, Waramokoa, and some
other words of their langnage, which none of the others
understood any thing of; but as they made pitiful ges-
tures, and strange noises, it was easy to understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would
be gone, and never come thither again.
But our men were now satisfied, that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but ef-
fectually to prevent any of these people from ever going
home again; depending upon this, that if ever so much
2.s one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colony was undone: so that, letting them
know that they mould not have any mercy, they fell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one,
that the storm had not destroyed be'fore; at the fight of
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard plain enough; after which they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know at first what to do
^ith them.
Nor
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consi-
der, that while they made those people thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; for tho' it is true they had driven
away their cattle, and the Indians did not iind their
main retreat, 1 mean my old castle at the hill, nor the
cave in the valley ; yet they found out my plantation at
the bower, and pulled it ail to-pieces, and all the fences
and slanting about it; trod all the corn under foot; tore
up the vines and grapes, beingjust then almost ripe; and
•did oar men an inestimable damage, tho' to themselves,
not one farthing's worth of service,
Tho5 our men were able to fight them upon all oc-
casions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them,
or hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble
of foot for ©ar men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single, for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers: the best was, they had no
weapons; for tho' they had bows, they had no arrows
left, nor any materials to make any, nor had they any
edged tool or weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the fame time our
men were also brought to very hard circumstances by
them; for tho' their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled; and
what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew
not: the only refuge they had now, was the stock of
cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. The three Englishmen,
William Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced
to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side of his head, just under the tem-
ples, so that he never spoke more; and it was very re-
markable, that this was the fame barbarous fellow who
cut the poor savage stave with his hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this
time than mine was at any time after I first discovered
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle;
for now they had, as I may fay, an hundred wolves upon
the
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The first thing they concluded, when they saw what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if pos-
sible, drive them up to the farther part of the island,
south-east, that if any more savages come on shore, they
might not find one another; then, that they would daily
hunt and harrass them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their number; ana
if they could at last tame them, and bring them to any
thing, they would give them corn, and teach them how
to plant and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and so terrified
them with their guns, that in a few days, if any as them
fired a gu n at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of fight farther and far-
ther, till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up
in the woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced
them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many
were afterwards found dead in the woods, without any
hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts re-
lent, and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
minded man that ever I met with in my life: and he
proposed, if possible, to take one os them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be
able to «ct as^ interpreter, and to go among them, and
fee if they might be brought to some conditions, that
might be depended upon to save their lives, and to do
us no spoil.
It was some time before any of them could be taken;
but, being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner; he was sullen at first, and
would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and victuals given him, and no violence offered
him, he at last ^rew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
with him, and told him how kind the others would be
to them all j that they would not only save their lives,
but
but would give them a part of the island to live in, pro-
vided they would give satisfaction, that they should keep
in their own hounds, and not come beyond them, to in-
jure or prejudice others ; and that they should have corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their bread",
and some bread given them for their present subsistence;'
and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest
of his countrymen, and fee what they said to it, assur-
ing them, that if they did not agree immediately, they
fliouldallbe destroyed.
The poor wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in number to about thirty-seven, closed with the pro-
posal at the first offer, and begged to have some food
given them;; upon which twelve Spaniards and two Eng-
lishmen, we41 armed, and three Indian slaves, and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were, the 3
Indian staves carried them a large quantity of bread*,
and some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the fun,
and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to
the fide of an hill, where they fat down, eat the provisions
very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when
they "came to beg victuals and directions, they never
came out of their bounds ; and there they lived when I
came to the island, and I went to fee them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them; they wanted
•nothing but wives, and they soon would have been a
nation: they were confined to a neck of land, sur-
rounded with hightv>cks behind them, and tying plain
towards the sea before them, on the south east corner of
the island: they had land enough, and it was very good
and fruitful for they had a piece of land about a mile
and half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them ]to make weoden spades, such as
I made for myself; and gave among them 12 hatchets,
and 3 or 4 "knives ; and there they lived the most sub-
jected innocent creatures that were ever heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquility,
with respect to the savages, till I came to re-visit them,
which was in about two years; not but that now and
tiken some canoes q£ savages cameoaihore for their
triumphal
triumphal unnatural feasts ; but as they were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any
search or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them, to my return, at least, that was
worth notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonder-
fully civilized by them, andthey frequently went among
them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters; for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly, ail
sorts of baskets, sieves, bird cages, cupboards, &c. as
also chairs to fit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at such
work, when they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people,
because we furnished them with knives, scissars, spades
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which
they could want.
With the help of these took they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their huts, or
houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like basket work all the way round, which was a very
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd;
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat,
as against ail sorts of vermin ; and our men were so taken
with it, that they got th* wild savages to come and do
the tike for them: so that when I come to fee the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if
they lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of bas-
ket-work, as I believe was never seen; it was 120 paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the
walls were as close-worked as a ba&et, in pannels or
%iares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, stand-
- ing
ing about 7 sect high: in the middle was another not
above 22 paces round, but built stronger, being eight-
square in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
very strong posts, round the top of which he kid strong*
pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof 01 eight rafters, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a1 few iron spikes,
which he had made himself too, out of the old iron that
I had left there; and, indeed, this fellow shewed abun-
dance of ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge of; he made himself a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself char-
coal for his work, and he formed out of one of the iron
crows a midling good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, sta-
ples and spikes, bolts and hinges. But to return to the
nouse; after he pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work,
so firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously
with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if
it had been tiled or stated. Indeed, he owned that the
savages made the basket-work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all
round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from
the 32 angles to the top posts of the inner house, being
about twenty-feet distant; so that there was a space like
a walk, within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the {ame
wicker work, but much fairer, and divided it into fix
apartments, for that he had lix rooms on a floor, and
out of every one of these there was a door; first, into
the entry or coming into the main tent, and another
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that
this walk was also divided into iix equal parts, which
served not only fora retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the family had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumference, what other
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered:
as soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
you
fMa^
' j£a-4Cf>.o#fat/{ A
you had a short passage strait before you to the door of
the inner house ; but on either side was a wicker parti-
tion, and' a door in it, by which you went, first, into
a large room or store-house, 20 feet wide, and about
30 feet long, and through that into another not quite so
long: so that in the outer circle were ten handsome
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets
or retired rooms to the respective chambers of the inner
circle; and four large warehouses or barns, or what you
please to call them, which went in thro' one another,
two on either hand of the passage, that led through the
outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen
in the world ; nor an house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three
families, that is to fay, Will Atkins, and his companion;
the third was killed, but his wife remained with three
children; for she was, h seems, big with chHd when he
died; and the other two were not at all backward to
give the widow her full share of every thing, I mean,
as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c. and when they killed
a kid, or found a turtle on the shore,: so that they all
lived well enough, though it was true, they were not so
industrious as the other two,as has been observed already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted; viz. that
as for religion, I don't know that there was any thing
of that kind among them ; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in mind, that there was a God, by the very
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name:
nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the
better for having been married to Christians, as we must
call them; for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapa&le of entering into
any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk
any thing to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can fay
the wives had made from them^ was, that they had taught
them to speak*English pretty well; and all the children
they had*, which were near twenty in all, were taught
to %eak Eaglisti too, from their first learning to speak,
though thuy arfkfcspoko itii} a very broken*manner,
like
like their mothers. There were none of those children
above six years old when I came thither; for it was rot
much above seven years that they had fetched these five
savage ladies, over, but they had all been pretty fruitful,
for they had all children, more or less: I think the
cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good lort of well governed, quiet,
laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one an-
other, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I
cannot call them husbands; and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
legally married; both which were happily brought
about afterwards by my means, or, at least, by the con-
sequence of my coming among them.
Having thus given an account of the colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my five runagade Englishmen, I
must fay something of the Spaniards, who were the main
body of the family; and in whose story there are some
Incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances, when they were among the savages; they
told me readily, that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they
were a poor miserable dejected handful of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the
weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but starving: one of them, a grave and very sensible
man, told me, he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wife men to give up them-
selves to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reason offered, as well for present support,
as for future deliverance; he told me, that grief was
the most senseless insignificant passion in the world; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
view to things to come, and had no share in any thing
that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the
affliction than proposed a remedy: and upon this, he
repeated a Spanish proverb; which, tho' I cannot repeat
in just the fame words that be spoke it, yet I remember
J made it into an English proverb of my own thus:
In
In trouble to be trouble d.
Is to have your trouble doubled.
He ran on then in remarks upon all the little im-
provements I had made in my solitude; my unwearied
application, as he called it, and how I had made a con-
dition, which, in its circumstance, was at first much
worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than
theirs was, even now, when they were altogether: he
told me, it was remarkable, that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any
people that ever he met with; that their unhappy na-
tion, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the
world to struggle with misfortunes; for that their first:
step in danger, after common efforts are over, was al-
ways to despair, lie down under it and die, without rous-
ing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.
I told him, their case and mine differed exceedingly;
that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries,
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till
they could provide it: that it is true, I had this dis-
advantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the supplies 1 had providentially thrown into my hands,
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was
such a help as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, fays the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards
been in your cafe, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the ship as you did: nay, fays he,
we should never have found means to have gotten a
raft to carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore
without boat or fail; and how much less should we
have done; said he, if any of us had been alone! Well,
I desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they land-
ed; he'told; me, they unhappily landed at a place
where there were people without provisions; whereas,
had they had the common sense to have put off to sea
.again, and gone to another island a little farther, they
*had found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where
there
there were provisions, though no people; that is to fay,
that theSpaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there,
and fitted the island with goats and hogs at several
times 5 where they have bred in such multitudes, and
where turtle and sea fowls where in such plenty, that
they could have been in no want of stem, though they
had found no bread; whereas here they were only sus-
tained with a few roots and herbs, which they under-
stood not, and which had no substance in * them, and
which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
wh@ could treat them no better, unless they would turn
canibals, and eat men's flesli, which was the great dainty
of the country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove
to civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them
rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but in
vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust,
that they, who came thither for assistance and support*
ihould attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them bread; intimating, it seems, that none should set
up for the instructors of others, but those who could live
without thenu
Thev gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they
were driven to; how sometimes they were many days
without any food at all; the island they were upon being
inhabited by a fort of savages that lived more indolent,
and, for that reason, were less supplied with the neces-
saries of life, than they had reason to believe others
- ere in the fame part of the world; and yet they found
that these savages were less ravenous and voracious,
than these who had better supplies of food.
Also they added, that they could not but fee with
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness, the go*
vtrmng Providence of God directs the event of things
in the world 5 which, they said, appeared in their cir-
cumstances; for if, piæsled by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a. better place to live in,
they had then been out of the way of the relief that
happened to them by my means.
Then they gave me an account, how the forages,
whom they lived among, expected them to go out with
them
them into their wars: and it was true, that, as they had
iire arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose
their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible
both to friends and enemies; but being without powder
and shot, and yet in a condition, that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars;
when they came in the field of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves; for they
neither had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed,
the three halberts they had, were of use to them j and
they would often drive a whole little army before them,
with those halberts and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this they
wvere sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great
danger from their arrows; till at last they found the way
to make themselves large targets of wood, which they
covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they
knew not; and these covered them from the arrows of
the savages; that, notwithstanding these, they were
sometimes in great danger, and were once five of them
knocked down together, with the clubs of the savages,
which was the time when one of them was taken pri-
soner; that is to fay, the Spaniard, whom I had relieved:
That at first they thought he had been killed, but when
afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner, they were
under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willing-
ly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him*
They told me, that when they were so knocked down,
the rest of their company rescued them, and stood over
them, fighting till they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they made
their way with their halberts and pieces, standing close
together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got
the victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow,
because it was with the loss of their friend; whom the
other party finding him alive, carried off with some
others* as I gave an account in my former,
vow ix. E They
They described most affectionately, how they were
surprised with joy at the return of their friend and
companion in misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild
men; and, yet how more and more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of" his errand, and that
there was a Christian in a place near, much more one
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute,
to their deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight
of the relief Hent them, and at the appearance of
loaves of bread, things they had not seen since their
coming to that miserable place; how often they crossed
it, and blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it; as also
of the other things I had sent for their supply. And,
after all, they would have told me something of the
joy they were in, at the sight of a boat and pilots to
carry them away to the person and place, from whence
all these new comforts came; but they told me, it was
impossible to express it by words; for their excessive
joy driving them to unbecoming extravagancies, they
had no way to describe them, but by telling me, that
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent
to their passion, suitable to the sense that was upon them;
that, in some it worked one way, and in some another;
and that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would
burst out into tears; others be haif-mad, and others im-
mediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me,
and called to my mind Friday's extacy, when he met
his father, and the poor people's extacy, when I took
them up at sea, after their (hip was on fire; the mate of
the ship's joy, when he found himself delivered in the
place, where he expected to perish; and my own joy,
when, after twenty-eight years captivity, I found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country: All these
things made me more sensible os the relation of these
poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things,
as I found them, I must relate the heads of what I did
for these people, and the condition in which 1 left them.
It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled
troubled no more with the savages; or that, if they
were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were
twice as many as before; so that they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse
with the Spaniard, whom I* called governor, about their
stay in the island; for, as I was not come to carry any
of them off, so it would not be just to carry off some,
and leave others, who perhaps, would be unwilling to
stay, if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them, I came to establish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds
for them: That I had been at a great charge to supply
them with all things necessary; as well for their con-
venience, as their defence; and that I had such par-
ticular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employ-
ments which they were bred to, being artificers, to
assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them;
and before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried the first animosities that had been among them,
and could make hands with one another, and engage in
a strict friendship, and union of interest, so that there
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
William Atkins, with abundance of frankness and
good humour said, They had met with afflictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough
to make them all friends: That, for his part, he would
live and die with them; and was so far from designing
any thing against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they
had done nothing to him but what his own bad hu-
mour made necessary, and what he would have done,
and, perhaps, much worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish,
and brutish things he had done to them; and was very-
willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friend*
snip and union with them; and would do any thing
that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years.
E2 The,
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at first, dis-
armed and excluded William Atkins, and his two coun-
trymen, for their ill conduct, as they had let me know:
and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William Atkins had behaved
himself* so bravely in the great fight they had with the
savages, and on several occasions since, and had {hewed
himself so faithful to, and concerned for the general in-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past ; and thought he merited as much to be trusted with
arms, and supplied with neceilaries, as any of them;
and that they had testified their satisfaction in him, by
eommiting the command to him, next to the governor
himself: and as they had an entire confidence in him,
and ail his countrymen, so they acknowledged, tney
had merited that confidence, by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted: and
they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never have any interest
separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friend*
{hip, we appointed the next day to dine all together;
and indeed, we made a splendid feast: I caused the
ship's cook, and his mate to come on more, and dress
oar dinner; and the old cook's mate we had on shore,
affisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beeff
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
with our punch bowl, and materials to fill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the
Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many
years; and which it may be supposed, they were ex-
ceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids,
which the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board oar ship to the seamen, that
they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
with their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that
there might be no dispute about dividing, I (hewed them
there was sufficient'for them all; and desired, that they
might
might all take an equal quantity of the goods that were
for wearing ; that is to fay, equal when made up. As
first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of
them four shirts; and, at the Spaniard's requeit, after-
wards made them up six; these were exceedingly comfort-
able to them, having been what, as I may fay, they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.
1 allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged fittest for t-V heat of the season, cool
and loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed,
they mould make more, as they thought sit: The like
for pumps, shoes, stockings and hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, fat
upon the countenances of all these poor men, when they
saw the care I had taken of them, and how well I had
furnished them: they told me, I was a father to them:
and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place: and they all
voluntarily engaged to me, not to leave the place with-
out my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought
with me; particularly the taylor, the smith, and the
two carpenters, all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, my general artificer, than whom they could
not name any thing that was more needful to them; and
the taylor, to shew his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every
one a shirt the first thing he did; and, which was still
more, he taught the women not only how to few and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them asiist to make
the shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
As for the carpenters, I scarce need mention how use-
ful they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy things, and made them clever convenient tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and every
thing they wanted of that kind.
But, to let them fee how nature made artificers at first,
I carried the carpenters to fee William Atkins's basket-
house, as I called it; and they both owned, they never
saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before; nor
E 3 any
any thing so regular* and so handily built, at least of
its kind: and one of them, when he saw it, after mu-
sing a good while, turning about to me, f am sure, says
he, that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave every man a digging-spade* a shovel, and a rake,
for we had no harrows, or ploughs; and, to every se-
parate place, a pickaxe, a crow, a hroadaxe, and a saw;
always appointing that a: soften as any were broken, or
worn out, they should be supplied, without grudging,
out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chifTels^ knives,
sciffars, and all soits of tools, and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; for no man would care
to take more than he wanted; and he must be a fcol
that would waste or spoil them, on any account what-
soever: And, for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to profusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as I used
to do, with a musket upon each moulder, if there was
occasion; and were able to fight i' oo savages, if they
had but some little advantages of situation; which also
they could not miss of, if they had occasion.
1 carried on more with me the young man whose mo-
ther was starved to death, and the maid also; she was a
sober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
haved so inoffensively, that every one gave her a good
word: She had, indeed, an unhappy life with us, there
being no woman in the ship but herself; but she bore it
with patience. After a while, seeing things so well or*
dered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island,
and considering that Kthey Had neither business or ac-
quaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so
long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to re-
main on the island, and be entered among my family,
as they called it
I agreed to it readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or
houses
houses set up, surrounded with a basket work, pallisadoed
like Atkins's,and adjoining to his plantation ; their tents
were contrived so, that they'had each os them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store-
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in.
And now the other two Englishmen removed their habi-
tation to the fame place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habitation
under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city,
and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as well under, as on the outside of the hill, that they
lived, tho* perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never
was their such a little city in a wood, and so bid, I be*
lieve, in any part os the world: For, I verily believe,
1000 men might have ranged the island a month, and,
if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the
trees stood io thick, and so close, and grew so.fast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them down
first, could discover the place; except the two narrow
entrances where they went in and out, could be found;
which was not very easy<: One of them was just down at
the water's edge, on the fide of the creek; and it was
afterwards above 200 yards to the place ; and the other
was up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly
described it; and they had a large wood, thick planted,
also, on the top of the hill, which contained above an
acre, which grew apace, and covered the place from all
discovery there, with only oie narrow place between two
trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that fide.
The other colony was that of Will. Atkins's, where
there were four families of Englishmen, I mean those I
had left there, with their wives and children; three
savages, that were slaves; the widow and children of
the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the
maid, and, by the way, we made a wife of her also,
before we went away: There were also the two carpen-
ters and the taylor, who I brought with me for them:
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them,,
especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
and roy other man whom I called Jack of all trades *
•E 4 . who
who was himself as good almost as twenty men, for he
was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry
fellow; and, before I went away, we married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship;
whom I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally
to fay something of the French ecclesiastic, that I had
brought with me out os the ship's crew, whom I took
at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and perhaps,
it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record, of a man, whom, before I
begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in
terms very much to his disadvantage, in the account of
Protestants; as first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
Popish Priest; and thirdly a French Popish Priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must fay, he was a grave, sober, pious,
and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive
in his charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he
did: What, then, can any one fay, against my being
very sensible of the valueof such a man, notwithstand-
ing his profession? Though it may be my opinion,
perhaps, as well as the opiaion of others, who (hall read
this, that he was mistaken.
The first hour that I began to converse with him,
after he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies,
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversa-
tion: And he first began with me about religion, in
the most obliging manner imaginable,
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God (and, at
that, he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and, by
your obliging civility, have taken me into your family,
giying me an opportunity of free conversation: Now,
Sir, says he, you fee by my habit, what my profession
is i and I guess by your nation, what your's is: I may
think it is my duty, and, doubtless, it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the
fouls that I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am here under
your permission, and in your family, t am bound in
justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good
manners,
manners to be under your government; and therefore,
I mall not, without your leave, enter into any debates
on the points of religion, in which we may not agree*
farther than you shall give me leave.
I told him his carriage was fc modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; that it was true, we wer®
such people as they call heretics; but, that he was
not the first Catholic that I had conversed with, with-
out falling into any inconveniencies, or carrying the
questions to any height in debate; that he mould not
fiid himself the worse used for being of a different opi-r
nion from us; and if we did not converse without any
dislike on either fide, upon that score, it would be his
fault, not ours.
He replied, that he thought our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not his
business to cap principles with every man he discoursed
with j and that he rather desired me to converse with
him as a gentleman, than as a religieux; that if I would
gi\^e him leave, at any time, to discourse ypon religious
subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then he did not doubt but I wouid aiiow him also to
defend his own-opinions, as well as he could: but that*
without my leave, he would not break in upon me with
any such thing.
He told me farther, that he would not cease to 60 all
that became him in his office, as a pries!, as well as a
private Christian, to procure the good of theihip, and
the safety of all that was in her: and though, perhaps,
we would not join with him, and he could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he wouid do,
upon all occasions. In thisnianner we conversed; and,
*s he was of a most obliging gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was, if I may be allowed to fay fa, a man of good
iejise, and, as I believe, of great learning.-
He gave me a most diverting account of his life,
and of the many extraordinary events of it; of many
adventures which had befallen hig& in the few years
that he had been abroad in the world* and particu-«
larly this was very remarkable; vi?. that during th$
.voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune
to be five times flapped and unshipped, m& never to gci
to the place whither any of the (hips he was in, were at
first designed: that his first intent was, to have gone to
Martinico; and that he went on board a ship bound
thither,at: St.Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in
bad weather, the ship received some damage,by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was ob-
liged to unload her cargo there: That finding a Portu^
guefe ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to fail,
and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there,
bound to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to
the Madeiras; but the Master of the Portuguese ship
being but an indifferent mariner, had been out in his
reckoning, and they drove to Fial; where, however, he
happened to find a very good market for his cargo,;
which was corn; and therefore resolved not to go to the
Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to go away
to Newfoundland: He had no remedy in the exigence,
but to go with the ship; and had a pretty good voyage
as far as the Banks, io they call the place where they
catch the fifli, where meeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, in theri ver of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
fhou'd have an opportunity to complete his first design:
But when he came to Quebec, the master of the (hip died,
and the ship proceeded no farther: So the next voyage^
he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burnt,
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped them
with us for the East Indies, as I have already said-
Thus he had been disappointed in five voyages, all, as
I may call it, in one voyage, besides what 1 shall have
occasion to mention farther of the fame person.
But I shall not make digressions into other mens
stories, which have no relation to my o^n. I return*
to what concerns our affair in the iilanjd^fHe came to
me one morning, for he L dged among us all the while
we were Upon the island; and it happened to be just
when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at.
the farthest part of the island y I say, he came to me,
and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he
had, for two or three days, desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which, he hoped, would not
be disp!easingfto me, because he thought it might, in
spines
some measure, correspond with my general design*
which was the prosperity of my new colony; and*
perhaps, might put it, at least, more than he ye*-
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his dis-
course; and turning a little ihort, how, Sir, said I, can
it be said, that we are not in the way of God's blessing,
after such visible assistances, and wonderful deliver-
ances, as we have seen here, and of which I have given
you a large account?
If you had pleased, Sir, said he, (with a world of
modesty, and yet with great readiness) to have heard
me, you would have found no room to have been dis-
pleased, much less to think so hard of me, that I should
suggest, that you have not had wonderful assistances and
deliverances: And, I hope, on your behalf, that you
are in the way ot God's blessing, and your design is ex-
ceeding good and will prosper. But, Sir, said he, tho*
it were more so, than is even possible to you, yet there
may be some among you, that are not equally right in
their actions: And you know, that in the story of
Israel, one Achan, in the camp, removed God's bles-~
sing from them, and turned his hand so against them,
that thirty-six of them, though not concerned in the
crime, where the objects of divine vengeance, and
bore the weight of that punishment.
I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told
him, his inference was so just, and the whole design
seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own
nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him *
and begged him to go on: And, in the mean time,
because it seemed, that what we had both to say, might
take up some time, I told him, I was going to the Eng-
lishman's plantation: and asked him to go with me. and
we might discourse of it by the w^y: He told mej; he.
would more.willingly wait on me thither,, because there*
partly, the thing was acted, which he desired to speak
to me about: So we walked on, and I pressed him to
be free and plain with me, in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave*
to lay down a sew .propositions, as the foundation of
what I have to fay, that we may not differ in the ge-
E 6 neral
ncral principles, tho' we may be of some differing opi-
nions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though we
differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and
it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the cafe
before us, as I mail shew afterwards; yet, there are some
general principles in which we both agree; viz. First,
that there isa God; and that this God, having given us
some stated general rules for our service and obedience,
we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend him,
either by neglecting to do what he has commanded, or
by doing what he has expressly forbidden: and let our
different religions be what they will, this general prin-
ciple is readily owned by us all: That the blessing
of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous sta-
lling against his command: and every good Christian
will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care, living in a total neglect of God and his
commands. It is not your men being protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me
from being concerned for their fouls, and from endea-
vouring, if it lies before me, that they should live in as
little distance from, and enmity with, their Maker as
possible; especially, if you give me leave to meddle fo
lar in your circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told
him, I granted all he said, and thanked him, that
lie would so far concern himself for us; and begged he
would explain the particulars, of what he had obierved,
that, like Jostiua (to take his own parable) 1 might put
Æway the accursed thing from us.
Why, then, Sir, fays he, I will take the liberty yoa
give me; and there are three things, which, if I am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon
your endeavours here, and which I mould rejoice, for
your sak6, and their own, to fee removed. And, Sir,
fays he, I promise myself, that you will fully agree with
me in them all, as soon as I name them; especially, be-
cause I mall convince you, that every one of them may,
with great ease, -aad very, much to your satisfaction, be
remedied.
He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities,
km went on. JFirst, Sir^ fays he* you have here four
Englishmen,
Englishmen, who have fetched women from amoag the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have
had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require; and therefore are* yet, in the
fense of both, no less than adulterers, and living in adul-
tery. To this, Sir, fays he, I know you will object,
that there was no clergyman, or priest of any kind, or
of any profession, to perform the ceremony; nor any
pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of mar-
riage, and have it signed between them. And I know
also, Sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you; I
mean, of the agreement that he obliged them to make,
when they took these women, viz. That they should chusei
them out by consent, and keep separately to them;
which, by th* way, is nothing of a marriage, no agree-,
nient witst the women as wives, but only an agreement
among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony
(so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only-in the
mutual ccnlent of the parties to take one another as man
and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman,
at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the man to abstain from ail other women, to engage
in no other contract while these subsist; and*>n all occa-
sions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them*
.and their children; and to oblige the women to the same^
or like conditions, mutais mutandis, on their side.
Now, Sir, fays he, these men may, when they please,
or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women, and many them whilst these are living. And
Jiere he added, with some warmth, How, Sir, is Ged
lionoured in this unlawful liberty t And how shall a
blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your design,
while these men, who at present are your subjects, under
jour absolute government and dconinioa, are allowed by
you to* live in open adultery?
I confess, I was struck at the thing itself, but muck
more with the coavincmg arguments he supported it
with*
with; for it was certainly true, that though they had no
clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract on both
sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by any
token, which they had all agreed to he bound by, tho*
it had been but the breaking a stick between them, en-
gaging the men to own these women for their wives upon
ali occasions, and never to abandon them or their chil-
dren, and the women to the fame with their husbands,,
had been an effectual lawful marriage in the sight of
God; and it was a great neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest,
by telling him, that all that part was done when I was
not here; and they had lived so many years with them
now, that if it was an adultery, it was past -remedy;
they could do notning in it now.
Sir, fays he, asking your pardoi for {uch freedom,
you are right in this; that it being done in your ab-
sence, you could not be charged with that part of the
crime. But I beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you
are not therefore under an obligation to do your utter-
most now to put an end to it: how can you think, but
that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt,
for the future, will lie entirely upon you; Because it is
certainly in your power now to put an end to it; and in
nobody's power but your's.
I was so dull still, that I did not*take him right; but
I imagined, that, hy putting an end to it, he meant,,
that I mould part them, and not suffer them to live toge-
ther any longer: and I said to him, I could not do that.
by any means, for that it would put the whole island in
confusion. He seemed surprised that I mould so far
mistake him. No, Sir, says he, I do not mean that
you should separate them, but legally and effectually,
marry them now :„ and, Sir, as my way of marrying
may not be so easy to reconcile thepi to* tho* it will be
as effectual, even by your own laws; so your way may
be as well before God, and as valid among men; I
mean, by a written contract, signed by both man and
woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the
laws of Europe would decree to be valid.
I was amazed to fee so much true piety, and so much
sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his,
discourse,
discourse, as to his own party or church i" and such a true
warmth for the preserving people that he had no know-
ledge of, or relation to: I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the laws of God; the like of which I had,
indeed, not met with any where. But recollecting what
he had said, of marr ing them by a written contract,
which I knew would stand too; I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his part, very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them.
And I knew no reason why they should scruple to let
him marry them ail ; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as
if they were married by one of our own clergymen.—^
What was afterwards done in this matter, I ihail speak
of by itself.
I then pressed him to tell me, what was the second
complaint which he had to make; acknowledging, that
I was very much his debtor for the first; and thanked
him heartily for it. He told me, he would use the fanw
freedom and plainness in the second; and hoped I
would take it as well: and this was, that, notwith-
standing these English subjects of mine, as he called
them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, and had taught them to speak English, and even
to read it; and that they were, as he peceived, women
of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction;
yet they had not to this hour taught them any thing of
the Christian religion ; no, not so much as to know that
there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner God
was to be served; or that their own idolatr), and wor-
ihipping they knew not who, was false and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an account for;
and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. I am per-
suaded, says.he, had those men lived in the savage coun-
try, whence their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters,
and to worship the devil, than any of these men; so far
as I can fee, has taken with them, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir, said he, tho* I
da
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
should be all glad to see the devil's servants, and the
subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general
principles of the Christian religion; that they might, at
least, hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the Re-
surrection, and of a future state, things which we all
believe; they had, at least, been so much nearer coming
into the bosom of the true church, than they are now in
the public profession of idolatry, and devil-worship*
I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and
embraced him with an excess of passion: how far, said
I to him, have I been from understanding the most es-
sential part of a Christian, viz. to love the interest of
the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls.
I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
O Sir, do not fay so, replied he; this thing is not your
fault. Not saio I, but why did I never lay it to heart
as well as you? It is not too late yet, said he; be not
too forward to condemn yourself But what can be done
now? said I; you see I am going away. Will you give
me leave, said he, to talk with these poor men about itt
Yes, with all my hea/t, said I, and will oblige them to
give heed to what you say too. As to that, {aid he, w$
must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is our bu-
siness to assist them, encourage them, and instmct them;
and if you will give me leave, and God his blessing, I
do not doubt but the poor ignorant fouls shall be
fbrought home into the great circle of Christianity, if not
into the particular faith that we all embrace; and that
even while you stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not
only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for
it. What followed on this account I shall mention alib
again in its place.
I now. pressed him for the third article in which we
were to blame: Why really, fays he, it is of the fame
nature, and I will proceed (aiking your leave) with the
fame plainness as before: it is about your poor savages
yonder, who are (as I may fay) your conquered subjects.
It is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be, received
among all Christians, of what church, or pretended
church soever; viz. that Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated by all possible means, and on all possible
occasions*
occasions. It is on this principle that our church fends
miffionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous
residence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach
them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, Sir, you
have am opportunity here, to have six or seven and
thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good; which is really worth the expence of a man's
whole life.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word
to fay: I had here, a spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me, let his particular principles
be of what kind soever: As for me, I had not io much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before;
and, I believe, should not have thought of it; for I
looked upon these savages as staves, and people, whom,
had we any work for them to do, we would have used
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other part of the world; for our business
was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tisfied, if they had been sent to any country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the cafe: I say I was
confounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer
to make. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some disorder: Sir, said he, I ihall be very sorry, if what
J have said gives you any offence. No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly
confounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any notice of this before, but with reflecting what no-
tice I am able to take of it now. You know, Sir, said I,
what circumstances I am in 5 I am bound to the East-
Jndies, in a ikip freighted by merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain
their ship here, the men lying all this while at victuals
and wages upon the owner's account: it is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve days here; and if I stay
more, I must pay 3I. sterling per diem demurrage; nor
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more; and
I have
I have been here thirteen days already; so that I am
perfectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again ; in which case,
if this single ship mould miscarry in any part of her
voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I
was left in here at first; and from which I have been
so wonderfully delivered.
He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my
voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether
the blessing of saving ieven and thirty souls, was not
worth my venturing all I had in die world for/ I was
not so sensible of that as he was; and I returned upon
him thus: Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to
be an instrument, in God's hand, to convert seven and
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you
are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so
that it seems naturally to fall into the way of your pro-
fession ; how is it then, that you do not rather offer your-
self to undertake it, than press me to do it?
Upon this he faced abouts just before me, as he walk-
ed along, and putting me to a full stop, made me a
very low bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir,
fays he, for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a
work; and if you think yourself discharged from it*
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,,
and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken disappointed voyage as I
have met with, that I have dropt at last into so glorious
a work.
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face, while he
spoke this to me; his eyes iparkled like fire, his face
glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had
been falling into fits: in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a con-
siderable while, before I could tell what to fay to him;
for I was really surprised to find a man of such since-
rity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the
ordinary rate of men, not out of his profession only, but
even of any profession whatsoever; but, after I had con-
sidered it a while, I asked him seriously; if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture on the single consi-
deration of an attempt On those poor people, to be locked
* up
up irl an implanted island, for, perhaps, his life; and,
at test, might riot know whether he should be able to do
them any good, or not.
He turned ihort upon me, and asked me, what I called
a venture: pray, Sir, said he, what do ydu think I con-
sented to go in your ship to the East-Indies for? Nay,
said I, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he; and do yo% think,
if I can convert these seven and thirty men to the faith
of Christ, it is not Worth my time, though I should never
be fetched oiF the island again? Nay,is it not infinitely
of more worth to save so many souls, than my life is,
or the life of twenty more of the fame profession f Yes,
Sir, fays he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though
I was never to set my foot off this island, or fee my na-
tive country any more: but, since you will honour me,
fays he, with putting me into this work (for which I
will pray for you all the days of my life) 1 have one.
humble petition to you, fays he, besides. What is that!
said I. Why, says he,~ it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to
assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak to
them, or they to me.
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday,because
I could not think of parting with him, and that tor many
reasons; he had been the companion of my travels;
he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate
to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something
considerable for him, if he outlived me, as it was pro*.
babie he would: then I knew, that as I had bred Friday
up to be a protestant, it would quite confound hin>» to
bring him to embrace another profession; and he would
never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was an heretic, and would be damned j and this
might in the end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and
ib turn him back again to his original idolatry.
-However, a sudden thought relieved me in this.
-strait, and it was this; I told him, I could not fay,
that I was willing to part with Friday on any account;
whatever; though 3. work, that, to him was of more
value
value than his life, ought to me to be of much more
value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would
by no means consent to part with rae^ and then to
force him to it, without his consent, would be a mani-
fest injustice; because I had promised I would never
put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me, that he would never leave me, unless I put him
away, *
He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no
, rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him
Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he
also understood; and he should serve him for an inter-
preter; so he was much better satisfied, and nothing
could persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to
convert them; but Providence gave another and very
happy turn to all this.
I come back now to the first part of his objections.
When we Came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all
together; and after some accounts given them of what
I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
which they were sensible of, and very thankful for 5 I
began to talk to them of the scandalous life they led*
and gave them a full account of the notice the clergy,
man had already taken of it; and arguing how un-
christian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked them
if they were married men or batchelors ? They soon ex-
plained their condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them'were widowers, and the other three were single
men or batchelors, I asked them, with what conscience
they could take these women, and lie with them, as
they had done, call them their wives, and have so many
children by them, and not to be lawfully married ta
them? . _ .
They all gave me the answer that I expend; vi*.
that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives ;.
and to keep them, and own them, as their wives; and
*hey thought, as ihings stood with them, they were as
~ ° ~ legally
legally married as if they had been married by a parson,
and with all the formalities in the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in
the fight of God, and were bound in conscience to
keep them as their wives; but that the laws of men
being otherwise, they might pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor women and children here-
after; and that their wives being poor desolate wo-
men, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to
iielp themselves: I therefore told them, that unless I
was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did should
be for the women and children, without them; and
that unless they would give some assurance? that they
would marry the women, 1 could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wife;
for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to
God, who they could not think would bless them, if they
went on thus,
All this passed as I expected ; and they told me,
especially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the
rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they had
been born in their own native country, aad would not
leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest,
and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them,
and for their children, as any women could poilibly do;
and they would not part with them on any account:—
And Will. Atkins, for his own particular, added, if any
man would take him away, and offer to carry him home
to England, and to make him captain of the best man of
war in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might
not carry his wife and children with him; and if there
was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to
her now, with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it; the priests was
not with Ae at that moment, but was not far off:
So, to try him farther, I told him I had a clergyman
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: He said, as for himself, he
need not consider of it at all; for he was very ready to
do
do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and he
believed they would be ail willing also. I then told
him, that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman,
and could not speak English * but that I would act the
clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whether he was a papist or a protestant* which was in-
deed what I was afraid of; but 1 fay they never en-
quired about it.—So we parted. I went back to my
clergyman, and Will. Atkins went in to talk with his
Companions. I desired the French gentleman not to
fay any thing to them till the business was thoroughly
ripe; and 1 told him what answer the men had given
me.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me, they had been considering what I had
said; that they were very glad to hear I had a clergy-
man in my company; and they were very willing to
give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased; for they were far from
desiring to part from their wives; and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest, when they chose
them; so I appointed them to meet me the next morn-
ing; and that in the mean time they "should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage-law, and that
it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to
oblige them, that they should not forsake them, what-
ever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it,
as, indeed, they had reason to be; so they failed not
to attend all together, at my apartment, the next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman , and though
he had not on a minister's gown after the manner
of England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner
of France; yet having a black vest, something like a
cassock, with a fasti round it, he did notlooic -very un-
like a minister j and as for his language, I was his in-
terpreter.
* But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and
the scruples he made of marrying the women, because
they were not bapmed, and professed Christians, gave
them an exceeding reverence for his person; and
there
there was no* need after that to enquire whether he was
a clergyman or no.
Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been car-
ried so far, as that he would not have married them at
all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able fay to him,
he resisted me, though moiestiy, yet very steadily; and
at last refused abtolutely to marry them, unless he had
first talked with the men, and the women too: and
though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving tne sincerity of
his design.
When he came to them, he let them know, that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the
present design; that he was very willing to perform
that part of his function, and marry them, as I had
desired; but that before he could do it he must take the
liberty to talk with them. He told them, that in the
fight of all different men, and in the fense of the laws
of society, they had lived all this while in an open adul-
tery; and that it was true, that nothing but the con-
senting to marry, or effectually separating them from
one another now could put an end to it; but theie was
a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian
matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about, viz.
that of marrying one that is a professed Christian, to a
savage, an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not bap-
tized; and yet that he did not fee that there was time
left for it, to endeavour to persuade the women to be
baptized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they
had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which
they could not be baptized*
He told me, he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little know-
ledge of God, or his ways, and therefore he could not
expect that they had said much to their wives on that
head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
tise their endeavours with their wives, to perfuadfihem
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that
jnade them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have
no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was
it
^consistent with the principles of the Christian re-
ligion; and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
it very faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his
own words as I could, only sometimes adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was,
and how T was of his mind; and I always very faith-
fully distinguished between what I (aid from myself,
and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me, it was very true what the gentleman had said,
that they were but very indifferent Christians them-
selves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. Lord, Sir, sa^sWill. Atkins, how mould
we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves; and besides, Sir, said he, mould we go to talk
to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell,
'twould but make them laugh at us, and ask us what
we believe ourselves? And if we should tell them, we
believe ail the things that we speak of to them, such
as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they would ask us, where we intended to
go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked fellows, as indeed we are? Why, Sir, said Will,
*tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first
hearing. Folks must have some religion themselves-
before they pretend to teach other people. — Willl
Atkins, said 1 to him, though I am afraid what you say
has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your
wife, that she is in the wrong? That there is a God,
and a religion, better than her own; that her gods are
idols, that they can neither hear nor speak; that there
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he has made; that he rewards the good,
and punishes the bad; that we are to be judged by him
at last, for all we do here: you are not so ignorant, but
even nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and I am satisfied you know it all to be true, and believe
it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what face
can I fay any thing to my wife of all this, when slie will
tell me immediately, it cannot be true 1
Not
Not true, said I, what do you mean by that J Why-
Sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be true, that thi$
God (I shall tell her of) can be just, or can punish, or
reward, since I am not punished, and sent %o the devil,
that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I
have been, even to her, and to every body else , and
that I should be suffered to live, that have been always
acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and to
what I ought to have done.
Why truly, Atkins, said I, I am afraid thou speakest
too much truth; and with that I let the clergyman know
what Afkins had said; for he was impatient to know :-—
O I said the priest, tell him there is one thing will
make him the best minister in the world to his wife, and
that is repentance; for none teach repentance like true
penitents; he wants nothing, but to repent, and then
he will be so much the better qualified to instruct his
wife; he will then be able to tell her, that there is
not only a God, and that he is the just rewarder of good
and evil; but that he is a merciful being, and, with in-
finite goodness and long-suffering, forbears to punish
those that offend; waiting to be gracious, and willing
not the death of a limier, but rather that he should re-
turn and live; that he often suffers wicked men to go
on a long time, and even reserves damnation to the gene-
ral day of retribution ; that it is a clear evidence of God,
and of a future state, that righteous men receive not w
their reward or wicked men their punishment, till they
come into another WGrld; and this will lead him to teach
his wife the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last
judgment; let him but repent for himself, he will be aa
excellent preacher of repentance to his wife.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious
all the while, and who, we.could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it; when being eager,
and hardly suffering me to make an end; I knew all
this, master, fays he, and a great deal more ; but I han't
the impudence to talk thus to my wife; when God*
and my own conscience knows, and my wife will be ait
undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if
I had never heard of a God, or aftiture state, or any
thing about it, and to talk of m^t^mbg, alas (and
Vol. II. F with
with that he fetched a deep sigh; and I could fee that
tears stood irthis eyes) 'tis pa£ all that with me. Pail
it! Atkins, said I, What dost thou mean by that? I
know well enough what I mean, Sir, fays he; I mean
*tis too late; and that is too true.
I told my clergyman, word for word, what he said;
the poor zealous priest (I must call him so; for be his
cpin on what it will, he had certainly a most singular
affection for the good ©f other mens fouls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I fay,
this zealous affectionate man) could not refrain tears
also; but, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask him
but one question, Is he easy, thafcit is too late, or is he
troubled, and wishes it were not so? J put the question
fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal ot
passion, How could any man be easy in a condition that
certainly must end in eternal destruction? That he was
far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he be-
lieved it would one time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said,
lie believed he should, one time or other, cut his own
throat to put an end to the terror of it.
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern
In his face, when I told him all this; bat, turning quick
to me upon it, said, if that be his cafe, you may assure
liim it is not too late; Christy will give him repentance ,
but pray, fays he* explain this to him, That as no man
is saved but by Christ, and the merit of his passion, pro-
curing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for
any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able
to fin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy ? Pray
tell nim, There may be a time when provoked mercy-
will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to hear ,
but that 'tis never too late for men to aslc mercy; and
we that are Christ's servants are commanded to preach
mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to al!
those that sincerely repeat; so that 'tis never too late to
repent.
I told Atkins all this, and he 'heard me with great
earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned off the dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
Jiave some talk with his wise; (o he went out Awhile
and
and we walked to the rest. I perceived they were all stu-
pidly ignorant, as t© matters of religion ; much as I was
when I went rambling away from my father; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what
had been said, and all of them seriously promised, that
they would talk with their wives about it, and to do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me, when I reported what
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but,
at last, shaking his head, We that are Christ's servants*
fays he, can go no further than to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and pro-
mise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to
accept their good words; but, believe me, Sir, Aid he,
whatever you may have known of the life of that man
you call William Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere
convert among them; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent; I won't despair of the rest; but that man is per-
fectly struck with the fense of his past life; and I doubt
not, but when he comes to talk of religion to his wife,
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to
teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching our-
selves. I knew a man, added he, who, having nothing;
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and profligate, to the last degree, in his -Hfe,
made a thorough reformation in himself, and being
to convert a Jew; and if that poor Atkins begins but
once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, mf life
for it, he talks himself into a thorough convert, make-*
himself a penitent; and who knows what may follow?
Up@n this discourse however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married the other three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in; after
this my clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone ; and, turning to me, fays
he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here, and look: I dare fay we shall find this poor
*nan somewhere or other, talking seriously with his
wife, and teaching her already something of religion,
1 began to be of the fame mind; so we went out toge-
ther i and I carried him a way whkh none knew but
F z myself^
myself, an I where the trees were ib thick set, as that
it was not easy to fee through the thicket of leaves,
ami far harder to fee in, than to fee out; when coming
to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and his tawny
savage wife, sitting under the shade cf a bush, very
eager in discourse; I stopped ihort, till my clergyman
came up to me; and then, having shewed him where
they were, we stood and locked very steadily at them a
good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the sun, and to, every quarter cf the heavens ;-then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himlelf, then to
her, 40 the woods, to the tree*. Now, fays my clergy-
man, you fee my u ords are made good ; the man preaches
to her; mark him, now he is telling her that our God has
made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the
sea, the woods, the trees, &c, I believe he is, said I:
immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his
feet, fall down upon his knees, and lift up both his
hands: we suppose he said something, but we could not
hear him: it was too far for that: he did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether me said any
thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor fellow
was upon his knees, I could fee the tears run plentifully
down my clergyman's cheeks : and I could hardly forbear
myself; but it was a great affliction to us both, that we
were not near enough to hear any thing that passed be-
tween them. _  *
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear
of disturbing them: so we resolved to see an end of
this peace of still conversation ; and it spoke load enough
to us, without the help of voice: he {at down again, as
I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
feer: and two or three times we could fee him embrace
her pastionately: another time we saw him take out his
handkerchief, and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a kind of traniport very unusual: and aster
several of these thingj, we saw him on a sudden jump up
.„. again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the hand a step or two,
they
they bo tli-kneeled down together, and continaeiL ib
about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longet,but cries out aloud,
St. Paul, St. Paul! behold he prayeth : I was afraid At-
kins would hear him: therefore I intreated him to with-
hold himself a while, that we might fee an end of Jthe.
scene, which to me, I must confess, wa< the mqii affect-
ing, and yet the most agreeable,, that ever I saw in ray
life. Well, he strove with himself, and contained him-
self for a while, but was in such raptures of joy to think
that the poor heathen woman was become a christian,
that he was notable to contain himself; he wept several
times; then throwing up his hands, and croiSng his
breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by way
6f giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of
the success of cur endeavours: some he spoke softly,
and" I could not well hear; others audibly, some in La-
tin, some in French: then two or three times the tears
of joy would interrupt him, that he could not ipeak at
all. But I begged that he would compose himself, and
let us more narrowly and fully observe what was before
n , which he did for a time, and the scene was not ended
there yet; for, after the poor man and his wife were
risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talk-
ing still eagerly to her; and we observed by her mo-
tion that she was greatly astected wish what he said, by
her frequent lifting up her hand-, laying her hand to
her breast, and such other posture?, as usually express
the greatest seriousness and attention: this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away too: so that we could fee no more of them in that.
situation*
I took this interval to ta$c with my clergyman: and
first, 1 told him, I was glad to fee the particulars we
had both been witnesses to : that though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and
his wife, however ignorant they both might be: and I
hoped fuck a beginning would have yet a more happy
end: and who knows, said I, but these two may in
time, by instruction and example, work upon some,
of the others? Some of them i said he, turning quick
E 3 upoa.
upotate, ayVupon all of them; depen dupon it, if those
twaISfavages (for he has been but little better, as you
relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never
1 eave till they work upon all the rest: for true religion is
naturally communicative; and he that is once made a
christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can
help it. I owned it was a most christian principle to
think so, and a testimony of a true zeal, as well as a
generous heart in him. But, my friend, said I, will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot teft
how to object the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern, which you shew for the turning the poor people
from their paganism to the christian religion. But how
does this comfort yon, while these people are, in your
account, out of the pale of the catholic church; without
which you believe there is no salvation -, so that you
esteem these but heretics still; and for no other reaibns
as effectually lost as the pagans themselves?
To this he answered with abundance of candour, and
christian charity, thus: Sir, I am a catholic of the
Roman church, and a prkst of the order cf St. Bene-
dict:, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman
fakh: but yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not
speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my circum-
stances, and your civilities: I fay, nevertheless, I do-
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, with'**
out some charity: I dare not fay, though I know it is
our opinion in general: yet, I dare not fay, that you
cannot be saved, will by no-means limit the mercy of
Christ, so far as to think that he cannot ^receive you into,
the boibm of his church, in a manner, to us, imper-*
ceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know ;-
and I hope you have the fame charity for us: I pray
daily ftr your being all restored to Christ's church, by
.whatsoever methods he, who is all wife, is pleated to
direct. Jn the mean time, sure, you will allow it to
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between
a protestant and a pagan: between one that calls on
Jesus Christ, though in away which I do not think is
according to the true faith: and a savage, a barbarian %
that knows no God, no Christ, no redeemer at all;
imd if you are not within the pale of the catholic
church
church, we hope you arc nearer being restored to it, thaa
those that know nothhig at all of God, or his church *>
I rejoice therefore, when I fee this poor man, who, you
fay, has been a profligate, and almost* a murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not fully enlightened; believing that God, from
whom every such work proceeds,, will sensibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of the
truth in his own time , and if God shall influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his
wife, I can never believe that he shall be cast away him-
self: and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any are%rought to the knowledge of Christ, though they
may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the
catholic church, just at the time when I may desire it;
leaving it to the goodness of Christ to perfect his work
in his own time, and his own way! Certainly I would
rejoice, if all the savages in America were brought, like
this poor woman, to pray to God, though they were to
be all protestants at first, rather than they should continue
pagans and heathens; firmly believing that he who had
bestowed that first light upon them, would farther illu-
minate them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and
bring them into the pale of his church when he should
fee good.
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this,
truly pious papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
power of his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my
thoughts* that if such a temper was universal, we might
be all catholic christians whatever church, or particular,
profession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of
charity«v\ould soon work us all up Into, right principles;
and, in a word, as he thought that the like charity would
make us all catholics, so I told him, 1 believed, had all
the members of his church the like moderation they^
would soon be all protestants; and there we left that
part, for we never disputed at all.
However, I talked to h^m another way, and, taking
him by the hand, my friend, said I, I wish all the.
clergy of the Roman church \yere blessed with such mo-*
deration, and an equal share of your charity; I,am en-
tirely of your opinion i but. 1 must tell, y*>u, that if you
F 4 &oul
should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would
put you into the inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might do
in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the
better christians for that severity; for I am sure there is
no heresy in too much charity.
Well, a§ WH1 Atkins and his wife were gone, our
business there was "over; so-we went back our own
way ; and when we came back, we found them waiting
to be called in. Observing this, I aiked my clergyman
if we should discover to him that we had seen him un-
der the bulb, or no; and it was his opinion we should
not; but that we mould talk to him first, and btarwhat
he would fay to us; so we called him in alone, no-
body being in the place but ourselves; and I begun with
him thus:
'Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you?
What was your father?
W. A. A better man than ever 1 shall be. Sir, my
father was a clergyman.
R. C. What education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir ; but I de-
spised all education, instruction, or correction* like a
•beast as I was.
R. C. It is true, Solomon fays, He that despiseth re-
proof is brutish,
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered
my father; for God's fake, Sir, talk no more about
that, Sir; I murdered my poor father.
Priest. Ha ! a murderer I*
* Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it) and looked pale: It seems
he believed that Will had really killed his own
father.
R> C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so; Will
Atkins explain yourself; you did not kill your father,
did you, with your own hands?
W. A. No, Sir; I did not cut his throat ; but I cut
the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days;
I broke his heart by the most ungrateful unnatural re-
turn
turn for the most tender affectionate treatment that ever.
father gave, or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not a& you, about your father, to
extort this confession; I pray -God give you repentance
for it, and , forgive you that, and all your other fins;
but I asked you, because I fee that though you have net
much learning, yet you are not. so ignorant a? fcvzc STfe,.
in things that are good; that you have known more of
religion a great deal than you have practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not export the confess on
hat I make about my father, conscience does; and
whenever we come to look back upon our lives, the
fins against our indulgent parents are certainly the iirst.
that touch us; the. wounds they make lie'deepest; and
the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind^cf
all the fms we can commit.
R. C. You talk too feelingly andTeniMe for me At-
kins ; I cannot bear it.
W. A. You bear it, master; I dare fay you know
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I*
may fay, every tree in this island is witness to the an-
guish of my foul, for my ingratitude, and base usage of?
a good tender father; a father much like yours, by*"
your description , And I murdered my father as.well as-
you, Wijl Atkins; but think, for all that, my repen-
tance is short of yoar's too* by a great deal.
* I would have said more, if I couH have restrained:*
my passions ; but I thought this poor mans repen-
tance was so much smeererthan mine, that I was'
going to leave oft the diijgGurfe, and retire ;H for I
was surprised with what he fa?d*, and thought that
instead of my going about to teach and instruct'
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to
me, in a molt surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said' to me, Bid I not fay,
Sir, that when this man was converted, he would preach
to us all! I tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a
true penitent, here will be no need of pie ; he will make
5 F~" christians'
christians of all in the island . But, having a little com-
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.
But, Will, said I, How comes the fense of this matter
to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has
*ruck a dart through my very foul; I have been talking
about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you
directed me, to make a christian of her; and she has
preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget
while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to*
you, but when you were moving religious arguments
to her, conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a force as it is not to be
resisted.
R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between,
you and your wife, for I know something os it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account
©f it, I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue
to express it, but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can
tell you of it that I resolve to amend and reform my
life.
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin,
"Will ? For this has been an extraordinary cafe that is
certain, she has preached a sermon, indeed, if me has
wrought this upon you*
W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws.
a|(put marriage, and what the reasons were that men
aj^d women were obliged to enter into such compact ,
as it was neither in the power of one or other to breaks
that otherwise order and justice could not be maintained,
and men would run from their wives, and abandon their
children, mix confusedly with one another, and neither
families, be kept entire, or inheritances be fettled by a
legal descent.
R. C. You talk Hkea civilian, Will.-Could you make
her understand what you meant by inheritance and fami-
lies? They know no such thing among the savages, but
marry any how, without any regai^ to relation, con-
ftctguinity, or family, brother and sister, nay, as I
have
have been told, even the father and daughter, and the
son and the mother,
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are misinformed, and my
wife assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it,
perhaps, for any further relations, the may not be so
exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch one
another in the near relations you speak o£
R. C. Well, what did (he say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and. it was
much better than in her country-
JR.. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue.. I aiked
her, if site would be married to me our way? She
aiked me, What way that was ?. I told her marriage
was appointed of God*; and here we had a strange talk
together, indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe.
N. B. This dialcgue between W_ Atkins and his.
wife, as I took it down in writing, just after he told
it me, was as follows:
Wife. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God
in your country?
W. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country.
Wife. No your God in my country ; my country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unfit to ihewyou who God
is; God is in heaven, and make the heaven and the
earth, the fca, and all that in thæm is.
Wife. No makee de earth; no you God makee de
earth ; no make my country*.
* W. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wife. No laugh: Why laugh me? This no tang to*
laughs.
t He was justly reproved by his wife; for she was,
more serious than he at first.
W. A. That's true indeed \ I willnot laugLanv more*
my dear.
Wife. Why you fay, you Gad make all?
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world-
and you,, and me* and all things; for he is the only
F6 true;
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever in
heaven.
Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
with any thing before, but have lived without God in
the world myself.
Wise. What have you de great God in you de country,
you no, know him? No say O to him? No good ting
fbr him ? That no impossible!
W. A. It is too true though for all that: we live as
if there was no God in heaven, or that he had no power
on earth.
Wife. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee
yfcu good live?
W. A. It is all our own fault?
Wife. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
much great power; can make kill when he will; why
he no makee kill when you no serve him? No say O to
him? No be good mans?
W. A. That is true; he might strike me dead, and I
ought to expect it; for I have been a wicked wretch,
that is true ; but God is merciful, and does not deal with
us as we deserve.
Wife. But then, do not you tell God tankee for that
too?
W. A. No, indeed: I have not thanked God for his
mercy, any more than I have feared God for his
power.
Wife. Then you God no God; me no think, believe
lie be such one, great much power, strong; no makee
kill you, though you makee him much angry.
W. A. What! will my wicked life hinder you from
believing in God ! What a dreadful creature am 11 And
what a sad truth is it that the horrid Ryes of christians
hinders the conversion of heathens.
Wife. How me tink you have great muck God * up
there, and yet no do well, no do good ting I Can he tell i
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to heaven.
Wv A.
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and fees all things: he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wife. What 1 he no hear you swear, curse, speak
the great damn?
W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wife. Where be then the muchee great power
strong?
W. A. He is merciful: that is all we can fay for it;
and this proves him to be the true God: he is God, and
not man: and therefore we are not consumed*.
*Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with^horror,
to think how he could tell his wife so clearly, that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts
of the heart, and all that we do: and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done.
Wife. Merciful 1 what you call dat?
W. A. He is our father and maker; and he pitie*
and spares us.
Wife. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked: then he no good himself, or no
great able.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear: he^ is infinitely good,
and infinitely great, and able to punish too: and some-
times,, to mew his justice and vengeance, he lets fly"his
anger to destroy sinners, and make examples: many are
cutoff in their sins.
Wife. But no makee kill you yet: then he tell you,
may be, that he no makee you kill, so you make de bar-
gain with him, you do bad ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry at other mans r
. W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions
upon his goodness; and he would be infinitely just, if he
destroyed me, as he has done other men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead?
What you fay to him for that? You no tell him tankee
for all that too?
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that
is true.
Wife.
Wise* Why he no makee you much good better t Yoa
say he makee you.
W. A. He'made me as he made all the world; 'tis
I have deformed myself, and abused his goodness, and
have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wife. I wish you makee God know me: I no makee
him angry: I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Will Atkins said hi& heart sunk within him, to
hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught to*
know God: and he such a wicked wretch, that he*
could not say one word to her about God, but
what the reproach of his own carriage would make
most irrational to her believe : nay, that already
she could not believe in God, because he that wasio-
wicked was not destroyed.
W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach
you to know God, not God to know you: for he knows
yea already, and every thought in your heart.
Wiie. Why then he know what I iay to you now:
be know me wist* to know him: how shall me know who
makee me?
W. A, Poor creature, he must teach thee: IcanncE
teach thee: Ffl pray to him to wach thee to know him:
an4 to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such ar* agony at her desiring;
him to make her know God, and her wishing to:
know him, that* he said, he feUdownon his knees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her
mind with the saving knowledge os Jesus Christ,
and to parcbon his fins, and accept ©f his being the
unworthy instrument of instructing her in the prhv
ciples of religion; after which he fat down by her
again; and their dialogue went om
N. B. This was the time when we saw him kneel down
and lift up his hands.
Wife*
Wife. What you put down the knee for? What yot*
hold up the hand for? What you fay ? Who you speak
to I What is that?
W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my
submission to him that made me: I said O to him, as
you call it, and as you fay, your old men do to then?
idol Benamuckee; that is, I pray to him.
Wife. What you fay O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes and yon*
understanding, that you may know him, and be accepted
by him.
Wife. Can he do that too?
W. A, Yes*, he can; he can do all thing**
Wife. But he no hear what you fay?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him : and promised
t€>hear us.
Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you ? How he bid
you? What you hear him speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak: but he has
revealed himself many ways to us.
Here he was at a great, loss to make her understand
that God had revealed himself to us by his word:
aod what his word was: but at last he told it her
thus.
W. A. God has spoken to fbrae good men in former
days, even from heaven, by plain words t. and Gcd
has inspired good men, by his spirit; and they have
written all his laws down in a bock.
Wife. Me no understand that: where is book?
W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not tins,
book; but, I hope, I shall, one time or other, get it
for you to read it,
Here he embraced her with great affection: but with
inexpressible grief, that he had not a bible.
Wife. But how you makee me know, that God teachee
them to write that book?
W. A. By the fame rule that we know him to be God.
Wife. What rule, what way you know?
W.A.
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
but what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
make us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy;
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid all
that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its conse-
quences.
Wife. That me would understand, that me fain fee:
if he reward all good thing, punisli all wicked thing,
he teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing, he
makee all thing, he give all thing; he hear me when I
fay O to him, as you go to do just now: he makee me
good, if I wish be good; he spare me, no makee kill
me, when I no be good; all this you fay he do; yes
he be great God; me take, think, believe, him be
great God; me fay O to him too, with you, my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer ;,
but, raising her up, made her kneel by him: and he
prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge
of himself, b) his spirit: and that by some good provi*
dence, if possible, she might some time or other come,
to have a bible, that she might read the word of God,,
and be taught by him to know him.
This w#s the time that we saw him lift her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after
this, too long to set down here: and particularly she
made him promisv that smce he .confessed his own
life had been a wicked abominable course of provoca-
tion against God, that he would reform it, and not make
God angry any more, lest he should make him dead,
as (he called it, and then (he snould be left alone, and,
never be taught to know this God better, and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men
should be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to us
both, but particularly the young clergyman: he was
indeed wonderfully surprised with it: -but under the
greatest affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to
her : that he could not speak English to make her under-
fiaad him : and as she spoke bat very broken English
he
he could not understand her. However, he turned
himself to me, and told me, that he believed there must
be more to do with this woman than to marry her: I
did not understand him at first, but at length he explain-
ed himself: viz. That she ought to be baptized.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no: hold, sir, said he,
though I would have her baptised by all means, yet I
must observe, that Will Atkins, her husband, has, in-
deed, brought her :n a wonderful manner to be willing
to embrace a religious life: and has given her just ideas
of the being of a God, of his power, justice, and mercy:
yet 1 desire to know of |pm, if he has said any thing
to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners:
of the nature of faith in him, and the redemption by
him: of the holy spirit, the resurrection, the last judg-
ment, and a future state.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: but the
poor fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us,
he had said something to her of all those things, but
that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly
life, that he trembled at the apprehensions, that her
knowledge of him should lessen the attention she mould
give to those things, and make her rather contemn reli-
gion, than receive it: but he was assured, he said, that
her mind was so disposed to receive due imprestions of
all those things, that if I would but discourse with her,
stie would make it appear to my satibfaction, that my la-
bour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as
interpreter between my religious priest and the woman,
I intreated him to begin -with her: but sure such a ser-
mon was never preached by a popish priest in these
latter ages of the world: and, as I told him, I thought
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the since-
rity of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman Ca-
tholic: and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the
Roman bishops were, before the church of Rome assum-
ed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.
In 3 ^ord, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him,
not
not with wonder and astonishment only, as me did the
first notions of a God, but with joy and faith, with an
affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce
to be imagined, much less to be expressed j and at her
own request (he was baptized.
When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him
that he would perform that office *ith some cautiony
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman
church, if possible, because os other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us, in that very
religion which we were instructing the other in. He
told me, that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor pro-
per things for the office, I montd fee he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a Ro-
man Cathjlic myself, if I had not kuown it before : and
so he did, for saying only feme words over to himself in
Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a whole
dish full of water upon the woman's head * pronouncing
in French very loud, Mary j which was the name her
husband desired me to give her, for I was her godfather,
1 baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Sotk
and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could know any
thing by k, what religion he was of; he gave the bene-
diction afterwards in Latin 5 but either Will Atkins did
not know but it was French, or else did not take notice
of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, he married them ; and after
the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him,
notenly to persevere in that good disposition he was in,
but to support the convictions that were upon him, by
a resolution to reform his life; told him, it was ia
vain to fay he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes;
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the know-
ledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
careful he did not dishonour the grace of God; and
that, if he did, he would fee the Heathen a better Chris*
tian than himself; the savage converted, and the instru-
ment cast away.
He said a great many good things to them both* and
then recommended them, in a lew words* tdf God**
^oedn^sf
goodness gave them the benediction again, I repeating'
every thing to them in English: And thus ended the
ceremony. 1 think it was the most pleasant agreeable
day to me that ever I passed in my whole life.
But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts-
hung continually upon the conversion of the 37 savages;
and fain he would have staid upon the island to have
undertaken it; but I convinced him, First, that his un-
dertaking was inpracticable in itself; and 2dly, that
perhaps, I could put it into a way of being done, in his
absence, to liis satisfaction ; of which by and by.
Having thus brought the afrair of the island to a nar-
row compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship*
when the young man, whom I had taken out of the
famished ship's company, came to me, and told me, he
understood I had a clergyman with me; and that I had!
caused -the Englishmen to be married to the savages,
whom they called wives; that he had a match too,,
which he desired might be finished before I went, be-
tween two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be
disagreeable to me.
1 knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christian wo-
man on the island; so I began to persuade him not to da
any thing of that kind rashly, or because he found hin>-
self in this solitary circumstance: I represented, that he
had some considerable substance in world, and good
friends, as I understood by himself, and by his maid
also; that the maid was not only poor, and a servant,
but was unequal to him, she being 26 or 27 years old;
and he not above 17 or 18, that he might, very pro-
bably, with my assistance, make a remove from this
wilderness, and come into his own country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would
repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both.. I was going to fay
more, but he interrupted me, fmi3ihg, and told me,
with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my
guesses, that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts*,
his present circumstances being melancholy and difeon*
folate enough, and he was very glad to hear, that I had
thoughts of jutting them in a, way to fee their Qwa
country
country again, and that nothing should have set hint
upon staying there, but that the voyage I was going was
so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him
quite out of the reach of all his friends, that he had
nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was, give
him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, and
he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting the
good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would
redeem him, and hoped 1 would not be unmindful of
Kim when I came to England, that he would give me
some letters to his friends in London, to let them know
how good I had been to him, and what part of the
world, and what circustances I had left him in: aud
he promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and all the improvements he had made upon
it, let the value be what it would, mould be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because
lie told me positively the match was not for himself.
I gave him all possible assurances, that if I lived to
come safe to England, I would deliver his letters, and
do his business effectually, and that he might depend I
would never forget the circumstances I left him in, but
still I was impatient to know who was the person to be
married: Upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all
Trades, and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the
match, for, indeed, I had thought it very suitable.
The character of that man I have given already ; and
as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober,
and religious young woman, had a very good mare of
fense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very
Handsomely, and to the purpose j always with decency
and good manners, and not backward to speak when
any thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak
when it was not her business ;very handy and house-
wifely in any thing that was before her: an excellent
manager, and fit indeed to have been governess to the
whole islar d; she knew very well how to behave herself
to all kind of folks me had about her, and to better, if
she had found any there.
The
^ The match being proposed in this manner, we mar-
ried them them the lame day, and, as I was father at the
altar, as I may fay, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion, for I appointed her and her husband a hand-
some large space os ground for their plantation, and,
indeed, this match, and the proposal the young gentle-
man made to me, to give him a small property in the
island, put me upon parcelling it out among them, that
they might not quarrel afterwards about their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will At-
icins, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave
managing fellow; perfectly reformed, exceeding pious
and religious ; and, as far as I may be allowed to speak
positively in such a case, I verily believe, was a true,
sincere penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every-
one's satisfaction, that they only desired one general
writing under my hand for the whole; which I caused
to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the bounds and situation of every man's planta-
tion, and testifying, that I gave them thereby, several-
ly, a right to the whole possession and inheritance of
the respective plantations of farms* with their improve-
ments, to them and their heirs; reserving all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation, after eleven years, if I or
any one from me, or in my name, came to demand it,
producing an attested copy of the fame writing.
As to government and laws among them, I told
them, I was not capable of giving them better rules
than they were able to give themselves: only made
them promise me, to rive in love and good neighbour-
hood with one another: And so I prepared to leave
them.
One thing I must not omit: and that is, that being
now settled in a kind of common wealth among them-
selves, and having much business in hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of
the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed: |br,
excepting the providing themselves food, which they had
difficulty . enough in sometimes, they had no man-
ner of business or^property to manage. I proposed there
fore
fore to the governor Spaniard-, that he -should go to them
with Friday's father and propose to them to remove,
and either pi ant for themselves, or take them into their -
several families as servants, to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute staves, for I would
not admit them to make them staves by force, by a»y
means, because they had their liberty given by capitu-
lation, and, as it were articles of surrender, which they
ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
-all very cheerfully along with him , so we allotted them
land, and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all ttae rest chose to be employed as servant- in the
several families we had settled , and thus my colony was
in a manner settled, as follows: the Spaniards possessed
4tny original habitation, which was the capital city, and
extended their plantation all along the fide of the brook,
which made the creek that I have so often described, as
far as njy bower, and as they increased their culture,
it went always eastward ; the English lived in the north-
east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began,
and came on southward, and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards, and every plantation had a
f*reat addition of land to take in, if they found occasion,
so that they need not jostle one another for want of
room.
All the well end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages mould come on shore there,
only for their usual customary barbarities, they might
come and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would
disturb them : and no doubt but they were often ashore,,
and went away again: for I never heard that the plant-
ers were ever attacked and disturbed any more.
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to
my friend the clergyman, that the work of converting
the savages might, perhaps,, be fct on foot in his ab-
sence, to his satisfaction: and I told him, that now I
thought it was putka fair w#y: for the savages being
thus divided among the phristians, if they would but
everyone of them do their part with those which came
imder their hands, I hoped it might have a very good
a He
*4$
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their part; bat how, says he, how shall we obtain that of
them? I told him, we would call them all together,
and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one
by one, which he thought best; so we divided it; he
to speak to the Spaniards who where all papists ; and X.
to the English who were all protestants; and we recom-
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise,
that they would never make any distinction of papist
or protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn
Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of
the true God, and of their Saviour jesus Christ: and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have
any differences or disputes, one with another, about
religion*
When I came to Will Atkin's house, (I may call it so,
for such a house, or such a piece of basket-work, I be-
lieve was not standing in the world again !)I fay, when
I came thither, I found the young woman I have men-
tioned above, and Will Atkins's wife* were become
intimates, and this prudent, religious, young woman,
had perfected the work Will Atkin's had begun : and
though it was not above four days after what I have
Telated,yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
lier, in all my observation, or conversation in the
world.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before I
went to thtm, that among all the needful things I had
to leave with them, I had not left a bible : in which I
ihewed myself less considering for them, than my good
friend the widow was for me, when Ihe sent me the
cargo of 100I. scorn Lisbon, where Ihe packed up three
bibles and a pray|^-book. However., the good woman's
charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined,
for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction
©f those that made much better use of them than I had
*U*ne.
I took one of the bibles in my pocket, arid when
I came to William Atkins's tent or house, I found
the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wife, had
been discoursing of religion together; \fox William At-
irina
kins told it me, with a great deal of joy) I a&ed, if
they were together now? and he said, yes: so I went
into the houie, and he with me, and we found them
together very earnest in discourse: O, sir, says William
.Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile to himself,
and' aliens to, bring home, he never wants a messen-
ger: My wife has got a new instructor:*! knew I
was unworthy, as I was uncapable of that work: that
young woman has been sent hither from heaven: she
is enough to convert a whole island of savages. The
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I
cksired her to sit still: I told her she had a good work
upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless her in
it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any book among them, though I did not ask: but I put
my hand in my pocket, and pulled out my bible: Here,
said I to Atkins, I have brought you an assistant, that,
perhaps, you had not before. The man was so con-
founded, that lie was not able to speak for some time;
but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands,
and, turning to his wife: here, my dear, fays h?, did
not I tell you, our God, though he lives above, could
hear what we said? Here is the book I prayed for,
when you and I kneeled down under the bush: now
God has heard us and sent it. When he had said thus,
the man fell into such transports of a passionate joy,
that between the joy of having it, and giving God
thanks for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that
was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have
run into a mistake, that none of us were aware of:
for she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her
husband's petition: It is true, that providentially it
was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense:
but I believed it would have been no difficult matter, at
that time, to have persuaded the poor woman to have
believed, that an express messenger came from heaven,
on purpose to bring that individual book: but it was
too serious a matter, to suffer any delusion to take
place: So I turned to tjie young woman, and told
her, we did stfct desire to impose upon the new con-
vert,
vert, in her first, and more ignorant understanding of
things; and begged her to explain to her, that God
jsiay be very properly said to answer our petitions, when
in the course of his Providence, such things are, in a
particular manner, brought %e pass, as we petitioned for $
but we do not expect returns from heaven, in a mira-
culous and particular manner; and that it is our mercy
it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards effectually; so
that there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here ; and
I should have thought it one of the most unjustifiable
frauds in .the world, to have had it so; but the surprise
of joy upon Will Atkins, is really not to be expressed;
and there, we may be sure, was no delusion: sure n<*
man was ever more thankful in the world for miy thing
of its kind, than he was for this bible; and, I believe,
never any man was glad of a bibk from a better prin-
ciple; and though he had been a most profligate creature,
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and wicked,
to a great degree ;yet this man is a standing rule to us all
for the well instructing children; viz. that parents
should never give over to teach and instruct, or ever
despair of the success of their endeavours, let the chil-
dren be ever so obstinate, refractory, or, to appearance,
insensible of instruction ; for, if ever God in his Provi-
dence touches the consciences of such, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early instruction
of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep; but, some time or other, they may
ind the benefit of it.
Thus it was with this poor man, however ignorant he
was, or divested «f religion and Christian knowledge.
He found he had some to do with now more ignorant
than himself^ and that the least part of the instruction of
his good father, that could now come to his mind, was of
use to him.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his
father used Jto insist much upon the inexpressible value
of the. bible; the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
families, and persons; but he never entertained the
least notion of the worth of it till now; when, being:
Vol. II. G to
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle for his assistance.
The young woman was very glad of it also, for the
present occasion, though (he had one: and so had the
youth on board our ship, among the goods, which were
not yet brought on shore. And now, having f-:d so
many things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling
one story more of her and myself, which has something
ink very informing and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young wo-
man was reduced; how her mistress was starved to death
and did die, on board that unhappy ship we met at sea;
and how the whole ship's company being reduced to the
last extremity, the gentlewoman, and her son, and this
maid, were first hardly used, as to provisions; and, at
last, totally neglected and starved , that is to fay, brought
to the last extremity Of hunger.
One day, being discoursing with her upon the extre-
mities they suffered, I asked her, if she could describe,
by what me felt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and she
told her tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir, said she, we had for some days fared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great hunger; but now,
at last, we were wholly without food of any kind, ex-
cept sugar, and a little wine, and a little water. The
first day after I had received no food at all, I found my-
self, towards evening, first empty and rkkifh at my sto-
mach; and nearer night, mightily inclined to yawning
and sleepy; I laid down on a couch, in the great cabin,
to sleep; and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay
down; after being about three hours awake, it being
about five o'clock in the morning, I found myself emp-
ty, and my stomach sickiih again, and laid down again;
but could not sleep at all, being very faint and ill; and
tEus I continued all the second day, with a strange va-
riety, first hungry, then sick again, with reachings to
vomit; the second night, being obliged to go to bed
again, without any food more than a draught of fair
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barba-
dbes, and that the market was mightily stocked- with
provisions;
provisions; that I bought some for my mistress, and
went and dined very heartily.
I thought my stomach was full after this, as it would
have been after, or at, a good dinner; but when I wak-
ed, I was exceedingly funk in my spirits to find myself
in the extremity of famine : the last glass of wine we had,*
I drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being n*
substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise
disagreable fumes from the stomach into the head; and I
lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk*
for some time.
The third day in the morning, after a night os strange
and confused inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, I awaked, rarenous and furious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned, and
conquered it, I fay, I question whether, if I had been a
mother, and had a little child with me, its life would
have been safe, or no.
This lasted about three hours; during which time
I was twice raging mad, as any creature in Bedlam, as
my young master told me, and as he can now inform
you.
In one of these fits of lunacy, or distraction, whether
by the motion of the ship", or some slip of my foot, I
know not; I fell down, and struck my face against the
corner of a pallet bed, in which my mistress lay; and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and
the cabin boy bringing me a little bason, I sat down, and
bled into it a great deal; and as the blood ran from me,
I came to myself: and the violence of the flame, or the
fever I was in, abated, and so did the ravenous part of
the hunger.
Then I grew sick, and reached to vomit, but could
not; for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up; after
I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believ-
ed I was dead ; but I eame to myself soon after, and
then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be
described, not like the cholic, but a gnawing eager pain
for food; and, towards night, it went off with a kind
of earnest vvilhing or longing for food; something
C 2 like
~ufi A D V^ t* 1 UR 1 S Of
something like, as 1 suppose, the longing of a womapa
with child. I took another draught of water, with su*
£ar in it, but my stomach loathe the sugar, and brougnt
it all up again; then I took a draught of water, withr
,©ut sugar, and that stayed with me; and laid me down
Upon tffe bed, praying most heartily, that it would please
God to take me away ; and composing my mind in hopes
of it, I slumbered awhile; and then waking, thought my-
self dying, being light with vapours from an empty sto-
mach, I recommended my foul to God, and earnestly
wished that somebody would throw me into the sea.
All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought expiring; but bore it with much more patience
than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had to her
child, my young mailer, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved
his life.
Towards the morning, I slept again 5 and first, when I
awaked, I fell into a violent passion of crying; and
after that, had a second fit of violent hunger, so that I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful condition: had
my mist ess been dead, as much as I loved her, I am
certain, I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as
much relisli, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh
of any creature appointed for food; and once, or twice,
I was going to bite my own arm. At last, I saw the
bason, in which was the blood I had bled at my nose
the day before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such
haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I had wondered
nobody had taken it before, and afraid it mould be
taken from me now.
Though after it was down, the thoughts cf it filled
me with horror, ye it checked the fit of hunger; and
I drank a draught of fair water, and was composed and
refreshed for iome hours after it. This was the fourth
day, and thus I held it till towards night, wnen, within
the compass of three hours, I jfiad ail these several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another; viz. sick,
sleepy, eagerly, hungry, pain in me stomack, then ra-
venous again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying,
then ravenous again, aad io every quarter,o| an hour;
and -iny-(b«rt>£,th. waittu .exceedingly. At night I laid
me
me down, having, no comfort, but in the hope that I
should die before morning.
All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now-
turned into disease; and I had a terrible cholic and
griping; wind, instead of food, having found its way
into the bowels; an$ in this condition I lay till morn-
ing, when I was surprised a little with the cries and la*
mentations of my young master, who called out to me,
that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little,
for I had not strength to rise, but found me was not
dead, though she was able to give very little signs of life.
I had then such convulsicns in my stomach, for want
of some sustenance, that I cannot describe them, with
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite, that no-
thing but the tortures of death can imitate: and this
condition I was in, when 1 heard the seaman above cry
out, A sail, a sail, and halloo and jump about as if they
were distracted.
I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mis-
tress much less; and my master was so sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; so we could not open
the cabin door, or get any account what it was that oc-
casioned such a tombusticn; nor had we any conversa-
tion with the snip's company for two days, they having
told us they had not a mouthful of any thing to eat in
the (hip; and they told us afterwards, they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadful condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our lives: and how you found us,
Sir, you know as well as I, and'better too.
This was her awn relation, and is such a distinct ac-
count of starving to death, as I confess, I never met
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the
youth gave me an account of a good part of it; though
I must own, not so distinct, and so feelingly, as his
maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his mother
M him at the price of her own life: but the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that,
of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman
too, she might struggle harder with it: I fay, the poor
Hiaid might be supposed to feel the extremity something
G 3 sooner
feoaer.t^i her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bits something longer than file parted with any to
relieve the maid. No question, as the cafe is here relat-
ed, ifourstiip, or some other, had not so providenti-
ally met them, a few days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had preven&ed it by eating one
another; and even that, as their cafe stood, would have
served them'but a little while, they being 500 leagues
from any land: or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous maninr it happened; but this is by
the way. I return to my disposition of things among
the people.
And first, it is to be observed here, that, for many
reasons, I did not think fit to let them know any thing
of the flcop I had framed, and which I thought of setting
up air.* ng them : for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I setup the sloop, and left it among them, they
would, upon very light disgust, have separated, and
gone away from one another; ©r perhaps, have turned
pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead
of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intend-
ed it to be; nor did 1 leave the two pieces of brass can-
non that I had on board, of the two quarter deck guns,
that my nephew took extraordinary, fbr the fame rea-
son; 1 thought they had enough to qualify them for a
defensive war against any that should invade them; but
I was not to set them up for an offensive war, or to en-
courage them to go abroad to attack others, which in
the end, would only bring ruin and destruction tipon them-
selves and all their undertakings; £ reserved the sloop,
therefore, and the guns, for their service another way,
as I shall observe in its place.
I have now done with the island: I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a stouriming condition, and
went on board my ship again the 5th day of May, hav-
ing been five and twenty days among themi and, as
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came
to remove them, I promised to send som& farther relief
fmm the Brasils, if I could postibly stnd ta opportunity:
and particularly, I promised to send them some cattle:
such as &eepj« hogs* sad oowa; for, m m^ ihf two
cows,
cows and calves j whkh I brought from England, we fed
been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them
at sea, for want of hay to feed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set fail, and arrived at the bay of Ail Saints,
in the Brasils, in about 22 days: meeting nothing re-
markable in our passage, but this, that about three days
after we failed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the N. N. E. running, as it were, into a bay
or gulph, on the land fide, we were driven something
out of our course ; and once or twice our men cried, land
to the westward: but whether it was the continent or
islands, we could not tell by any means;
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth,
and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, co-
vered towards the land, with something very black,
not being able to discover what it was: but, after some
time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little
way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out,
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant
by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fel-
low a fool, or some such word: Nay, Sir, fays he,
don't be angry, for it is an army, and a fleet too: for
I believe there area thousand canoes, and you may fee
them paddle along, and they are coming towards us too,
apace, and full of men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible sto-
ries of them in the island, and having never been in
those seas before, that he could not tell what to think of
it, bat said two or three times, we shall all be devour-
ed. I must confess, considering we were becalmed, and
the current set strong towards the snore, I liked it the
worse: however, I bade him not be afraid, but bring
the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as 16
know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us . so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and
furl all our fails. As for the savages, I told them, they
had nothing to fear from them but fire: and therefore
they should get their boats out* and fasten them, one
close by the head, and the other, by the stern* and man
G 4 them
i$a A J) V £ ¥ TUWfcB>5 O*
them .both well, and wak.the ifilie, ja=<; that posture*
this'J did, that t^ men in the-boats might be/ ready,
with sheet and buckets, to.put out any sire these sa-
vages might endeavour to fix upon the outside of the
lo this posture we lay by for thenx, and. in a little
while they came up with us, but never was such a hor-
1 id sight seen by Ciiristians: my mate was much mis-
taken in his calculation of their number, I mean, of a
thousand canoes ; -the most we could make of them
when they came up, being about 126 ; and a great many
of them too; for some of them had 16 or 17 men in
them, some more, and the least fix or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a fight which
they had, doubtless^ never seen before j nor could they,
at hrst, as we afterwards understood, know what to make
of us. They came boldly up however, very near to us,.
and seemed to go about to row round us: but we called to
our men in the boat*, not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it: for five or six of their
*zrgG canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back;
winch they understood very well, and went back: but
ai u.ctr retreat about 500 arrows came on board us
from those boats; and one of cur men in the long boat
was very much wounded.
However, I called to them not to sire by any means;
but we,handed down some deal boards into the boat,
and the carpenter presently set up a kind of a fence,,
like waste boards »• to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a
body astern of us, and pretty near, so near that we could
easily discern what they were,, though we could not tell
their design, ? I,easily sound they were some of i»y old
friends, tne fame sort of savages that 1 had been * used
to engage with; and in a little time more they rowed
somewhat farther, out to sea, till they came directly
broadside with us, and-then rowed down strait upon us,
till they came so pear, that they could hear w speak?
upon
upon tM% I ordered aft my mefc to keep] close, lest they'
should- shoot any more arrows, and make all oar guns
ready; but, being so nearas to be within hearing, I
made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant;
which accordingly he did: whether they understood
him or not, that I knew not; but, as soon as he had
called to them, fix of them, who were in the foremost,
or highest boat to us, turned their canoes from us; and,
stooping down, shewed us their naked backsides; just
as »f, in Englisti, (saving your presence) they had bid us
kiss ., ,,. 5 whether this was a defiance or challenge,
we know not; or whether it was done in mere con-
tempt, or a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday
cried out, They were going to shoot; and unhappily
for him (poor fellow) they let fly about 3000s their ar-
rows ; and to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor fel-
low was shot with no lels than three arrows, and about
three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky marksmen
they were.
I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the
companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I
immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great; and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before to be
sure.
They were not above half a cable's length off when
we sired; and our gunners took their aim so well that
three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had rea-
son to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides
to us gave us no great offence ; neither did I know for
certain whether that, which would pass for the greatest
contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in return* I had only resolved to have
fired fbui>|| five guns with powder only, which I knew
would frigp them sufficiently: but when they foot at m
diredly with all the fary they were capable of, and
especially~as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so
entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, fo well de-
served it j I not only had been justified before God and
G 5 men
man, but would have been very glad, if I could to have
overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of
them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or hew many
we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such a fright
gnd hurry never was seen among such a multitude:
there were 13 or 140s their canoes split, and overset,
in all; and the men all set a swimming; the rest,
frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they
could, taking but little care to save those whose boats
were split or spoiled with our sliot: so I suppose that
there were many of them lost ; and our men took up one
poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone.
Our small mot from our cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many: but, in short, we never knew any
thing how i| went with them : for they fled so fast, that,
in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not fee above
three or four straggling canoes; nor did we *ver fee the
rest any more: for a breeze of wind springing up the
same evening, we weighed and set sail lor the Braiils;
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so
sullen, that he would neither eat or speak: and we all
fancied he would starve himself to death : but 1 took a
way tQ cure him: for I made them take him, and turn
him into the long boat, and make him believe they would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do,
but they really did throw him into sea, and came away
from him: and then he followed them, far he swam
like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, tho' they
knew not one word of what he said. However, at last
they took him in again, and then he began to be more
tractable : nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again: bu% I was the most
disconsolate creature alive, fer want of my man Friday,
and would have been very glad .to have gojg back to
the island, to have taken one of the rest r^pii thence
for my occasion, but it could not be; so weiwent on:
we had one prisoner, as I have laid , and it was a long
while before we could make him understand any thing;
but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he
began
began to be a little tractable: afterwards we enquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said; for his speech was so odd, all guttu-
rals, and spoken in the throat, in such an hollow and
fodd manner, that we could never form a word from
him; and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well, if they were gagged, as other-
wise; nor could we perceive that they had any occasion
either for teeth, tongue, lips,* or palate; but form-
ed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune,
vVith an open throat: he told us however, some time
after, when we had taught him to speak a
English* little that they were going, with their kings,
to fight a great battle. When he said kings, we asked
him how many kings? He said, there were five na-
tion, (we could not make him understand the plural $)
and that they all joined to go against two nation. We
asked him, What made them come up to us? He said,
To makee te great wonder look: where it is to be ob-
served, that all those natives, as also those of Africa,
when they learn English, they always add two E's at
the end of the words where we use one, and place the
accent upon the last of them, as makee, takee, and
the like; and we could not break them of it; nay, I
could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he
did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I
must take my last leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all decency and solemnity possi-
ble, by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for
him: and so ended the life of the most grateful, faith-
ful, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man
had.
We now went away with a fair wind for BrasiJ|
and, and in about twelve days time, we made land in the
latitudg»f five degrees south of the line, being the
north Uttermost land of all that part of America. We
kept on S. by E. in fight of the lhore, four days,
when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
G 6 place
t$6 A D T f V T IT It IS Q F
j^ceof my"deliverance, from whence came both my
good and evil fate.
Never did a ship come to this part that had less busi-
ness than I had ; and yet it was with great difficulty that
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence orf
shore : not my partner himself, who was alive, and made
a great figure among them; not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour: but my partner,
remembering that I had given five hundred moidores to
the prior of the monastry of the AugufHnes, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the mo-
nastry, and obliged the prior that then was, to go to the
governor, and beg leave for me presently, with thecap-
tain, and one mpre, besides eight seamen, to come on
ihore, and no more; and this upon condition absolutely
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away with-
out licence.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore
three bales* of English goods, such as fine broad cloths,
stuffs, and some linen, which I had bought for a present
to my partner.
He was a very generous frroad-hearted man, though
(like me) he came from little at first; and though he
knew not that I had the least design of giving him any
thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moidores, in-
cluding some tobacco, and three or four fine medals
in gold. But I was even with him in my present,
which, as I have said, consisted of fine broad cloth,
^English stuffs, lace and find Hollands. Also I deli-
vered him about the value of iool. sterling, in the
fame goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set
tip the stoop which I had brought with me from Eng-
land* as I have said, for the use of my colony, in or-
der to send the refreshments 1 intended to m^planta-
tion. ^
Accordingly he pot hands, and finished the stoop in
a very few day*, for she was already framed, and I gave
the master of her such instructions as he ccruld not miss
the
ROB m&C.tf ~ *4J* V S Q E. J57
the place j. nor did he miss k, as I had- an account from
my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with 1%
small cargo I had sent them; and one of our seamen,
that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with
the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the go-
vernor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity of
land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes,
and tools for his planting work, which, he said, he un-
derstood, Having been an old planter in Maryland, and a
buccaneer into the bargain.
I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired;
and, as an addition, I gave him the savage which we
had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, ar4 ordered
the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every
thing he wanted with the rest.
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner
told me, there was a certain very honest fellow, a Bra-
sil planter of his acquaintance, who had fallen into the
displeasure of the church ; I know not what the mat-
ter is with him, fays he; but, on my conscience, I
think he is an heretic in his heart; and he has been
obliged to conceal himself for fear of the inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wife and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to the island, and, allot them
a plantation, he would give them a small stock to be-
gin with; for the officers of the inquisition had seized
all his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a
little household stuff, and two slaves; and, adds he,
though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
fall into their hands, for he will assuredly be burnt alive if
he does.
I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman
with them; and we concealed the man, and his wife
and daughters, on board one ihip, till the sloop
put out to goto sea; and then (having put all their
goods on board the fjoop some time before) we put
them on board the sloop, after she was got out of the
bay.
Our seaman was mightilyr. pleased with this new
partner; and their stock, indeed, was mucji alike rich
in tools, in preparations, for a farm; but;nothing. t$,
begin;
begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials
for planting sugar canes, with some plants of canes;
which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood very
well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this sloop, three milch
cows, and five calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone-
horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged
three Portugal women to go | and recommended it to
them to m trry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but I remembered, that the poor
persecuted men had two daughters, and there were but
five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of
their own, though in another country.
AU this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were
now (with this addition) between sixty and seventy
people, besides little children; of which there were a
great many: I found letters at London from them, all
by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being
sent back to the Brasils by this sloop , of which I shall
take some notice in its place.
I have now done with my island, and all manner of
discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
memorandums, would do well to-turn his thoughts
entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not
cooled by almost forty years misery and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation; not
made cautions by affliction and distress beyond imita-
tion.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than
a man at full liberty, and having committed no crime,
has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve
him. Had I taken a small vessel from Englaat and
went directly to the island; had I loaded her; as I did
tke other vessel, with ajl the necessaries for the planta-
tion,
tion, and for my people, took a patent from the govern-
ment here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, I might have
obtained; had I carried over cannon and ammunition,
servants, and people to plant, and, taking possession of
the place, fortified and strengthened it in the name of
England, and encreased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had 1 then settled myself there, and sent the
ship back, !oaded with good rice, as I might alfo have
done in fix months time, and ordered my friends to
have fitted her out again for our supply; had I dixne
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense; but I was possessed with a wan+
dering spirit, scorned all advantages, pleased myself witH
being the patron of these people I had placed there,
and doings for them in a kind of haughty majestic way,
like an old patriarchal monarch ; providing for them, as
if I had been father of the whole family, as wella* of the
plantation: but I never so much as pretended to plant in
the name of any government or nation, or to acknow-
ledge any prince, or to call my people subjects, to any one
nation more than another : nay, I never so much as gave
the place a name; but left it as I found it, belonging to
no man; and the people under no discipline or govern-
ment but my own ; who, though 1 had an influence over
them as-father and benefactor, had no authority or power
to act or command one way or other, farther than vo-
luntary consent moved them to comply: yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough ; but
as I rambled from them, and came thither no more, the
last letters I had from any of them, were by my part-
ner's means, who afterwards sent another stoop to the
place; and who sent me word, though I had not the
letter til] five years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malecontent with their long stay
there ; that Will Atkins was dead; that five of the Spa-
niards were come away; and that though tlisy had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had some,
&irmifhes with them; that they begged of him to write
to-fe^, to think of the promise I had made to fetch them
*w.iy, that they might see their own country again be*
fore they died, <
But
lto JLDVE$TUJU£S OF
But I was gone a wild goose chase indeed j and thejr
who will have any more of me, must be content ta
follow me through a new variety of follies, Jurd-
fhips, and wild adventures; wherein the justice of
Prbvidenee may be duly observed, and we may fee
how easily heaven can gorge us with our own desires,
make the strongest of our wishes to be our affliction,
and punish us most severely with those very things
which we ihink it would be our utmost happiness to be
allowed in.
Let no wife man flatter himself with the strength of
his own judgment, as if he was able io chuse any parti-
cular station of life for himself. Man is a stiort-j^ghted
creature, fees but a very little way before him; and as .
his passions are none of his best friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst counsellors.
I fay this, with respect to the impetuous desire I had
from a youth, to wander into the world; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this principle was preserved in me
for my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the
circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give
you historically, and with its utmost variety of particu-
lars. But the secret ends of Divine Providence, in thus
permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own
desires, are only to be un<Jerstood„of those who can listen
to the voice of Providence, and draw religieus conse-
quences from God's justice, and their own mistakes.
Be it, had I business, or no business, away I went:
it is no time now to enlarge any farther upon the rea-
son or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to
the history, I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went.
I mall only add here, that my honest and truly pioua
clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go to
Lisbon, he aflcedme leave to go thither ; being still, as
he observed, bound never to nnifh any voyage he be-
gan ; how happy had it been for me, if I had gone with
him.' ;''., . ,;
Bui it was too late now : all things heaven apjiosats
are best; had J" gone with him, I had never had Ib rn^iy
things %be thankful for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the travels, and adventures of Robinson
Crusoe:
r oil tfs (sir e it Wo t. i6t
Crifoe; so I must lekve here the fruitless exclaiming at5
m^elfV and ^ on with iriy voyage. /
From the Brafils we made directly away over the At?
Ian He sea, to the Cape de Bonne Efperance, or, as we
call it, the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable
good voyage, our course generally south-east t now and
then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my dis-
asters at sea were at the end , my future rubs and cross
events were to befal me on shore; that it might appear,
the land was as well prepared to be ourscourage, as the
sea; when heaven, who directs the circumstences of
things, pleases to appoint it to be so.
Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motiens, after
flie arrived at the Cape: only being limited to certain
number of days, for stay, by charter-party, at the
several ports ihe was to go to; this was none of my bu~
linefs, neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew
the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those things
between them as they thought fit.
We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was need?*
ful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way
for the coast pf Coromande; we were indeed informed,
that a French man of war of fifty guns, and two large
merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies: and, as I
knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them; but they went their own way, and we
heard no more of them.
I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with
descriptions of places, journals of our voyages, varia-
tions of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade-
winds, situation of ports, and the like; such as almost aH
the histories of long navigation are full of, and which
make the reading tiresome enough: and are perfectly
unprofitable to all that read, except only to those who-
are to go to those places themselves.
It is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our passing
from one to another. We touched first at the island of
Madagascar: vvhere,tho' the people are fierce and treach-
erous, and in particular* very well armed with lances and
bows, which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we
we fitred very well with them awhile; they treated os
very civilly; and for Come trifles which we gave them,
such as knives, fcistars, &c. they brought us 11 good fat
bullock*, middling in size, but very good in flesh; which
we took in, partly for fresti provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here for some time, after we
had furnished ourselves with provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every nook of the
world wherever I came, was for going on ihore as often
as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we
went on shore one evening; and the people, who, by
the way, are very numerous, came thronging about
us, and stood gazing at us, at a distance; as we had tra-
ded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three bows out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us, which, it seems, is a
mark in die country, not only of truce and friendship*
but, when it is accepted, the other side set up three
poles, or bows, also; which is a signal that they accept
the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the
truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they come past your three poles
or boughs toward you; so that you are perfeclly/ecure
within the three poles; and all the space between your
poles and theirs, is allowed like a market, for free con-
verse, traffick, and commerce. When you go thither, ^
jqvl mull not carry your weapons with you; and if they
come into that space, they stick up their javelins and
lances,all at the first poles, and ccme on unarmed; but
if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold-of their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we wer-t on more,
that a greater number of their people came down
than usual, but was all verj friendly and civil. They
brought with them several kinds of provisions! for
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had;
their women also brought us milk and ro^ts, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and
and we made us a little tent, or4iut, of feme boughs of
trees, and lay on the shore all that night.
I know n©t what was the occasion, but I was not fo
well satisfied to lie.on shore as ths rest; and the boat ty-
ing at an anchor, about a stone's cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on ihore; and getting some boughs of trees
to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bot-
tom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of
the branches of the trees, all night.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one ofour
men make a terrible noise on the more, calling out, for
God's fake, to bring the boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murdered ; at the fame
time I heard the firing of five musquets, which was the
number of the gims they had, and that three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so easily frighted
with guns as the savages were in America, where I had
to do wkh them.
All this while I knew not what was the matter; but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I
caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three fusils we had on board, to land, and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the more .: but our men
were in too much haste: for, being come to, the shore,
they plunged into the water, to get to the boat with all
the expedition they could, being pursued by between
three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all
and only &ve of them had fusils with them: the rest, in-
deed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small use
to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded: and
that which was. Mil worse, was, that while we stood in
the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on ihore; for they poured their
arrows in »pogi us so thick, that we were fain to barri-
cade the fide of the boat up with the benches, and two
Xft three loose boards, which, to our great fatis&ction,
we had, bymsre accident, or providence rather, in the
boat.
And
Arid yet, had it been day-light, they are, it "seemr;
such exact marksinen, that if they could have seen but
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us: we had, by the light of the moon, a little sight
of them, as theyr stood pelting us from the stiofe with
darts and arrows; and, having got ready our fire-arms,
we gave them a volley; and we could hear by the cries
of some of them, that we had wounded several; how-
ever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore till
break of day, which we suppose was, that they might
fee the better to take their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to
weigh our anchor, or set up cur sail, because we must
needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot;
we made signals of distress to the ship, which, though
she rode a league of, yet my nephew the captain,
hearing our firing, and, by glassej, perceiving the pos-
ture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore,
pretty well understood us; and weighing anchor with
all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with
the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands
in her, to assist us -9 but we called to them not to come
too near, telling them what condition we were in ;how-
ever, they stood in nearer to us: and one of the
men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that
they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us,
and made the line fast to the boat; upon which we
flipt our little cable, and leaving our anchor behind,
they towed us out of the reach of the arrows, we all
the while lying close behind the barricac1- "~ ^*A
made
As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could lay her fide to the shore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured ina broadside among
them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,
and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a ter-
rible havock among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray:
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in
those
K 0 44 N % Q H *C R tT 5 0 & %&$
ihqfe parts, put me upon it; for he said, lie wan &re
t^$ inhabitants would not have touched, us, after we
-had made a truce, if we had not done something to pro-
YQke them to it % at length it came out, viz. that an
-aid woman, £who had come to sell ut some milk, had
brought; it within our po|es, with a young woman witk
her, who alto brought tome roots or herbs;,and while
the old woman, whs ther she was mother to the young
woman or no, they could not tell) was selling us
the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the
wench that was with her ; at which the old woman made
a great noise. However, the seaman would not quit
his prize, but carried her oat of the old woman's fight,
among the trees, it being almost dark: the old woman
went away without her, and, as we suppose, made an
outcry among the people she came from: who, upon
notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four
hours: and it was great odds but we had been all de-
stroyed.
One of oar men was killed with a fence that was,
thrown at him, just at the begmniug of the attack, as,
he sallied out of the tent we had made; the rest came
efF free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mis-
tress, for we could not hear what became of him &
great while: we lay upon the shore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him ;.
made our boat fail up shore, and down-shore, severaL
leagues, but in vain: so we were obliged to give him
over: and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had
been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without ventur-
ing on shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them: it was the third night after the action,
that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any
mea^s^ what .mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indian side : I was careful to do it in the,
dark, lest we should be attacked again: but I. ought
indeed, to have been sure, that the men I went with,
had been under my command, before I engaged in a
^hing so Hazardous" and mischievous, as I was brought
wtp it; ^irfious my knowledge or deiue."
We took twenty float fellows wkh us as any in the
gap, besides the supercargo and myself; and we landed
two hours before midnight, at the fame place wh^e
the Indians stood drawn up the evening before; I landed
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to
fee if they had quitted the field, and if they had left
any marks behind them, or of the mischief we had
done them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or
two of them, perhaps we might get our man again, by
way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men
into two companies, whereof the boatswain com-
manded one, and 1 the other: We neither could hear
nor see any body stir when we landed; so we marched
up, one body at a distance from the other, to the
field of battle: At first we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by and by, our boatswain, that led the
first party, stumbled and fell over a dead body: This
made them halt there awhile, for knowing by the cir-
cumstances, that they were at the place where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
we concluded to halt till the moon began to rife, which
we knew would be in less than an hour; and then
we would easily discern the havock we had made a-
mongthem: We told two and thirty bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had
an arm, and some a leg, shot off; and one his head:
those that were wounded, we supposed they had car-
ried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery
of all we could come at. the knowledge of, I was for
going on board again , but the boatswain and his party
often sent me word, that -they were resolved to make a
visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt; and desired me to go along with
them; and if they could find them, as they still fancied
they should, they did not doubt, they said, getting a
good booty; and it might be, they might find Thomas
Jeffrys there; that was the man's name we had lost.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well
enough what answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly onward, knowing lt
wa§
was not a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship,
and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were re-
solved to go, and only asked me and my company to
go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose
up (for I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to
the boat; one or two of the men began to importune
me to go; and when I still refused positively, began
to grumble, and fay they were not under my command,
and they would go. Come, Jack, fays one of the men,
will you go with me? I will go for one. Jack said he
would ; and another * folio wed, and then another ; and,
in a word, they all left me but one, whom, with much
difficulty too, I persuaded to stay; so the Supercargo
and 1, with one man, went back to the boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
take in as many of them as should be left; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them would run the fate of Thomas
Jeffrys.
They told me, like seamen, the'yd warrant it they
would come off again j and they would take care, &c.
So away they went. I entreated them to consider the
ship, and the voyage; that their lives were not their
own; and that they were intrusted with the voyage,
in some measure; that if they miscarried, the ship
might be lost for the want of their help ; and that they
could not answer it to God and man. I said a great
deal more to them on that head, but I might as well
have talked to the main-mast of the ship; they were*
mad upon their journey; only they gave me good
words, and begged I would not be angry; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but
they would be back again in about an hour at farthest;
for die Indian town, they said, was not above half a
mile off: though they found it above two miles before
taey got to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
attempt was desperate, and such, as none but madmen
would have gone about, yet, to give them their due,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
2 gallantly
m ADVESTMIS OF
gallantly armed, that is true: for they had every man a
fusil or ipusquet, a bayonet, and every man a pistol;
some of them had broad cutlaces, some of them hangers:
and the boatswain, and two more, had pole-axes: be-
sides all which they had among them 13 hand-grena-
does. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went
about any wicked work in the world.
When they went out, their chief design was plunder r
and they were in mighty hopes of finding gold there:
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware of,
set them on sire with revenge, and made devils of them
all: when they came to the few Indian houses, which
they thought had been the town, which were not above
half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment:
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses: and
where the town was, or how big, they knew not: they
consulted therefore what to do, and were sometime be-
fore they could resolve: for if they fell upon these, they
must cut all their throats : and it was ten to one but some
ofthdm might escape, it being in the night, though the
moon was up: and if one escaped, he would run, away,
and raise all the town, so they should have a whole army
upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went
away, and lest those untouched (for the people were
all asleep) they could not tell which way to look for the
town.
However, the last was the best advice: so they re-
solved to leave those houses, and look for the town as
well as they could: they went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree: tkis they presently con-
cluded 4vould be a good guide to them: for they said
the co. certain y belonged to the town before them,
or the town behind them; and if they untied her,
they should see which way she went: if me went back,
they had nothing to say to her; but, if she went for-
ward, they had nothing to do but to follow her: so
they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags,
and the cow went on before them: in a word, the
cow led them directly to the townf which, as they
reported, consisted of above 200 houses, or huts: and
in some of these, they found several families living
together.
Here
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, as steep
and a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind,
could make them : upon this they called another council,
to consider what they had to do ; and in a word they re-
solved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three houses on fire in three parts of the town : and as
the men came out, and to sei2e them and bind them
if any resisted, they need not to be asked what to do then;
and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder; but
resolved to march silently first through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they might
venture upon it, or no.
They did do, and desperately resolved that they would
Venture upon them ; but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, that were a little
before the rest, called out aloud, and told them they had
found Tho. Jeffrys 5 they all ran up to the place, and so
it was indeed, for there they found the poor fellow hang-
ed up naked by one arm, and his throat cut: there was
an Indian house just by the tree, where they found six-
teen or seven ten of the principal Indians, who had been
concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three
of them wounded with our shot; and our men found
they were awake, and talking one to another in that
house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them as before, that they swore to one another, they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came
into their hands should have quarter; and to work they
went immediately ; and yet not so madly as by the rage
and fury they were in might be expected. Their first
care was to get something that would soon take fire;
but after a little search, they found that would be to no
purpose, for most of the houses were low, and thatched
with flags or rushes, of which the country is full; so
they presently made some wild fire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little powder in the palms of their hands ; and, in
a quarter, of an hour, they set the town on fire in four
or five places; and particularly that house where the
Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the fire began
to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to rush cut
to save their lives; but met with their fate in the at-
Vol. II. H tempt,
tempt, and especially at the door, where they drove
them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-ax; the house being large, and many in
it, he did not care to go in, but called for an hand-
grenado, and threw it among them, which, at first,
frighted them; but when it burst, made such havock
among them, that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house, were killed or hurt with the grenado,
except two or three more, who pressed to the door,
which the boatswain and two more kept with the bayo-
nets in the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all
who came that way. But there was another apartment
in the house, where the prince or king, or whatsoever
he was, and several others, were; and they kept in, till
the house, which was by this time all of a light flame,
fell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt
together.
•• All this while they fired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people sailer than they could master
them; but the fire began to waken them fast enough,
and our fellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses be-
ing made of light combustible stuff, that they cculd
hardly bear the street between them; and their business
was to follow the fire for the surer execution: as fast as
the sire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our peo-
ple were ready at their doors to knock them on the head,
still calling and hallooiag to one another to remember
Tho. Jeffrys.
While this was doing, I must confess I was very un-
easy, and especially, when I saw the flames of the town,
which, it being night, seemed to be just by me.
My nephew, the captain, who was reused by his men
too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing
what the matter was, or what danger I was in; especi-
ally hearing the guns too: for by this time they began
to use their fire arms: a thousand thoughts oppressed
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what should
become of us: and at last though he could ill spare any
more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might
be
be in, he takes another beat, and with thirteen men
and himself comes on shore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo*in t)\e
boat, with no more than two men, for one had been
left to keep the boat; and though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the fame impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise, continued, and the
flame increased: I confess it was next to an impostihility
for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing what had happened, or their concern for the
safety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he
would go and help his men, let what would come. I
argued with him, as I did before with the men, the safety
of the ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest:
of the owners and merchants, &c. and told him I
would go, and the two men, and only fee if we could, at
a distance learn what was like to be the event, and
come back and tell him.
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk
to the rest before; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had left but ten men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help: he
had rather he said lose the ship, the voyage, and his
life,* and all; and so away went he.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now, than I
was to persuade them not to go before; so, in short, the
captain ordered two men to row back the pinnance, and
fetch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-
boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and fix more come after
us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of 6$ men, whereof two
were lost in the first quarrel which brought this mischief
on.
Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt
little of the ground we trod on; and being guided by
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns were
surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people
were now quite of another nature, and filled us with
horror. I must confess I never was at the sacking of
a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I have
H 2 heard
heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Droghedain Ireland,
and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of
Coun| Tilly sacking of the city of Magdeburg, and
cutting the throats of 22,000 of both sexes; but I never
had an idea, of the thing itself before; nor is it possible
to describe it, or the horror which was upon our minds
at hearing it.
However we went on, and at length, came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it
for the fire. The first object we met with, was the
ruins of a hut or house, or rather the aslies of it, for the
house was consumed; and just before it, plain now
to be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and
three women killed; and as we thought, one or two
more .lay in the heap among the sire. In short, these
were such instances of rage altogether barbarous, and
of a fury something beyond what was human, that we
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or
if they were the authors of it, we thought that every
one of them ought to be put to the worst of deaths : but
this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on, so that we were
in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way far-
ther; and beheld to our astonishment, three women
naked, crying in a most dreadful manner, and flying as
if they had., indeed, had wings, and after them, sixteen
or seventeen men, natives, in the fame terror and conster-
nation, with three of our English butchers, (for I can
call them no better) in the rear; who, when they could
not overtake them, sired in among them, and one that
was killed by their shot fell down in our sight,; when
the rest law us, believing us to be their enemies, and
tha: we would murder them, as well as those that pur-
sued them, they set up a moil dreadful shriek, especially
the women , and two of them sell down as if already
dead with the fright.
My very foul shrunk within me, and my blood ran
diillin my veins whenT saw this; and I believe, had
the three. English sailors that pursued them come en,
I had made our men. kill them aU However, we took
icme ways to lec.:.fche poor flying creatures know that
we
R 0 fir J N S O N C R 17S O^ 173
we would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up*
made piteous lamentations to us to save them which we
let them know we would do ; whereupon they kept all
teg^ther in a huddle, close behind us, for protection.
I Mt my men drawn »p together, and charged them to
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some c£ our
people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and
what they intended to do; and, in a word, to com-
mand them off; assuring them, that if they flayed till
day-light, they would have a hundred thousand men
about their ears: I fay I left them, and went among
those flying people, taking only two of our men with
me; and tiiere was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among
them ; seme of them had their feet ternjbly burnt with
trampling and running through the fire; others their
hands burnt, one of the women had fallen down in the
fire, and was almost burnt to death before she could
get out again; two or three of the men had cuts in
their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing, and
another was shot through the body, and died while I
was there.
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all
this was, but I could not understand one word they said:
though by signs I perceived that some of them knew"
not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terri-
fied in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I
couH not stay there, but went ba?ck to my own men;
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to
follow me, when in the very moment came fouref our
men, with the boatsvain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered .with blood
and dust, as if they wanted more people to massacre;
when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could
halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them
hear; so that they knew who we were, and came up to
us.
As soon as the boatswain saw as, he set up a halloo-
like a shout of triumph, for having, as he thought,
more help come; and without bearing to hear me, cap-
tain, fays he, noble captain, I am glad you are come;
we have not half done yet; villains 1 hell hound dage!
H 3 I will
I wilf kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we
will root out the very name of them from the earth ; and
thus he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would
not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a
little i BarbafCUS dog! said I, what are you doing >
I won't have one creature touched more, upon pain -of
death. I charge you, upon your life, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute.
Why, Sir, fe} s he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a reason for what
we have done, come hither; and with that he stiev\ ed
me the poor fellow hanging upon a tree with his throat
cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another
time should have been forward enough: but I thought
they had carried their rage too far, and thought of
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, * Cursed be
their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel.' But I had now a new talk upon my hands;
for when the men I carried with me saw the fight, as I
had done, I had as much to do to restrain them, as I
should have had with the others ; nay, my nephew him*
self fell in with them, and told me, in t^ieir hearing,
that he was only concerned for fear of the men being
overpowered; for, as to the people, he thought act one
of them ought to live; for they had all glutted them-
selves with the murder of the poor man, and that they
ought to be used like murderers; upon these words,
away ran eight t>f my men with the boatswain and his
crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it
quit out of my power to restrain them, came away pen-
sive and sad: for 1 could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and r *•'*<>* ^f tht> wwr wretches that fell
into their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the super ^
cargo and two men, and with these I walked back to
die boats. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I
confess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, as it
"began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run
vei"
eves the country, there stood about forty men armed
with lances and bows at the little place where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood mentioned before; but by ac-
cident I miffed the place, and came directly to the sea-
side; and by that time I got to the sea-fide it was broad
day ; immediately I took the pinnace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might
happen.
I observed that about the time I came to the boat-
side, the fire was pretty well out, and the noise abated;
but in about half an hour after I got on board, I heard
a volley of our mens fire arms, and saw a great smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men falling,
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood, at the few
houses on the way; of whom they killed 16 or 17, and
set all those houses on lire, but did not meddle with the
women or children.
By that time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnance, our men began io appear; they came drop-
ping in, some and some ; not in two bodies, and In form,
as they went out, but all in heap^, straggling here and
there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all off.
Buttae dread of them was upon the whole country $
the people were amazed, and surprised, and so frighted,
that I believe, an hundred of them would have fled at
the fight of but five of our men. Nor in all this terriole
a-lion was there a man who made any considerable de-
fence; they were so surprised between the terror of the
fire, and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that
t.iey knew not which way to turn themselves ; for if they
fled one way, they were met by onej>arty ; if back again,
by another ; so that they were every where knocked
dawn. Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt,
except one who stiained his foot, and another had one
of his hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,
indeed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him iti
particular; as well for his acting so out f£ his duty, as
commander of the ship, and having the charge of the
voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cooU
ing, the rage of his men, in f© bloody and cruel an en-
H4 terprife";
terprise: my nephew answered me very respectfully:
but told me that when he saw the body of the poor sea-
man, whom they had murdered in such a cruel and
barbarous manner, he was not master of himself, neither
could be govern his passion; he owned, he mould not
ha^e done io; as he was commander of the ship: but,
as he wa- a man, and nature ^moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not sub-
ject to me at all: and they knew it well enough: so they
took no notice of my diilike.
I he next day we set sail: so we never heard any
more of it. Our men differed in the account of the
number they killed: some slid one thing, some another:
but, according to the belt of their accounts put all to-
gether, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 peopl",
women, andchildien, and left not a house standing in
the town.
As for the poor fellow Thomas Jeffrys, as he was
quite dead, for his throat was so cut that his head was half
off, it would do him no service to bring him away: so
they lest him where they sound him, only took him
down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.
However just cur men thought this action to be, 1 was
against them in it: and I always, after that time, tcld
them God would blast the voyage: for I looked upon
the blood they shed that night to be murder in them:
for though it i- true that they killed Thomas Jeffrys.
yet it was as true that jeffrys was the aggrestor, had
broken the truce, and had violated or debauched a
young woman of theirs, who came to our camp innocent-
ly, and on the faith of their capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said, it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that
the war was begun the night before by the natives
themselves, who had stiot at us, and killed one of our
men w'.houtany just provocation: so that, as we were
in a capacity to sight them, we might also be in a ca-
pacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extraordi-
nary manner: that though the poor man had taken li-
berty with a wench, he ought not to have been murder-
ed, and that in such a villainous manner : and that they did
nothing
nothing but what was just, and that the laws ofGod al-
lowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been- enough to
have warned us against going on shore among heathens
and barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind
wife, but at their own experience; and their experience
seem? to be always of most use to them, when it k
dearest bought,
We were now bound to the Gulph of Persia, and from
thence tc the coast ofCoromandel, only to touch at Su-
rat but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the
bay of Bengal, where, if he missed of the business out-
ward-bound, he was to go up ta China, and return to
the coast as he came home.
The sir ft disaster that befel us was in the Gulph of
Persia, where five of our men, venturing on shore on
the Arabian side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the
Arabs, and either all killed, or carried away into sla-
very; the rest of the boat's crew were not able ta
rescue thenv, and had but just time to get off their
boat; I began to upbraid them with the just retribution
of heaven in this cafe; but the boatswain very warmly
told me, he thought I went farther in my censures than
I could shew any warrant for in scripture,-and referred
rx> the thirteenth of St. Luke, ver. 4. where our Saviour
intimates, that those men, on whom the Tower of Si-
loam fell, were not sinners above all the Galileans ; but
that which, indeed, put me to silence in this cafe, was*
that none of these five men, who were now lost, were of
the number of those who went on shore to the massacre
of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our men*
could not bear the word massacre with any patience) j
and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have (aid, put
me to silence for the present.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject
had^ worse consequences then I expected ; and the boat-
swain, who had been the head of the attempt, came
up boldly to me onetime, and told me, he found that
I continually brought that affair upon the stage; that
I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
Kien very ill on that account, and himself in particu-
lar: that as I was but a passenger, and had no com-
H5 mand
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I
might have some ill design in my head,8 and, perhaps,
call them to an account for it, when they came to Eng-
land ; and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have
done with it, and also not to concern myself farther
with him, or any of his affairs, he wouM leave the ship;
for he did not think it was safe to sail with me among
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told him, that s did confess I had all along op-
posed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that I had on all occasions spoken
my mind freely about it, though not more upon him
than any of the rest , that as to my having no command
in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any au-
thority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind m
things which publicly concerned us all; as to what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his
business; I was a considerable owner of the ship, and
in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, even
farther than I had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or any one else; and began to be a little
warm with him: he made but little reply to me at
that time, and I thought that affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal: and, being
willing to fee the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when
one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not
have me trouble myself to comedown to the boat, for
they had orders not to carry me on board. Anyone
may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes-
sage ; and I asked the man, who bade him deliver that
errant to me? He told me the cockswain, I said no
more to the fellow, but bid him let them know he had
delivered his message, and that I had given him no an-
swer to it.
I immediately went, and found out the supercargo,
and told him the story, adding, what I presently fore-
saw, viz. that there would certainly be a mutiny in the
ihip; and intreated him to go immediately on board the
ship in. an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I
had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on
board: the boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and
in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone
off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and de-
fired to speak with the captain; and there the boat-
swain, making a.long harangue (for the fellow talked
very well,) and repeating all he had said to me, told
the captain in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any vio-
lence with me; which, if I had not gone on shore, they
would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, that as they
stripped tnemselves to serve in the ship under his com-
mand, they would perform it faithfully : but if I would
not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it,
they would all leave the ship, and fail no farther with
him : and at that word ALL, he turned his face about
towards the main-mast, which was, it seems, the signal
agreed on between them ; at which all the seamen being
got together, they cried out, One and ALL, One and
ALL. .
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised,
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly
he would consider of the matter; but that he could do
nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it: he used
some arguments with them, to shew them the unreason-
ableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in
vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his
face, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
engage to them not to suffer me to come on board the
ship.
This was an hard article upon him, who knew his
obligation to me, and did not know how I might take
it; so he began to talk cavalierly to them; told them#
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, an<J
that in justice he could not put me out of my own
house ; that this was next door to serving me as*, the fa-
mous pirate Kid had done, who made the mutiny in
he ship, set the captain on more in an uninhabited
H 6 istand,
island, and ran away with the ship: that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to Eng-
land again, it would coll them dear ; that the ship was
mine, and that he would not .put me out of it r and that
he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleas-
ed. However, he would go on shore, and talk with
me there ; and invited the boatswain to go with him,
and perhaps they might accomodate the matter with
me.
But they all rejected the proposal; and said, they
would have nothiug to do with me no m»re, neither
on board, noron shore; and if I came on board, they
would go on shore. Well said the captain, if you are
all of this mind let me go on shore', and talk with him;
so away he came to me with this account, a little after
the message had been brought to me from the cock-
swain,
I was very glad to fee my nephew, I must confess;
for I was not without apprehensions that they would
confine him by violence, set sail, and run away, with
the stiip ; and then I had been stript naked in a remote
country, and nothing -.o help myself: in short, I had
been in a worse case than when I was all alone in the
island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my
great satisfaction ; and when my nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and
shook hands, that they would one and all leave the
fiup, if I was suffered to come on board, I told him, he
should not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on
ihore; 1 only desired he would take care and fend me
all my necessary things on shore, and leave me a suffici-
ent sum of money, and I would find my way to Eng-
land as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but
tmere was no way to help it, but to comply with it.
So in short, he went on board the ship again, and satis-
fied the men, that his uncle had yielded to their im-
portunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ihip. So the matter was over in a very few
hours:
hours; the men returned to their duty, and I begun to
consider what course I should steer.
I was now alene in the remotest part of the world,
as I think I may call it; for I was near three thousand
leagues, by sea, farther off from England, than I was
at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Baslbra by sea, up the Gulph of
Persia, and from thence might take the way of the ca-
ravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo and Scan-
deroon; from thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France : and this, put together, might be, at
least, a full diameter of the globe ; but, if it were to be
measured, I suppose it would appear to be a great deal
more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for
some English ships, which were coming to Bengal, frcm
Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and get pailage oa
board them for England: but as I came hither without
any concern with the English East-India company,-so it
would be difficult to go from hence without their
licence, unless with great favour of the captains of the
ships, or of the company's factors; and to both I was
an utter stranger.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by con-
trarities, to fee the ship set sail without me; a treat-
ment, J think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except from pirates running away with a
ihip, and setting those that would not agree with their
villainy on shore; indeed this was the next door to
it, both^ways: however, my nephew left me two ser-
vants, or rather, one companion, and one servant j
the first was clerk to the purier, whom he engaged to
go with me; and the other was his own servant; I
took me alio a good lodging in the house of an Eng-
lish woman, where several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here 1 was handsomely enough entertained; and
that I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing, I
stayed here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself; 1 had sum English
goods with me, of value, and a considerable some of
money,
money, my nephew furnishing me with a thousand*
pieces of of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I
had occasion, that 1 might not be straitened, whatever
might happen >
I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage
too ; and, as I originally intended, I bought here some
very good diamonds, which, of all other things was the
most proper for me, in my circumstances, because I
might always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for
my return to England; but none falling to my mind,
the English merchant, who lodged with me, and with
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, came
to me one morning , Countryman, fays he, 1 have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with
my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with your's
also, when you ihall have thoroughly considered it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by accident, and I
by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote
from our own country ; but it is in a country, where, by
us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got: if you will put a thousand pounds
to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the
first we can get to our minds; you (hall be captain, 111
be merchant; and we will go a trading voyage to China;
for what should we stand still for? The whole world is
in motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures
of God, heavenly bodies, and earthly, are busy and dili-
gent : why should we be idle? There are no drones,
fays he, living in the world but men: why should we
be of that number?
I liked this proposal very well, and the more, because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and
in so friendly a manner; I will not say but that I might,
by my loose and unhinged circumstances, be the fitter
to embrace a proposal for trade, and, indeed, for any
thing else ; or otherwise, trade was none of my element:
however, I might, perhaps, fay, with some truth, that
if trade was not my element, rambling was ; "and no pro-
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never
seen before, could poiSbly come amiss to me.
It
It was, however, some time before we could get a
ship to our mind; and when we got a vessel it was not
easy to get English sailors; that is to fay, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the
sailors which we should pick up there; after some time
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men;
with these, we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have written the
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it
would be but very little diversion to any body, to give
a long account of the places we went to, and the people
who inhabit there; those things I leave to others, and
refer the reader to those journals and travels of English-
men, many of which, I find, are published, and more
promised every day: it is enough for me to tell you,
that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, first; and from thence to Siam, where we ex-
changed some of our wares for opium, and for some
arrack; the first, a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was very
much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Suiham,
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and
returned to Bengal; and I was very well satisfied with
my adventure. I observe that our people in England
often admire how the officers, which the company fend
into India, and the merchants which generally stay there
get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes
come home worth sixty, seventy, and an, hundred thou-
sand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall fee so much
farther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
then be no wonder; and much less will it be so, when
we consider, that at all those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant
demand for the growth of all other countries, that there
is a certain vent for the return, as well as a market a-
broad for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so
much money by %he first adventure, and such an insight
into
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
years younger, I should have been tempted to haveitaid
here, and sought no farther for making my fortune: but
what was all this to a man on the wrong fide of three-
score; that was rich enough, and came abroad more in
obedience to a restless desire of feeing the world, than a
covetous desire of getting in it? And, indeed, I think,
it is with great justice that I now call it a restless desire $
fork was so: when 1 was at home, 1 was restless to-^o
abroad; and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at
home. 1 fay, what was this gain tome? I was rich
enough already; nor had I any uneasy desires about
getting more money; and therefore, the profits of the
voyage to me, were things of no great force to me, for
the prompting me forward to farther undertakings:
hence I thought, that by this voyage I had made no
progress at all; because I was come back, as I might CaH~
it, to the place from whence I came, as to an home;
whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satisfied with feeing, was still more desirous,
of wandering and seeing. I wa> come into a pWt of the
world which J never was in before, and that part in par-
ticular which I had heard much of; and was resolved to
fee as much of it as I could; and then I thought I might
fay, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions;
I do not name this to insist upon my own* for I acknow-
ledge his was most just, and the most suited to the end of
a merchant's life; who, when he is abroad upon adven*
tures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is like to get the most money by;
my new friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,
and would have been content to have gone like a car-
rier's horse, always to the fame inn, backward and for-
ward, provided he could, as he called it, find his ac-
count in it: on the other hand, mine, old as I was, was
the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to fee
a thing twice over.
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatkace
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled
resolution imaginable, which way to go ^ in the inter-
val of these consultations* mj friend, who was always
upoa
upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
to me, viz. among the fpice-islands ; and to bring home
a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts;
places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but the islands
belong partly to the Spaniards; though we went not io
far, but to some other, where they have not the whole
power as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficul-
ty was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last:
nothing else offering, ard finding that really stirring
about and trading, the prosit being so great, and, as I
may Jay, certain, had more pleasure in it, and more sa-
tisfaction to the mind, than fitting still; which, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on
this voyage too; which. we made very successfully,
touching at Borneo, and several islands, whose names I
do not remember, and came home in about five mor.ths:
we fold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away for the Gulph; and making near five of one, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up -this account, smiled at
me; Well now, said he, with a sort of an agreeable in~
suit upon my indolent temper, is not this better than
walking about here, like a man of nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and igno-
rance of the Pagans? Why truly, said I, my frieitd, I
think it is; and I begin to be a convert to the principles
of merchandizing; but I mult tell you, said, iy the
way, ypu do not know what I am doing; for if once
1 conqaer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old
as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the world till
1 tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never
let youliestilL
But to be ihort with my speculations; a little while
after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she
Hvas a coaster, not an European trader, and of about
two hundred tons burden: the men, as they pretended,
having been so sickly, that the captain had not men
enough to go to sea with,- he lay by at Bengal; and, as if
having got money enough, or being willing, for other
reasons, to go for Europe, he gave publick notice, that
he
he would sell his ship: this came to my ears before my
new partner heard of it: and I had a great mind to buy
it: so I went home to him, and told him of it; he con-
sider § awhile, for he was no rash man neither : but, mu-
sing some time, he replied, She is a little too big: but,
however, we will have her. Accordingly we bought the
ship; and, agreeing with the mailer, we paid for her,
and took posseilion: when we had done so, we resolved
to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with
those we had, for the pursuing our business : but on a sud-
den, they having not received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we afterwards learnt, not one of
them was to be found. We enquired much about them,
and at length were told, that they were all gone toge-
ther by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's
residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat, and
so by sea to the gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as
that I missed the opportunity of going with them; for
such a ramble, I thought> and in such company as would-
both have guarded me, and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design ; and I mould both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came
to know what fort of fellows they were; for, in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were at-
tacked on the more by some of the Malaccans, who had
killed the captain and three of his men , and that afcer
the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did;
and had brought her in at the bay of Bengal, leaving
the mate and five men m^re on shore ; of whom we shall
hear farther.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we did
not, I confess, examine into things so exactly a5
we ought; for we never enquired any thing of the
seames, who, if we had examined, would certainly
have faulteredin their accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps,, contradicted, themselves;, or, one
who
how or other, we should have seen reason to have sus-
pected them; but the man shewed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Closterfhoven, or some such
name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called him-
self by that name ; and we would not contradict him ; and
being withall a little too unwary, or at least, having no
suspicion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.
However, we picked up some English seamen here
arter this, and some Dutch; and we now resolved fora
second voyage to the south-east, for cloves, &c. that is
to fay, among the Phillippine and Malacca istes; and
in short, not to nil this part of my story with trifles, when
what is yet to come is ib remarkable, I spent, from first
to last, six yczr* in tjus country, tracing from port to port
backward and forward, and with very good success; and
was jtow the last year with my partner, going in the ship
above-mentioned, on a voyage to China; but designing
first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the streights of Ma-
lacca,'and among the islands, we were no sooner got clear
of those difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port;
and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia;
for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson,
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself: This river lies on the north-fide of the great
bayorgulph, which goes up to Siam.
Whil e we were here, and going often on shore for re-
freshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman,
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an En-
glish East-India ship, which rode in the same river,
up at, or near the city of Cambodia; what brought
him hither we knew not; but he comes up to me, and,
speaking English, Sir, says he, you are a stranger to me
and I to you ; but I have something to tell you, that very
nearly concerns you,
I looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
a* first I had known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, ars^ not yourself^ what moves yoa
to
to tell it me? I am moved, fays he, by the imminent
danger you are in; and for aught I fee, you have rfo
knowledge of it. I know no danger I am in, said I, but
that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I
propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to fee if I can
find it out. But, fir, fays he, leaky, or not leaky, find it,
or not find it, you will be wiser than to l«iy your (hip on
snore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to
you: Do you know, sir, said he, the town of Cambodia
lies about fifteen leagues up this river? and there, are
two large English shins about five leagues on this fide,
and three Dutch. Well, said I, and what is that tome?
Why, sir> fays he, is it for a man that is upon such ad-
ventures as you are, to ceme ir.£G jH*rt, and not examine
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to
deal with them? I suppose you do not think you are a
match for them. I was amused very much at his dis-
course, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
Sir, I with you would explain yourself; I cannot ima-
gine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the com-
pany's ships, or Dutch (hips; I am no interloper;
what can they have to fay to me?
He looked like a man half angry, half pleased;
and, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, sir, says he, if
you think yourself secure, you must take your chance;
I am sorry your fate should blind you against good
advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to
sea immediately, you will the very next tide, be at-
tacked by sive long boats full of men; and, peiipp~»
if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirates*and
the particulars be examined into afterwards: I thought,
fir, added he, I should have met with a better recep-
tion than this, for doing you a piece of service of sach
importance. I can never be ungrateful, said I, for
any service,^ to any man that offers me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension, said t, what
they should have fuch^a design upon me for,* How-
ever, since you say there is no time to be lost, and
Chat there is some villainous design in hand against me,
I v^ill go on board this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can
swim without stopping it: Dut sir, said I, shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give
me no farther light into it?
I can tell you but part of the story, sir, fays he; but
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and, 1 believe, I
could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it : but the snort of the story is this, the
first part of which, I suppose, you know well enough,
viz. That you were with this ship at Sumatra; that
there your captain was murdered, by the Mallaccans,
with three .of his men; and that you, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ihip,
and ^are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum of
the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can
assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for
you know merchants ships shew but little law to pi-
rates, if they get them in their power.
Now you speak plain English, said J, and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that we have done^
like what you talk of, but I am lure we came honestly,
and fairly by the ship, yet, feeing such work is a
doing, as you fay, and that you seem to mean honestly,
I will be upon my guard. Nay, sir, says he, do not
talk of being upon your guard; the best defence is to
be out of the danger; if you have any regard to your
life, and the lives of all your men, put out to sea,
without fail at high-water ; and as you have a whole tide
before you,, you will be gone too far out before they
can come down; for they will come away at high-
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them by the difference of the
tide, not reckoning the length of the way. Besides,
as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not
venture to follow you far out to sea, eipecially if it
blows* -
W-el], said I, you have been very kind in this: What
fhalH do for you, to snake you amends? Sir, fays he,
yoa may bot rbe so .willing to make me amends, be-
cause yimmay nat be convinced of the truth of it; I
will make an ciier to you; I have nineteen months pay
«ue to me on board the ship— —, which I came put
ei Englajrf m; and the Dutchman, that is with me, has
* *' '• '* seren
seven months pay due to him; if you will make good
four pay to us, we will go along with you; if you find
nothing more in it,e will desire no more; but if we
do convince you, that we have saved your life, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will ^leave
the rest to you.
I consented to this readily; and went immediately on-
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came
to the strip side, my partner who was on board, came
out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great
deal of joy, O ho I O ho ! we have stopped the leak I
we have stopped the leak 1 Say you so, said I, thank
God; but weigh the anchor then immediately :# Weigh!
fays he; What do you mean by that? What is the mat-
ter? fay she. Ask no questions, said I, but all hands
to work, and weigh, without losing a minute: He was
surprised: But however he called the captain, and he,
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and
though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land-
breeze blowing, wejfoodouttosea: then I called him
into the cabin, and told him the story at large; and we
called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as
it took us up a great deal of time, so before we had done,
a seamen comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us
that the captain bade him tell us, we were chased:
Chased, said I, by whom and by what? By five stoops,
pr boats, said the fellow, full of men. Very well, said
I; then it is apparent there is something in it. In the
next place, I ordered all our men to be called up; and
told' them, that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they
would stand by us, and by on* another,? The men an-
swered, chearfully, that one and all, they woujd live and
die with us. Then I asked the captain, what way iie
thought best for us to manage a fight with them: For,
resist them I resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily, that the way was to keep them
them off with our great shot, as long as we could, and
then to fire at them with our small arms, to keep them
from boarding us; but when neither of these would do
any longer, we would retire to our close quarters; per-
haps they had not materials to break-open our bulk-
heads, or get in upon us.
° The
"The gunner had in the mean time, orders to bring
-two guns to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to
clear the deck, and load them with mufquet-bullets, and
small pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand;
and thus we made ready for fight: but all this while kept
out to sea, with wind enough, and could fee the boats at
a distance, being five large long-boats following us, with
all the fail they could make.
Two of these boats, which by our glasses, we could
fee, were English, had outsailed the rest, were near two
-leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably;
so that we fired they would come up with us: upon
which we found a gun without a mot, to intimate that
they should bring to: and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley: but they kept crowding after
us, till they came within shot; upon this we took in
our white flag, they having made no answer to it,
hung out the red flag, and fired at them with shot: Not-
withstanding this, they came on till they were near
* enough to call to them with a speaking trumpet, which
we had on board: so we called them, and bade them
keep off at their peril.
It was all one, they crouded after us, and endeavour-
ed to come under our stern, so to board us on our quar-
ter: Upon which, feeing they were resolute for mis-
chief, and depended upon the strength that followed
them, I ordered to bring the ihip to, so that they lay
upon our broadside, when immediately we siredsive
-guns at them : one of them had been levelled so true as
to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and
bring them to the necessity ofc taking down their fail,
and running all to the head of the boat to keep her
from sinking: so slie lay by, and had enough of it;
but, seeing the foremost boat still crowd on after us, we
made ready to fire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one c* three boats that
was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made
up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and
we could afterwards fee her take out the men : we called
again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her business with us:
but had no answer; only stie crowded close under our
stern.
stem. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dextrous,
fellow, run out his two chace guns, and fired at her;
but the shot miffing, the men in the boat shouted,
waved their caps, and came on 5 but the gunner, get-
ting quickly ready again, fired among them a second
time; one mot of which, though it missed the boat
itself yet fell in among the men, and we could easily
see, had done a great deal of mischief among them;
but we, taking no notice of that, weared the ship again,
and brought our quarter to bear upon them; and, firing
three guns more, we found the boat was split almost to
pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece of |ier
stern, was shot quite away; so they handed their sail
immediately, and were in great disorder; but, to com-
plete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water: upon this I immediately manned
out our pinnance, which we had kept close by our side,
with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately to come
on board with them; because we saw the rest of the
boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace,
followed their orders, and took up three men; one of
which was just drowning, and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as they were on
board, we crowded all the fail we could make, and
stood farther out to sea; and. we found, that when the
other three boats came up to the first two, they gave
over their chace.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I
knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much
greater than I apprehended; I took care that we would
change our course, and not let any one imagine whitner
wa were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite
out os the course cf ill European ships, whether they
t% ere bound to China, or any where else, within the
commerce of the European nations.
When we were now at sea, we began to consult
with the two seamen, and enquire first, what the
meaning of all this should be? The Dutchman let us
into
into the secret of it at once; telling us, That the fel-
low that fold us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had ran away with her. Then he told us
how the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three ofhis
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got
into the woods, where they wandered about a great
while; till at length, he in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
which sailing near the ihore, in its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part os the more where the boat was,
but made (hist in the night, to take in the water farther
off, and, swimming a great while, at last the ship's boat
took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two
of die seamen belonging to the (hip had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their travels; and gave an ac-
count, that the fellow who had run away with the ship,
fold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an
English ship, and two Dutch ships, very richly laden.
This latter part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said,
very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and they
had such a propoiTeffion against us before hand, it had
been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to
hope for any good quarters at their hands^ especially
considering that our accusers had been our judges, and
that we cou!4 have expected nothing from them but
what rage would have dictated, and ungoverned pafSoa
have executed: and therefore it was his opinion, we
should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came
without putting in at any port whatever 5 because there
we could give an account of ourselves, and could prove
where we were when the ship put in, whom we bought
her of, and the like: and which was more than all the
rest, if we were jlfl$i© the necessity of bringing it before
the proper judge^l^e mould be sure to have some jus-
tice 1 and not bt^i&nged first, and judged afterwards*
Yot*Mi I I was
194 amlbntur.es op
I was some time of my partners opinion; but after
a little more serious thinking, 1 told sum, I thought it
was a very great hazard for us ttf attempt returning to
Bengal, for that we were on the wrong fide of the
freights of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given,
we mould be sure to be way-laid on every iide, as well
by the Dutch of Batavia, as the English else-where;
that if we should be ta^en, as it were, running away, we
should even condemn ourselves, and there would want
no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that
we should certainly be taken.'
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the
ship's company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast ofTonquin, and so on to China; and
from thence pursuing the first design, as to trade, find
some way or other to dispose of the ship, and coma
back in some of the veisels of the country, such as we
could get. This was approved of as the best method
for our security j and accordingly we steered away N.
N. E. keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual
.course to the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconveniences; far
first, the winds, when we came to that distance from
the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us blow-
ing almost trade, as we call it, from the east, and E. N. E.
so that we were a long while upon our voyage; and we
were but ill provided with victuals for so long a rum$
and, which was still worse, there was some danger, that
those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us,
whereof some were bound that way, might be got in be-
fore us; and if not, some other ship., bound to China,
mjghtliave information of us from them, and pursue us
with the fame vigour.
I mustcconfeis, I was now very uneasy, and thought
myself, including the late escape from the long'bcats*
to have been inthe most .dangerous condition that ever
I was in through all my ^pafltiife.; for, whatever iU cir-
cumstances I bad been in* I was Clever pursued sot a
iMefbefore; nor had I ever .done any thing that me-
rited due" name of diflwnest, or fraudulent, muck less
thievish. I had chiefly been mine own enemy; or, as
laiay
ROBINSON CfctrfcdE, t$|!
I may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy feut my
own. ^ But now I was embarrassed k the worst condition,
imaginable.; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was
in noiepndition to make that innocence appear. And
if Ihaa been taken, it had been under a supposed «-uilt
of the worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among
the people I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it, I knew not; or what port or place
we should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned at first, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several ports of
that coast, told me, he would put in on the coast of
Cochinchina, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao, a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European fami-
lies resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, m order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly,
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very
much streightened for provisions, we came within fight *
of the coast very early in the .morning; and upon re-
flection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the
danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to mit into a
small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to fee if we could, either overland,
or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ship's were
in any port thereabouts. This happy step was? indeed
our deliverance \ for though we did not immediately fee
any European mips in the bay of Tonquin, yet, the next
morning, there came into the bay two Dutch ship's, and
a third without any colours spread out, but which we
believed to be a Dutchman, passed by -at about two
leagues distance, steering for the the coast of China ; and
in the afternoon we went by two English ihips, steering
the fame course ; and thus we thought, we saw ourselves
beset with enemies, both one way and the other. The
place we were in was wild and barbarous the people
thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though
it is true, we had not much to kek of them, and ex-
•cept getting a few provisions* cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty
J * that
that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them se-
veral ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a
few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by
our boat we coasted north-east to the point of land
which opens to the great bay of Tonquin; and it was
in this beating up along the shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a word, we were surrounded with ene-
mies. The people we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no
correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only
in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it
may be particularly seen, that they are, as I said, the
most barbarous of any of the inhabitants; viz. that
among other customs they have this one, that if any
vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners; that
is to fay, staves; and it was not long before we found
a spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol-
lowing.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak
at sea, and that we could not find it out; and however
it happened, that, as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized
by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of Siam;
yet, as we did not find the ihio'o perfectly tight and
found as we desired, we resolved, while we were in this
place, to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things
we had on board, which were not many, and to wasti
and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to find out where
the leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened the {hip, and brought
all our guns, and other moveable things, to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom: for, on second thoughts, we did not care to
lay her dry aground, neither could we find out a pro-
place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a .sight,, came wondering down to the shore to
look at us: and seeing the ship lie down on one side
in a such a manner, and heeling towards the more, and
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bot-
tom,
torn, with stages, and with their boats on the off iide,
they presently concluded that the ship was cast away,
and lay so very fast on the ground.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats, having
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the
ship, and if they had found us there, to have earried us
away for staves to their king, or whatever they call him,
for we knew not who was their governor.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row
tound her, they discovered us all hard at work, on the
outside of the • ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man knows
now.
They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
design was; but, being willing to be sure, we took
this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition, to those
that were at work to defend themselves with, if there
should be occasion: and it was no more than need:
for, in less than a quarter of an hour's coniukation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck:
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or
to save our lives by the help of our boats:, and when
we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save
some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they all belonged to them: and away they came di-
rectly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of
batfle.
Ou>-men, seeing so many of them, began to be
frighted; for we lay but in an ill posture to sight, and cried
out to us to know what they should do. I imme-
diately called to the men who worked upon the stages
to slip them down, and get up the side into the
ihip: and bade those in the boat to row round and
come on, board: and those few of us who were on
board, worked with all the strength and hands we
had, to bring the ship to rights: but, however, neither
ths men upon the stage, nor those in the boats, could
I 3 do
cfo as they were ordered, before the Cochbchirtese were
,upon them: and, with two of their boats boarded our
long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout strong fellow, who having a musquet in his hand,
;never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like
u fool, as J thought. But he understood his business bet*
ter than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragged him by main force out of their own boat
into ours; where, taking him by the two ears, he beat
his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died
instantly in his hands; and in the meantime, a Dutch-
man, who stood next, took up the musquet, and with
the but-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked
down five of them, who attempted to enter the boat;
but thia was little towards resisting thirty or forty men,
w&f fearless, because ignt>rant of their danger, began to
throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had but
five men to defend it; but one accident gave our men a
complete victory, which deserved our laughter rather
than any thing else; and that was this:
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of
the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulk-
ed her, to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let
down into the boat; one silled with boiling pitch, and
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff as
the stiipwrights used for that work; and the man that
tended the carpenter had a great ;ron ladle in his hand,
with which he supplied the men that were at work with
that hot stuft*; two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore
sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladleful of
the stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half-naked, that they roared out like two bulls,
and enraged with the sire, leaped both into the sea.
Tihe carpenter saw it, and cried out, Well done Jack,
give them some more of it; when stepping forward
Jxjnself, he takes one of their nA>s, and dipping it in
the pitch pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentifully, that, instiort, of all the men in three boats,
$her«was not one lhatwas not scalded and burnt with
it
ROBINSON" *! HITS &E". ^
it in a moiMrightful pitiful manner, and mai^ suck an
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise,
and, indeed," no, thing like it; for it was worth observing*
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out,
yet every nation have a particular way of exclamation,
and make noises as different from oft another as
their speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures
made a better name than howling, nor a nan*e more
proper to the tone of it; for I never heard any thing
more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have
said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Lan-
guedoc.
I was never pleased with a victory better in my life :.
not only as it was a perfect surprise to me,- and that our
danger was imminent before; but as we got this victory
without any bloodihed, except of that man the fellow
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor savage-
wretches, even though it was in.my own defence,, know-
ing, they came on errads which tliey thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary .wickedness
-in nature: yet 1 thought it was a fad life, when we must
be always obliged to be killing our fellow creatures to
preserve ourselves; and indeed, 1 think so still; and I
would, even now, suffer a great deal, rather, than I
would take away the life even of the worst perso%j|*Ju-
ringrae. I believe also, all considering people, ho
knewthe value of life, would be of my opinion, if they
entered seriously into the consideration of it.
But to jpetorn to my story : ail the hile this was do-
ing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men
on boards had with great dexterity, brought the ship
a^aiost to* rights; and having gotten the guns into
jheir plac||again, the gunner called to me, to bid our
float get outof the way, for he would let fly among
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not
offer to fire,for the carpenter would do the work i<h-
out him ; but bid him heat another pitch kettle; h ich
our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the
finetny was so terrified with what they met with in their
irst attack, that they would not come on again; and
I 4 some
ieme of them, that were farthest off feeing the ship
iwira, as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to
fee their mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it
not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry
fight; and, having gotten some rice, and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen gccd big hogs, on board, two
days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go
forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt
but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues
enough, perhaps mere than our pitch-kettle would dis-
pose of for us.
We, therefore, got all our things on board the fame
evening, and the next morning were ready to fail. In
the mean time, lying at an anchor some distance from
the shore,1 we were not so much concerned, being now
in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if
any enemy had presented. The next day, having finish-
ed our work within beard, and finding our ship was
perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set faily we would
have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to
inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in,
as we supposed, but a little before ; so we kept on N. E.
towards the isle of Formosa, as much afraid of being
seen by a Dutch or English merchant jhip, as a Dutch
or English merchant ship in the Mediterrean is of an
Algerine man of war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E, as
if we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine islands,
and this we did, that we might not fall into the way of
any of the European ships; and then we steered north
again, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 20 nun.
by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in
all their agreements and bargains 5 which is what me did
not find among ether people^ and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here
by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, anb! is a testimony
of
©f what I have soften observed, vi2. that the* christian
religion'-always civilizes the people, and-reforms their
manners, where it is received, whether it works saving
effects upon them or no.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast
of China at an equal distance, tiH we knew we were
beyond all the ports of China, where our European
ships usually come: being resolved, if possible* not to
fall into any of their hands, especially in this country,
Where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of
being entirely ruined: nay, so great was my fear in par-
ticular, as to my being taken by them, that I believe
firmly I would much rather have chosen to fall into the
hands of the Spanish inquisition.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we
resolved to put into the first trading port we should come
at; and, standing in for the lhore, a boat came off two
leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer
his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board: upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he* came in,
and sent it back. l^
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make
the old man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulph of Nan-
quin, which is the most northern part of the coast of
China. The old man said he knew the Qidph of Nan-
quin very well 5 but, smiling, asked us *yhat we would
do there,
I told him we would fell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, callicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks,
Sec. and so would return by the same course we came*
He told us our best port had been to have put in at Ma-
cao, where we could not fail of a market for our opium,
to our satisfaction, and might, for our money, have
purchased all forts of China goods, as cheap as we could
at Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk,
of which he was very opiniated, or conceited, I told
him, we were gentlemen, as well as merchants; and
that we had a mind to go and fee the great city of
I 5 Pekia
Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of Chins*
Why then, fays the old man, you should go to Ningpo^
where, by the river that runs Into the sea there, you may
go up within five leagues of the great canaL This
canal is a navigable made stream, which goes through*,
the heart of all that vast empire of China, crosses all the
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of slui-
ces and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being,
in length near 270 leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now : the great question is, If you can carry
us up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel
to Pekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do sa
very well, and there was a great Dutch ship gone up that
way just before. This gave me a little shock ; a Dutch
{hip was now our terror, and we had much rather have
met the devil, at least if he had not come in too fright-
ful a figure: we depended upon it, that a Dutch ship,
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition^
to fight them ;. all the ships they trade with in those parts
being of great burden,, and of much greater force thai*,
we were*
The old man found me a little confused,, and under
some concern, when, he named a Dutch ship; and said*
to me, Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the
l)utchj I suppose they are not now at v\ ar with your na-
tion. "No, said.I, that's true; but I know not what li-
berties men may take,, when the} are out of the reach,
of the laws of the country. Why,,said he, you are no*
pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle
with peaceable merchants sure.
If 1 had any blood in my body that did not fly up into*
my face at that word, it was hindered by some stop In >
the vessels appointed by nature to circulate it; for it
put me inta the greatest disorder and confusion imaginable:
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that
the old man easily perceived it.
Sir, said he, I find you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which/
way you think fit; and depend upon it, I'll do you all
the service I can. Why, Seignior, said I it is true, L
am a little unsettled m my resotutipn at this time,
whither
whither to go in particular; and I am something more
so, for what you said about pirates: I hope there are no
pirates in these seas, we are hut in an ill condition to meet
with them: for you fee we have but small force, and but
very weakly manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be concerned, I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen
years, except one, which was seen, as I hear, in the bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may be assured
she is gone to the southward: nor was ihe a ship of any
great force, or fit for the work: she was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew
that were on board, after the captain and some of his
men.had been murdered by the Malaccans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.
What! said I,,seeming to know nothing of the matter,
Did they murder the captain r No, said he, I do not
understand that they murdered him: but, as they after-
wards ranaway with the snip, it is generally believed
* they betrayed him into the hands of the Malaccans, who
did murder him: and, perhaps, they procured them to
doit. Why then, said I, they deserve death, as much
as if they had done it themselves. Nay, said the old
man, they do deserve it: and they will certainly have it
if they light upon any English or Dutch ship: for they
have all agreed together, that, if they meet that rogue,
they will give him no quarter.
But, said I to him, you say the pirate is gone out of
these seas; how can they meet with him them? Why,
that is true, said he, they do say so: but he was, as I
tell you, in the bay of Siarn in the river Cambodia, and
was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged
to the ship, and who were left on ihore when they run
away with her; and some English and Dutch traders be-
x kig in the river, they were within a little of taking him.
Nay, said he, if the foremost boats had been well second-
ed by the rest, they had certainly taken him: but he,
finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about
and fired at these two, and disabled them, before the other
cameup ; and then standing off to sea, the others were
not able to follow him, and so he got away. But they
have all so exact a description of the ihip that they
16 will
will be sure to know him; and where-ever they find
him, they have vowed to give no quartet to either the
captain, or the seamen, but to hang them all up at the
yard-arm.
What! said I, will they execute them right or wrong,
Bang them first, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
laid the old pilot, there is no need to make a formal bu-
siness of it with such rogues as those; let them tie them
back to back, and set them a diving; it is no more than
they rightly deserve,
I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he
could do me no harm; so that I turned ihort upon him:
Well, now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very reason
why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to-
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the coun-
try, where the English or Dutch ships come: for, be it
known to you, Seignior, those captains of the English
and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent
fellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, or
how to behave themselves, as the laws of God and na-
ture direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murder-
ers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult
men falsly accused, and determine them guilty without
due enquiry , and perhaps I may live to call some of
them to an account for it, where they may be taught
how justice i^ to be executed; and that no man ought to
be treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had
of the crime, and that he is the man.
With this I told him, that this was the very ship they
bad attacked : and gave him a full account of the fkir-
»isti we had with their boats, and how foolislily and
coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story
of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served
us. I told him the reasons I had to believe that this
story of killing the master by the Malaccans was not
true; as also the running away with the ship: but that
it was all a fiction of their own, to suggest that the men
were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure
it was so, before they had ventured to attack us by sur-
prise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that they
would
would have the blood of those men, who were killed
jthere, in our just defence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation; and told
us, we were very much in the right to go away to
the north; and that if he might advise us, it ihould be
to fell the ship in China, which we might very well do,
and buy or build another in the country: and, said he,
tho* you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get
one able enough to carry you and all your goods back
again to Bengal, or any where else.
I told him I would take his advice, when I came to
any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get
any customer to buy this. He replied, I Ihould meet
with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me very weH to go back
again; and that he would procure me people botfpto buy
one, and sell the other.
Well, but, Seignior, says I, as you fay they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures,
be instrumental to bring some honest innocent men into
a terrible broil, and, perhaps, be murdered in cold blood;
for where-ever they find the ship they will prove the
guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship:
and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and
murdered. Why, said the old man, I'll find out a way
to prevent that also : for as I know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the
wrong: that though the people who were on board at ,
first might run away with the ship, yet it was not true
that they had turned pirates: and that in particular those
were not the men that first went off with the (hip, but
innocently bought her for their trade: and I am per-
suaded they will so far believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautiously for the time to come. Well, said I, and
will you deliver one message to them from me? Yes,
I will fays he, if you7 will give it under your hand* in
writing, jthat I may be able to prove it came from you,
and not out of my own head. I answered, that I would
readily give it him under my hand. So I took a pen,
and iak, and paper, and wrote at large the story of
assaulting
assaulting me with the long-boats, &c. the pretended
reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of it; and con--
eluded to the commanders that they had done what they
not only should have been ashamed of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I lived to fee them
there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the taws of
my country were not grown out of use before I arrived
there.
My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked
me several times, if I would stand to it. I answered, I*
would stand to it as long as 1 had any thing left in the
world; being sensible that I should, one time or other*,
find an opportunity to put it home to them. But
we had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this let-
ter ; for he never went back again. While those things
were passing between us, by way of discourse, we went'
forward directly for Nanquin, and, in about thirteen days
fail, came to anchor at the south west point of the-
great gulph of Nanquin: where, by the way, I came
by accident to understand, that the two Dutch ships
were gone that length before me, and that I mould cer-
tainly, fall into their hands. I consulted my partner
again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as
I was, and would very gladly harve been, safe on shore
almost any-where. However, I was not in such per-
plexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was
no creek or harbour, which I might put into, and pur-
sue my business with'the Chinese privately, and be in no
danger of the enemy? He told me, if I would sail to*
the southward about two and forty leagues-, there was a
little port called Quinchang, where the fathers of the
mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress to
teach the. christian religion to the Chinese, and where not-
European ships ever put in; and, if I thought proper to
put in there, I might consider what farther course to take
when I was on more. He confessed, he said, it was not,
a place for merchants, except, that at some certain times
they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of
the port, as he callel it, I may, -perhaps. IpeR wrong?
lor
for t do not particularly remember it, having lost this>
together with the names of many other places set down
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water,
on an accident which I shall relate in its order: but this
I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we
correspond with, call it by a different name from that
which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it
as above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolutions tœgo to this
place, we weighed the next day, having only .gone
twice on shore, where we were to get freih water ; on both
which occasions the people of the country were very
civil to us, and brought us abundance of things to fell
to u6; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice,
and some fowls ; but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary)
not till five days ; but it was very much to our satisfac-
tion; and I was joyful, and, I may fay, thankful, when
I set my foot safe on shore; resolving, and my partner
too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our sa-
tisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that un-
happy vessel again; and indeed, I must acknowledge,
that of all the circumstances of life that ever I had any
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely
miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does
the scripture fay, « The fear of man brings a snare;' it
is a life of death; and the mind is so entirely suppressed
by it, that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits
•sink, and all the vigour of nature, which usually sup-
ports men under other afflictions, and is present to them
in the greatest exigencies, fails them here.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy,
by heightening every danger; representing the Engiiih
and Dutch captains to be men uncapable of hearing rea-
son., or distinguishing between honest men and rogues;
©r between a story calculated for our own turn, made
©ut of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true ge-
nuine account of our *hole voyage, progress, and de-
sign; for we might many ways have convinced any
reasonable creature that we were not pirates : the
goods we had on board, the course we steered, oar
frankly
frankly shewing ourselves, and entering into such and
such ports; even our very manner, the force we had,
the number of men, the few arms, little ammunition
and mort provisions; all these would have served to con-
vince any man that we were no pirates. The opium,
and other goods we had on board, would make it appear
the ship had been at Bengal r the Dutchman, who, it
was said, had the names of all the men that were in the
ship, mighr easily fee that we were a mixture of Eng-
lish, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen
on board. These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander, whose hands we might fall into,
that we were no pirates.
But fear, that blind useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the imagination at work, to
form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps, might
never happen ; we first supposed, as, indeed, every body
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English
and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so en-
raged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our
beating off their boats, and escaping, that they would
not give themselves leave to enquire whether we were
pirates or no ; but would execute us off-hand, as we call
it, without giving us any room for a defence. We re-
flected that there was really so much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce .enquire after any
more; as, first, that the ship was certainly the fame,
and that some of the seamen among them knew her,
and had been on board her; and secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that they
were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats,
and fled; so that we made no doubt but they were as
folly satisfied of our being pirates, as we were satisfied
of the contrary; and I often said, I knew not but I
should have been apt to have taken the little circum-
stances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my
cafe was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or, perhaps,
considering, what they might have to offer in their
defence.
Bat
But let that be how it will, those were our appre-
hensions; and both my partner and I too scarce slept a
night without dreaming of halters, and yard-arms;
that is to fay gibbets 5 of sighting, and being taken;
of killing, and being killed; and one night I was in
such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I &uck my double fist against the side of
the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my
hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the stem: so that it not only waked me out of
my sleep, but I was once afraid I should have lost two of
my singers.
Another apprehension I had, was, of the cruel usage
we should meet with from them, if we fell into their
hands; then the story of Amboyna came into my head,
and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they
did our countrymen there; and make some of our men,
by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they
never were guilty of; own themselves, and all of us, to
be pirates; and so they would put us to death, with a
formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this, for the gain of our ship and cargo;
which was worth four or five thousand pounds, put all
together.
^ These things tormented me, and my partner too;
night and day; nor did we consider that the captains of
ships have no authority to act thus; and if we had sur-
rendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the
destroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable
for it when they came into their own country. This, I
&Yg gave me no satisfaction; for, if they will act thus
wiai us, what advantage would it be to us that they
would be called to an account for it: or, if we were
first to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us
to have them punished when they came home?
I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections
I now had upon the past variety of my particular cir-
cumstances ; how hard I thought it was, that I, who had
spent forty years in a life of continued difficulties, and
was, at last, come, as it were, at the port or haven
which all men drive at, viz. to have rest and plenty,
should
should be a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own un-
happy choice; and that I, who had escaped so many
dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime I
was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of; and
in a place and circumstance, where innocence was net
like to be any protection at all to me.
After these thougkts, something os religion would
come in; and I would be considering that this seemed
to me to be a disposition of immediate providence; and
I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such ; that
although 1 was innocent as to men, I was far from
being innocent as to my maker; and I ought to look
n, and examine what other crime* m my life were most
obvious to me, sand from which Prlmdense might juu-
ly inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I
ought to submit to this, just as I wouldNo a shipwreck, if
it had pleased God to have brought such a diiaster upon
me.
In its ,tum, natural courage would sometimes take
its place^f^aifd then I would be talking myself up to vi-
gorous resolution, that I would not be taken to be
barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in
cold blood; that it was much better to have fallen into,
the hands,of the savages, who were men-eaters, and
who, I was sure, would feast upon me, when they had.
taken me, than by those, who would, perhaps, glut their
~rage upon me, by inhuman tortures and barbarities;
that, in the cafe of the savage?, I always resolved to
die fighting, to the last gasp; and why mould I not do
so now, seeing it was much more dreadful, to me at least,
to think of falling into these men's hands, than ev.erit
was to think of being eaten by men: for the savages,
give them their due, would not eat a man till he was
dead; and killed him first, as we do abullcck; but
that these men, had many r.rts beyond the cruelty of
death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure
to put myself into a kind of fever, with the agitations
of a supposed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes
sparkle, as if I was engaged; and I always resolved
that I would take no quarter at their hands: but even
piast, if I could refiibno longer, I would blow up the
Hiip, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of.
But how much the greater weight the anxities and
perplexities of those things were to our thoughts while
we were at sea, by so much the greater was our satis-
faction, when we saw ourselves on shore; and my part-
ner told me, he dreamed, that he had a very heavy
load upon his back, which he was to carry up an hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it:
but the Portugueie pilot came, and took it ofFhis back,
and the hill disappeared, the ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain: And truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a load taken off their backs.
For my part, I-had a weight taken off from my
heart, that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
I said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that
ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a. warehouse for
our goods, which, by the way, was much the fame:
it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to
it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which it seems
there were not a few in the country. However, the
magistrates allowed us all a little guard, and we had
a soldier with a kind of halbert, or half-pike, who
stood centinei at our door; to whom we allowed a pint
of rice, and a little piece of money ,T about the value of
three pence »per day, so that our goods were kept very
safe. -^"
The fair of mart, usually kept in this place, had been
over some time; however, we sound that there were
three or four junks in the river, and two Japanners, I
mean, mipi^from Japan, with goods which they had
bought in China, and were not gone away, having Ja-
panese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was
to bring us acquainted with three missionary Romisti
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there
some time, converting the people to* Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor work of it; and mnde
them but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that-was not our basineset Oae of theie. was & Ffeach-
man,
man, whom they called father Simon; he was ar jolly
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation,
not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did,
one of whom was a Portuguese* and the other a Geno-
ese; but father Simon was courteous, easy in his-man-
ner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, viz. to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, where
ever they had opportunity: we often eat an drank with
those men: and though I must confess, the conversion,
as they caU it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far
from the true conversion, required, to bring heathen
people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount
to lktle»more than letting them know the name of Christ,
fay some prayers to the Virgin Mary, and her son, in
a tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like; yet it must be confessed, that these
religious, whom we call Missionaries, have a firm belief
that these people should be saved, and that they are the
instrument of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with
the most violent tortures, for the fake of this work;
and it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever
opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner of
their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and
who have no prospect of the least temporal advantage to
themselves;
But to return to my story ; This French priest, father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief
of the mission, to- go up to Pekin, the royal feat of the
Chinese emperor ; and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macoa, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met together, but
he was inviting me to go that journey with him, telling
me, how he would shew me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire: ^nd among the rest, the greatest city
hi the world; a city, said he, that your London, and
our Paris, put together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is vary great, and
infinitely
infinitely full of people: but, as I looked on those
things .with different eyes from other men, so I shall
give my opinion of them in few words, when I come,
in the course of my travels, to speak more particularly
of them.
But first, I come to my friar or missionary: Dining
with him oae day, and being very merry together, I
shewed some little inclination ,to go with him; and he
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great
many persuasions to consent. Why, father Simon, say*
my partner, why should you desire our company ib
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can keep us company with any pleasure. O J
says he, you may, perhaps, be good catholics in time;
my business here is to convert heathens ; and who knows
but I may convert you too? Very well father, said I,
so you will preach to us all the way. I won't be trou-
blesome to you, said he; our religion doe> not divest us
of good manners; besides, said he, we are here like
countrymen; and so we are, compared to the place we
are in; and if you are hugonots, and I a catholic, we
may be all Christians at least ; at least, said he, we are all
gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being un-
easy to one another. I liked that part of his discourse
very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the Brasils ; but this father Simon did
not come up to his character by a great deal; for though
father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in
him neither, yet he hai not that fund of Christian
zeal, strict piety, and fin:ere affection to religion, that
my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said so
much.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but we had something
else hefore us at that time; for we had, all this while,
our ship and our merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtful what we ihould do, for we
were now in a place of very little business; and once I
was about to venture to fail for the river of Kilam; and
the city of Nanquin: But Providence seemed now more
visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs j and 1 was eacouraged from this very time to
think,
think, I mould, one way or other, get out of this entan-
gled circumstance, and be brought home to my own
country again ; though 1 had not the least view of the
manner; and. when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what method it was to be done.
Providence, I fay, began here to clear up our way a
little; and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
began to enquire, what goods we had; and, in the first
place, he bought all our opium> and gave us a very
g$Q& price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their- own coin* and some in small wedges,
of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head,
that he might perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
shrunk up his moulders at it, when at first proposed
to him; but in a few days after, he came to me, with
one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and
told me, he had a proposal to make to me, and that was
this: He had bought a great quantity of goods of us
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him)
of buying the ship; and that therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the (hip ; but if I would let the
fame men who were in the ship navigate her, he would
hire the ship to goto Japan; and would fend them
from thence to the Philippine islands with another
loading, which he would pay the freight of, before
they went from Japan; and that, at their return, he
would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal,
and so eager did my head run upon rambling, that
I could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of
going with him, and so to sail from the Phillippine islands
away to the South Seas; and accordingly 1 asked the
Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Phillippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no
he could not do that; for then he could not have the re-
turn of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan,
he feid* at the4hip*s return. Well, still I was for taking
him-at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner,
wiser thaiv myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers^asHW*ll of the- seas* as of the Japanese, who
are
area false, cruel, and treacherous people; and then of
the Spaniards at the Philippines ; more false, more cruel*
more treacherous, than they,
l>ut to bring this long turn of our affairs, to a conclu*
ficn; the first thing we had to do, was to consult
with the captain of the ihip, and with the men, and
know if they were willing, to go to Japan ; and, while
I was doing this, the young man, whom, as 1 said, my
nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to me and told me, that he thought that
voyage promised very fair, and that there was a great
prospect of advantage, and lie would be very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give
him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased
to order him; thaf"if ever he came to England, and I
was there, and alive, he would render me a faithful ac-
count of his success, and it ihould be as .much mine as I
pleased.
I was really loth to part with him? but, considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable,
and that he was a young fellow ^s likely to do well in
it as any I knew, I inclined to l£f him go; but first I
'told him I would consult my partner, and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
*aboutit; and my partner made a most generous offer:
he told me, you know it has been an unlucky ship, and
we both resolve not to go to sea in it again, if your
j&eward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage*
I'll leave my share os the vessel to him, and let him
make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
,one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us, the
-other shall be his own.
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my
young man, made him such an offer, I could do no>
less than offer him the fame; and all the ship's com-
jpany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the ihip to him in property, and took a writing from
:him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan* The Japan merchant proved a Tery
punctual honest man to him, protected him at Japan,
and got him a licence jo come on share* wMch th©
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained ; paid him
his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines,,
loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo
of their own, who trafficking with the Spaniards, brought
back European goods again, and a great quantity of
cloves and other spice ; and there he was not only paid
his freight very well, and at a very good price, but
being not willing to fell the ship then, the merchant fur-
nished him with goods on h:s own account; that, for
some money, and some spices of his own, which he
brought with him, he went back to the Manillas, to the
Spaniards, where he fold his cargo very well. Here,
having gotten a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got
his ship made a free (hip ; and the governor of Manilla
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and give him a licence to land there, and
travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe, with all his men.
He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he fold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, some how or other, to go to Jamaica with al 1
his treasure; and about eight years after came to Eng-
land, exceeding rich; of which I (hall take notice in
its place : in the mean time, I return to our particula
affairs.
Being now to part with the (hip, and ship's company,
it came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pence we should give to the two men, that gave us
such timely notice of the design against us in the river
of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a con-
siderable service, and deserved well at our hands;
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues
too, for, as they believed the story of our being
pirate*, and that we had really run away with the
ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the
design that was formed against us, but to go to sea with
us as pirates; and one of them confessed afterwards,
that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing, brought him to do it. However, the ser-
vice they did us was not the less ; and therefore, as I
had promised to be grateful to them, I sirst ordered the
money
money to be paid to them, which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; that is to fay, th«
Englishmen nineteen months pay, and to the Dutch-
men seven; and, over and above that, I gave each of
them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well; then I made the Englishman gun-
ner of the ship, the gunner being now made second
mate and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very flout
fellows, ]
We were now on more in China. If I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country, at Bengal,-
where I had many ways to get home for my money,
what could I think of myself now, when I was gotten
about a thousand leagues farther off from home,
and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of
return!
All we had for it was this; that in about four months
time there was to be another fair at that place where
we vvere, and then we might be able to purchase all
sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from
Nanquin, that would be to be fold, and would- carry us
and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very
well, and resolved to wait: besides, as our particular
persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch
ships came thither, perhaps we might have an opportu-
nity to load our goodsi and get passage to some other
place in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to* divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
nies into the country first, we went ten days journey*
to fee the City of Nanquin, a city well worth fee-*
irig indeed; they fay it has a million of people, in
it ; which, ^wever, I do riot believe ; it is regularly
built, the streets all exactly strait, and cross one ano-
ther in direct lines, which gives the figure of k great
advantage.
But when I came to compare the miserable feople of
these countries with oars; their fabrics, t&eir man-
ner of living, th ir government, their religkni their
Vol. II, K wealth
wealth, and their glory (as some call »t) I must con-
fess, I do not so much as think it worth naming, or
worth my white to "write of, or any that shall come after
me to read.
It is very observable, that we wonder at the. gran-
deur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the go-
vernment the manufactures, the commerce, and the con-
duct: of these people; not that they are to be wondered
at, or indeed, in the leafl to be regarded: but because,
having first a notion of the barbarity of those coun-
tries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevail .
there, we do not expect to find any such things so far
off.
Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to
the universal commerce os England, Holland, France,
and Spain? What their cities to ours, for wealth,
strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an in-
finite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a
few j links and barks, to our navigation, our mer-
chants fleet?, our large and powerful navies? Our
city of London has more trade than all their mighty
empire.. One English, or Dutch, or French man of
war of 80 guns, would fight with and destroy all
the stripping of China. But the. greatness of their
wealth, their trade, the power of their government,
and strength of their armies are surprising to us,-because,
as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation of
pagans, little better than savages, we did npt expect
such things among them; and this, indeed, is the ad-
vantage with which all their greatnes?, and power is re-
presented to us; otherwise it is in itself nothing at all;
for, as I have said of their (hips, so it may be. said of
their armies and troops; all the forces of their empire,
though they were to bring two millions of men into
the sield together, would be able to do nothing but ruin
thecouary, and starve themselves. If they were to
besiege a strong town in Flanders, of to fight a disci-
plined army, one line cf German cuirasliers, or of
French cavalry, would overthrow all the horse of €aita;
a million of their foot could not stand before 0112 em-
battled bod/ of our infantry, posted so as not to be tur-.
Tounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in
number 5 nay, I do not boast if I fay, that 30,000
^German or English foot, and 10,000 French horse,
would fairly beat all the forces of China. And so of
our fortified towns, and of the art of our Engineers, in
assaulting and defending towns; there is not a ibrtified
town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries and attacks of an European army; and at
the fame time, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Bunkirk^ provided it was not
starved: no, not in ten years iiege. They have fire-
arms, it is true, but they are ankward, clumsy, and
uncertain in going off; they have powder,, but it is of
no strength-; they -have neither discipline in the field,
exercise in their arms, skill to attacks or temper to re-
treat; and therefore I'must confess it seemed strange to
me when I came home, and heard our people iay such
fine things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese, because I saw and knew that
they were a contemptible herd or croud of ignorant
fordid slaves, subjected to a government qualified only
to rule such a people; and, in a word, for I am now
launched quite beside my design, I fay, in a word, were
.not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
were not die Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a croud of staves as they, the czar of
Muscovy might, witfi much ease, drive them all out of
their country, and, conquer them in one campaign;
and had the czar, who I iince hear is a growing prince,
and begins to appear formidable in the worlds fallen
this way, instep of attacking the warlike Swedes, in
which attempt none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him ; he might, by this time* have
been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten b>th«
king of Sweden at Narva, when thejatter was mik €Re
to six in number, As their strength and their gran-
deur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry,
is imperfect and impotent, compared t© the fame things
in Europe 5 also, in their knowledge, their learning,
•their ikill in the sciences, they have globes and spheres,
»and'a> fmatch of the knowledge of the mathematics;
-but when you come, to enquire into their knowledger
K 2 how
how *stior,t-%hted are the wisest of their students?
they know nothing os'the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies; and so grosty, absurdly ignorant, that when the
sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they fall a clattering
with all the drums and kettles in the country, to fright
the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of
oe/es.
As this is the only excursion of this kind which I
have made in all the account I have given of my
travels, so I shall make no more descriptions of coun-
tries and people: it is none of my business or any part
of my design: but giving an account of my own ad-
ventures, through a life of infinite wanderings, ar d
a long variety of changes, which, perhaps, few have
heard the like of, I (hail fay nothing of the mighty
places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have
yet to pass through, more than'relates to my own
story, and which my concern among them wiU mike
necessary. ' I was now, as near a^s T fcan compute, in
the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty de-
grees'north of the line, for we were returned from
Nanquin: I had indeed a mind to fee the city of Pekin,
which I had heard so mucji of, and father Simon impor-
tuned me daily to do it; at length his time of going
away being set, and the other missionary, who was to
go with him, being arrived from Macao, it was neces-
iary that we mould resolve either to go, or not to go;
so I referred him to my partner, and left it wholly to
'hisrchoice; who, at length, resolved it in the afHrma-
tive; and we prepared our journey. We set out
with very good advantage, as to_find3j| the way; fcr
we got leave to travel in the ,retiriue of one of their
mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate,
in the province where they reside, and who take great
state; upon them, travelling with great attendance; and
with grea,t homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoveristied by them, because all the
countries they pass through are obliged to fu|nisti
provisions for them., atid all lkdp%zt^mdknm. '.That
which* I particularly observed, as to our travelling
! witS
with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses,
from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had after
the market-price of the country, and the mandarin's
steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it
duly from us, so that our travelling in the retinue of
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in' him, but was,
indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other people travelling in the fame
manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, I fay,
was a great advantages him, for his country furnished
all the provisions for nothing, and he took all o'ur money
for them.
We were five and twenty days travelling to Pekin,
through a country infinitely populous^ but miserably
cultivated, the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though they boast so much
of the industry of the people; I say, miserable; aiid
so it is, if we, who understand how to? live, were to
endure it, or to compare it with our own', but not so to
these poor wretches, who knoit no other*.*" The pride
of thele people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothiifg but their poverty, which adds to that which
I call tneir misery. I must needs think the naked savages
of America live much more happy, because,' as they
have nothing, so they desire nothing ; whereas these are
proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere beggars
and drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible, and is
chiefly, shewed in their clothes ard buildings, and in the
keeping multitudes of servants or staves, and, which is
to the last degree ridiculous, ftieir contempt of all the
world but themselves.
I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary,
than here; and yet the roads here are well paved, and
well 1cept, and very convenient for travellers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to fee such an
naughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed
K 3 ingenuity
ingenuity is no more. My friend, father Simon, and I,,
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to fee the
beggarly pride of those people , for example, coming
by the house of a country gentleman, as father Simon
called him, about ten leagues ostv from the city of Nan-
quin, we had, first of all, the honour to ride with the
master of the house about two miles; the state he rode
in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of
pomp and poverty.
The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a
searamouch, or merry-andrew; being a dirty callico,
with all the tawdry-trappings of a fool's coat, such as
hanging-sleeves, taffety, and cuts and flashes almost ©a
every fide; it covered a rich taffety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testified, that his honour must needs
be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling crea-
ture, such as in England might sell for about thirty or
forty shillings; and he had two staves followed him oa
foot, to drive the poor creature along; he had a whip
in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about
the head as kis slaves did about the tail: and thus he
rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we
were told he was going from the city to his country
feat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before
us; and as we stopped at a village about an hour to re-
fresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door*
eating his repast; it was a kind of a garden, but he-
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand*
that the more we looked on him, the better he would be
pleased r
He sat under a tree, something like the pahnettotree,
which effectually shaded him over,the head, and on the
south side ; but under the tree also was placed a large
umbrella, which made that part look well enough:
he fat lolling back in a great elbow chair, be-
ing a heavy corpulent man, and his meat being
brought him by two women slaves, lie had two more
whose office, I think, few gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their service in, viz. one fed the 'scjuire with a
ifoon,
spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's beard,
and taffety vest, with the other; while the great fat
brute thought it below him to employ his own hands in
any of those familiar offices, which kings and monarchs
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers
of their servants.
I took this time to think what pain men's pride pats
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus
ill-managed, must be to a man of common fense;
and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
journey; only father Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice hnd
to feed on, in all his state; which he said he had the
honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dos«^
that an English hound would scarce have eaten, if it had
been offered him, viz. a mess of boiled rice, with a great
piece of garlic in it, and a little bag silled with green
pepper, and another plant whic^ they have there, some-
thing like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and
tasting like mustard; all this was put together, and a
small lump or piece of lean mutton boiled in it; and this
wa> his worship's repast, four or five servants more at-
tending at a distance. If he fed threat meaner than he
was fed himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very
coarsely indeed. '" 
As for our mandarin, with whom we travelled, he
was respected like a king ; surrounded always with his
gentlemen* and attended in all his appearances with
such-pomp, that I saw little of him but at a distance ; but
this "~ I observed, that there was not a horse in his
retinue, but that our carriers pack-horses in England
seem to me to look much better ; but they were so cover-
ed with equipage, mantles, trappings and such like
trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are fat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but
their feet and their heads.
% I was now light hearted*, and all my trouble and
perplexity that I had given an account of being over*
I had ao .anxious thoughts about me; whfch made this
*4 journey
jeurmey much the pleasanter to me; nor had I any ill
-accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
small river, my horse fell, and made me free of the
country, as they call it; that i- to fay, threw me in j the
place tfms not deep, but it Wetted me all over : I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set
down the names of several people and places which I had
occasion to remember, and which not taking due care
of, the leaves rotted, and the words were never after
to be read, to my great loss, as to the names of some
places which I touched at in this voyage. 7
At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with
me but the youth, whom my nephew the captain had
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved
very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nebedy
with him but one fervent, who was a kinsman. Asfcr
the Portuguese Pilot, he being desirous to fee the court,
we gave him his passage, that is to fay, bore his charges
for his cempany; and to use him as an interpreter, lea-
he understood the language of the country, and spoke
good French, and a little English ; and, indeed, this old
man was a most useful implement to us every where,;
for weh#&not been above a week ac Pckin, when he
came laughing; Ah, Seignior Inglese, said he, I have
something<to tell you, will make your heart glad. My
heart glad I said I; what can that be? I don't know
any thing in this country can either give me joy or
grief, to any great degree. Yes, yes, said the old man,
in broken English, make you glad, me sorrow; sorry
he would have said. This made me more inquisitive.
Why, said I, will it make you sorry? Because, said he,
you have brought me heie twenty-five days journey,
and will leave me to go back alone; and which tyay
shall I get to my port afterwards, witheut a ship, with-
out a horse, without pecune? So he called money 9
being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to
make us merry with.  r ,'
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovy and Polish merchants in the city, and they
were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks,;and he was sure
we would take the opportunity to go with them, and
leave
leave him behind to go back all alone. I confess, I
was surprised with thi > news : a secret joy spread itself
over mf whole soul, which I cannot describe, and never
felt before or since; and I had no power, for a good
while, to speak a word.to the old man: but at last I
turned to him.: How do you kno.tyr this r said I: are
you sure it is true? Yes, said he, |jJijet this morning, ia
the street, an old acquaintance of -mine, :an^ Armenian,
or one you call a Grecian, who is among.thgm^ he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to ai to Tonquin
where I formerly knew him, but has Haltered his mind*
and is now resolved to go back with .the caravan to
Muscow, and so down the river of Wblga to Astracan.
Well, Seignior, said I, do not be uneasy about being
left to go back alone: if this be a. method for my re-
turn to England, it shall be your fault if you go back
to JVIacao at all. We then went to consulting together
what was to be done, and asked my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it wculdsuit
with his affairs? He told me He would do just as I would
for he had settled all his affairs so well $t Bengal, and
left his effects in such good hands, that as we made a
good voyage here, if he could vest' it in China silks,
wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carnage,
he would be content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the company's {hips.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if gu£
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear his*
charges to Muscow, or to England, is he pleased; nor,,
indeed, were w^ to be esteemed over generous in that
part neither, if we had not rewarded him farther -y for
the service he had done us was really 'worth all that,,
and more: for he had not only been a pilot to us at
fea, but he had been also like a broker for us ot*
shore: and his procuring for us the Japan mercjiarit, \yas'
some hundred of pounds in ouf pockets. J$q we c'pnfuit^
ed together aboutf it: and, being willing t;p gratify him,,
which, wi.si indeed, but dping him justice, and very
willing also to have him with us besides, for*he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him % quantity of colaed gold, which as 1 com:
pute it, came to about 175 pounds sterling between us,
and to bear his charges, both for himself and. horse,
except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
to Ik him know what we had resolved; 1 told him, he
had complained of oar being like to let him go back
alone, and I was now to tell him we were reiolved he
should not go back a* all: that as we had resolved to
so to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he
louldgowr&tu, and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and said it was a long
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither,
nor to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
him, we believed it was so, and therefore we had re-
solved to do something for him, that should let him
see how sensible we were of the service he had done
us; and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him. what we had resolved to give him here, which
te might lay out as we would do our own; and that as
for his charges, if he would go with us, we would
set him safe ashore, (life and casualties excepted)
either in Muscovy, or in England, which he would,
at our owii charge, except only the carriage of his
goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us, he would go with us over the whole world;
and so, in short, we ail prepared ourselves for the jour-
ney. However, as it was with us, so it was with
the other merchants, they had many things to do;
and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was four
months and some odd days before all things were got
together. -
'It was the beginning of February, our style, when we
j(fet out. from Pekin; my partner and the old pilot had
I'one express back to the port where we had first put
iti, so Sfppte of some goods which we had left there;
and I, with I Chinese jnerchant, whom I had some
knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came t6 F^kin ca
his own affairs, went^ to Nanquin, where I bought
ifinety pieces of'fine damasks, with about two hundred
pieces of other Very fine l&ks, d»f several forts, some
mixed with gold, and bad all tfeese brought to Pekin
against
against my partner's return: besides this, we bought
a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other
floods: our cargo amounting, in these goods only*
to about three thousand five hundred pounds ster-
ling, which,.. together with tea, and some fine cal-
Kcoes, and three camel-loads of nut-megs and cloves,
loaded in all eighteen camels for our lhare, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-fix camels and horses in oar
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four fiundred horses
and camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty
men, very well armed, and provided for all events.
For, as the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked
by the Arabs, so are these by the Tarters; but they are
not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barba*
rous when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly ; for there were about sixty of
them who were merchants or inhabitants of Mufcow*
though of them some were Livonians, and to our parti-
cular satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the
guides, who were five in number, called all the gentle-
men and merchants; that is to fay, all the passengers,
except the servants, to a great council, as they termed
k. At this great council, every one deposited a certain
quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary expence of buying forage on the way, where it
was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like. And heref they
constituted the journey, as they called it, viz. They
named captains and officers to draw us all up, and give
the command in cafe of an attack, and gave every on#
their turn of command. Nor was this forming us into
order any more than what we found needful upon the
way, as fhallie observed in its place.
K6 The
The road all on this side of the country U very po-
pulous, and is full of potters, and earth-makers, that
is to fay, people that tempered the earth for the China
ware; and, as I was going along, our Portuguese pi-
lot, who had always something or other to fay to make
us merry, came sneering to me, and told me, he would
shew the greatest rarity in all the country; and that
I should have*fhis to fay, ©f China, after all the ill-hu-
moured things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing
which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was
very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
me, it was a gentleman's house, built all with China
ware. Well, said I,- are not the materials of their
building the product of their own country; and so it is-
ail China ware, it is not? No, no, fays he, I mean,
it is a house all made of China ware, Juch as you call
so in England: or, as it is called in our country, por-
celain. Well, said I, such a thing may be: How
big is it: Can we ctfrry it in a box upon a camel? If
we can, we will buy it. Upon a camel! said the old
pilot, holding up both his hands, why there is a family
of thirty people lives in it.
I was then curious, indeed, to fee it; and when I came
to it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house*
or a house built, as we call it in England, with lath
and plaister, but all the plaistering was really China
ware, that is to fay, it was plaistered with the^earth that
makes China ware.
-The outside, which the fun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, perfectly white, and paint-
ed with blue figures, as the large China ware in England
is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to
the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined
up with hardened and painted tiles, like the little square
tiles we call gaily-tiles in England, all made of the
finest China, and the figures exceeding fine indeed,
with extraordinary variety of colours, 'mixed with gold*.
many tiles making but one figure, but joined so artifi-
cially with mortar being made of the same earth, that
it was very hard to fee where the tiles met. The
floors of the rooms were of the fame composition*,
and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in
several
several parts of England, especially Lincolnshire, Not-
tingham shire, Leicestershire, &c. as hard as stone, and
smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller
rooms, Jike/closets, which were all as it were paved-
with the fame tile; the cielings, and in a word, all the
plaistering-work in the whole house, were of the same
earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles
of the fame, but of a deep mining black.
This was a China warehouse indeed, truly juid .lite-
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the^
journey, I could have stayed some days to fee and ex-
amine the particulars of it. They told me ther,e were
fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the
bottom and fides with the fame, and* fine statues set up
in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain
earth, and burnt whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
Hiay be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they.
excel in their accounts of it; for they told me such
incredible things of their performance in crockery-
ware, for such it is, that 1 care not to relate, as know-
ing it could not be true; one told me, in particular, of
a workman that made a ship, with all its tackle,
and masts, and fails, in earthen ware, big enough to
carry fifty men. If he had told me he launched it, and
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole
story, whicji was, in short, asking pardon for the word,
that the fellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to
it.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan,
for which the leader of it for the day fined me about
the value of three shillings; and told me, if it had
been three days journey without the wall, as it was
three days within, he must have fined me sour times as
much, and made me aik pardon the next council
dayr so I promised to be more orderly; for, indeed,
I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all'
together were absolutely necessary for our common
safety.
JOftwo days more we passed the "great China wall,
made for a fortification agakst the Tartars : and a yery
great
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in an
endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or,
indeed, climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could
hinder them. They tell us, its length is near a thou-
sand English miles, hut that the country is five hun-
dred in a strait measured line, which the wall bounds,
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes;
*tis about four fathom high, and as many thick in some
places.
I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without tres-
pafiing on our orders, for so long the caravan was in
passing the gate; I fa}, I stood still an hour to look at
it on every fide, near, and far off, I mean, what was
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who
had been extolling it for the wonder of the world,
was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
ium it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
tars, which he happened not to understand as I meant
it, and so tock it for a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed; O Seignior Inglese, said he you speak in co-
lours, fn colours! said I: what do you mean by
that? Why you speak what looks white this way, and
black that way; gay one.way, and dull another way;
you tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars;
•you tell me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep
€>ut Tartars; or, it will keep out none but Tartars: I
understand you, Seignior Inglese, J understand you, said
he, joking; but Seignior Chinese understand you his
own way.
Well, said I, Seignior, do you think it would stand
out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery; or our engineers, with two compa-
nies of miners? Would they not batter it down in ten
days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow
it up into the air, foundation and all, that there fliculd
be no sign of it left r Ay, ay, said he, I know that.
The Chinese wanted mightly to know what I said,
and I gave him leave to tell him a sew days after,
for we were then almost out of their country, and
he was to leave us in a little time afterwards; but #ien
he knew what I had said* he was dumb all the rest
of
231
Of Jie way, and we heard no more of his fine story of
the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
. After we had passed this mighty Nothing, called a
wall, something like the picts wall, so famous in Nor-
thumberland, and built by the Romans, we began to
find the country thinly inhabited, and die people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being
subject: to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars,
who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be re-
sisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country.
And here I began to find the necessity of keeping to-
gether in a caraven, as we travelled ; for we saw several
troops of Tartars roving about; but when I came to fee
them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese em-
pire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows;
for they are a mere herd or croud of wild fellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline, or man-
ner of fight.
Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught
nothing, and are fit for nothing; and this we found
the first day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country; our leader for the day
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting as
they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep!
However, it may be called hunting too; for the crea-
tures are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I
saw of their kind; only they will not run a great way,
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chace;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a flock*
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
fly. ;/
In pursuit of this odd fort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as,
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very
loud, but with a barbarous found that I had never
heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear
again., We all supposed this was to call their friends
about them; and so it was; for in less than half a
quarter of an hour a troop of forty or fifty more
appeared
appeared at about a,mile distance, but our work was
over first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Mufcow happened to
be amongst us: and as soon as he heard the horn, he
told us, in short, that we had nothing to do, but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and>
drawing us up in a line, he asked, if we were resolved;
We told him, We were ready to follow him: so he
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like
a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shewing the
face of any order at all; but as soon as they saw us ad-
vance, they let fly their arrows: which, however, mif-
fed us very happily; it seems they mistook not their
aim, but their distance: for their arrows all fell a little
short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we been
about 20 yards nearer, we must have had several men
wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted: and though it was at a
great distance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets
for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop,
resolving to fall in among them sword in hand: for
so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed,,
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and
bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool
courage too, that I never saw any man in action fitter
for command. As soon as we came up to them, we
fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable: the only
stand any of them made was on our right, where
three of them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of scymitar in
their hands, and their bows hanging at their backs^
Our brave commander, without asking any body to.
follow him, galloped up close to them, and with his.
fusiLknocked one of them off his horse, killed the
second with his pistol, and the third ran away : and thus
ended our .fight: but we had this misfortune attending
it, vi2. that all our mutton that we had in chace
got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as
for the Tartars, there we re, about five of them killed:
how many were wounded, we knew not 1 but this we
&new>
knew, that the other party was so frighted with the noise
of our guns, that they fled, and never made any at-
tempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominion?, and
therefore the Tartars were not ib bold as afterwards:
but in about five days we entered a vast great wild de-
sert, which held us three days and nights march; and
we were obliged to carry our water with us in great
leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have
heard they do in the deserts of Arabia.
J asked our guides, whose dominion this was in?
and they told me, this was a kind of border that
might be called No Man's Land; being part of the
Great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; but that how-
ever, it was reckoned to China; that there was no care
taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves;
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the
whole march, though we were to go over seme much
larger.
In pasting this wilderness, which, I confess, was at
the first view \~ery frightful to me, we saw two or three
times little parties cf the Tartars, but they seemed to be
upon their own,affairs, and to have no design upon us;
and so, like the man Who met the devil, if they had
nothing to say to us, we had nothing to fay to them; we
let them go. *'
Once, however, a party of them came so near as to
stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider what
they should do, viz. to attack us, or not attack us,
we knew not; but when we were passed at some dis-
tance by them, we made a rear-guard of forty men,
and stood ready for them, letting the caravan pass half
a mile, or thereabouts, before us; after awhile they
marched off, only we found they assaulted us with £vq
arrows at their parting; one of which wounded a horse,
so that it disabled him ;* and we left him the next day,
poor creature, in great need of a good farrier; we sup-
pose they might shoot more arrows, which might fall
stiort of-us; but we saw no more arrows, or Tartars, a|
that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways being
?iot so good as at first, though still in the dominions of
the
the ^mperor os China; but lay, for the most part, in
villages, some of whidT were fortified, because of the
incursions of the Tartars- When we came t® one of
these towns (it was about two days and an half's jour-
ney before we were to come to the City of Naum),
1 wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty
to be fold all the way upon that road/and of horses
also, -such as they are, because so many caravans coin-
ing that way, they are very often wanted. The person
that I spoke to, to get me a camel, would have gone
and fetched it for me; but 1, like a fool, must be
officious, and go myself along with him. The place
was about two miles out of the village, where it seems,
they kept the camels and horses feeding under a
guard.
I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being desirous, forsooth, of a little
variety. When we came to this place, it was a low
marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled
up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors;
having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I
came away; and the Chinese man, that went with me,
led the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars
on horseback; two of them seized the fellow, and
took the camel from him, while the other three
ikeppcd up t© me, and my old pilot; seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but
my sword, which could but ill defend me against three
horseman. The first that came up, stopped short upoa
my drawing my sword (for they are arrant cowards):
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow
on the head, which I never felt till afterward, and
wondered, when I came to myself, what was the mat-
ter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat on the
ground * but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese
{so Providence unlooked for directs deliverances frcm
dangers, which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol in hi*
yocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars nei-
ther; if they had, I suppose they would not have at-
tacked us; hut cowards are always boldest when there
is no danger.
* The,
The old man, feeing me down, with a bold heart
Hepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down
by main force a little towards him with the other, he
ihot him into the head, and laid him dead on the spot;
he then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped
us, as I said, and before he could come forward again
(for it was all done as it were in a moment) made a
blow at him with a fcymitar, which he always wore;
tiut, missing the man, cut his horse into the side of his
head, cut one of his ears off by the root, and a great
slice down the fide of his face. The poor beast, en-
raged with the wounds, was no more to be governed
by his rider, though the fellow fat well enough too ; but
away he flew, and carried him quite out of the pi-
lot's reach, and at some distance rising upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
in this interval the poor Chinese came in, who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon ; however, seeing
the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, he runs
to him, and, seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon
he had by his side, something like a pole-ax, but not a
pole-ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my
old man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and,
seeing he did not sty as he expected, nor come on to
sight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock-stili, the
old man stood still too and falls, to work with his
Tackle to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the
same or another, I know not, but away he scoured, and
left my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a
complete victory.
By this time I was a little awake; for I thought*
when I first began to awake, that I had been in a sweet
ileep;. but as I said above, I wondered where I was*
how I came upon the ground, and what was the mat-
ter; in a word, a few minutes after, as fense returned,
I felt pain, tho' I did not know where; I clapped my
hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I
kit my head ach » aai then, in another moment, me-
mory
mory returned, and every thing was present to me
again.
I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of
my sword, but no enemies in view. I found a Tartar
lie dead,* and his horse Handing very quietly by him;
and, looking farther, I saw my champion and deliverer,
who had been to see what the Chinese hadxdone, com-
ing back with bis hanger in his hand; the old man,
seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and em-
braced me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before
that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would
see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we
call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any
great inconvenience from the blow other than the place
which was hurt, and which was well again iri two or
three days.
We made no great gam, however, by this victory;
for we loft a camel, and gained a horse; but that which
was remarkable, when we came back to the village,
the man demanded to be paid for the camel: 1 disputed
it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chi-
nese judge of the place: that is to fay, in Englilh, we
went before a justice of the peace. Give him his _
due, he acted wish a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality j^and, having heard both fides, he gravely asked
the Chinese man that went with me to buy the ca'mel,
whose servant he was? I am no servant, said he, but
went with the stranger. At whose request? said the
justice. At the stranger's request, said he. Why then
{aid the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his
servant, wit as delivered to him, and he must pay for
it.
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had npt a word
to say : but admiring to see such just reasoning upon the
consequence, and so accurate stating the case, I paid
willingly for die camel, and sent for anotherr but you
may observe, I sent for it: I did'not go to fetch it my-
self any more ; I had enough of that.
The city of Nauru is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire : they call it fortified, aM so it is, as fortification s
go there; for this I will venture to affirm, that ail the
Tartars
Tartars in Karakathay, which J believe, are some mil-
lions, could not batter down the walls with their bows
and arrows; bat to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it
l&iigh at you.
We wanted, a$T have said, about two days journey
of this city, when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road, to tell all travellers and caravans to
halt, till they had a guard sent to them; for that an
unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all,
had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers: however, it
was carefully done of the governor, and we were very
glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly
two days after, we had 200 soldiers sent us from a gar-
rison of the Chinese on our left, and three hundred more
from the city of Naum, and with those we advanced
boldly: the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched
in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men
on each fide of our camels with our baggage, and die
whole caravan in the center; in this order, and well
prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for
the whole ten thouland Mogul Tartars, if they had ap-
peared r but the next day, when they dicl appear,, it
was quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when marching from a
little well-situated town, called Changu, we had a river
to pas?, where'we were obliged to ferry; a Ad had
the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the?
time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear
there. ,
About three hour? after, when we were entered upon
a desert of about 1 j or \6 miles, over, behold, by a cloud
of dust they raised, we saw an dhemy was at hand; and
they were at hand indeed,* fofc* fiify came on upipif tb£
ipur. .'
*''.;;Tfce\Chinese, our guarflori ttefr^tft, who had talked
so bijg the .d ay before, begatfCo stagger, and the soldiers
frequently looked behind thel|y wlilch is a certain %n
in a soldier, that he is jiijst ready to run away. My
old
old pilot was of my mind; and," being near me, he
called out, Seignior Inglese, said he, those fellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tar-
tars come on, they will never stand it. I am of your
mind, said I: but what course must be done? Done,
said he, let fifty of our men advance, and flank them on.
each wing, and encourage them, and they will fight
like brave fellows in brave company; but without it
they will evety jn^t«!trhis back. Immediately 1 rode
up to our leader, arid told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right
wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of
reserve -, for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
dred men to make another body to themselves, and to
euard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
lend an hundred men to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
ten thousand we thought was the least. A party of
them came on first, and viewed our posture, traversing
the ground in the front of our line; and as we found
them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings
to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot, which was done; but they went off,"
and I suppose went back to give an account of the re^
ception they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that
salute clogged their stomachs; for they immediately
halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling off
to the left, they gave over the design, and.said ne more
to us^forthat time, which was very agreeable to our
circumstances, which were but very indifferent for a
battle with fuck a number.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or
Naunm; we thanked the governor for his care for us,
and collected to the value of ioo crowns> or there 1
abouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us;
and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but tlte
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers
lay nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandoned that part of the country (which lies from
the city west, for about two hundred miles) as desolate
z and
and ur.fit /or use; and more especially^ being so very
remote, and so 4ifficuk to send troops hither for its de-
fence ; for we had yet aB#ve two thousand miles to Mus-
covy, properly so called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days pas-
sing over, and which, as I said, was to be called No
Man's land; and on the the 13th of April, we came to
frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the first
city, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be called,.
that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Ar-
gun, being on the west side of the river Argun.
I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction, that I
was now arrived in, as I called it a christian country;
or, at least, in a country governed by christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just de-
serve the name of christians; yet l&ch they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their way. It would cer-;
tainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have
done, and who had any power of reflection; I fay, it
would occur to him to reflect, what, a blessing it is to
be brought into the world where the name of God,
and of a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored,
and not where the people, given up by heaven to.
strong delusions, worlhip the devil, and prostrate them-
selves to stocks and stones 5 worship monsters, elements,,
horrible lhaped animals, and statues, or images of
monsters. Not a town or city we passed through but'
had their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and
ignorant people worshipping even the works of their,
own hands.
Now we came where^ at least, a face of the christian-
worlhip appeared, where the knee was bowed to Je-
sus; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the christian:*
religion was owned, and the name of the true God
was called upon, and adored; and it made the very
recesses of my foul rejoice to fee it. I saluted the brave
Scotch Merchant I mentioned above, with my first ac-
knowledgment of this; and, taking him by the hand**
1 said toiiim, blessed be God, we are once again comer
among christians. He smiled, and answered, do not
rejoice too soon, countryman j these Muscovites are
but
«4P AD&r&m T IT RE S O "F
hm*m1pd& ftrt of jahfistians; atid but for the name of
x^~ yg^may^fee very Ijtttle of the substance sot some
jiMMtl^farth er of, ©ar j ouru ey-.
Welit ifidl, but still 'tis better than paganism, and
^orfai§$mg*Df cfevi|s; ^Fliy, I'll tell you, said he;
except the Ruffian soldiers in garrisons , and a few of
the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, ali the rest
of this country, %r above -a thousand miles farther, is
inhabited by, the worst, and most ignorant of pagans;
and so indeed we found it.
* We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid
earth,, if I understand any thing of the surface of the
globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea,' east-
ward; we h-ad at least two thousand to the bottom of
the Baltic sea, westward; and almost three thousand
miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the British
and French channels; we hadr full five thousand miles
to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the frozen sea, north; nay, if some
people may be believed, there might be no sea north-
east till we came round the pole, and consequently into
the north west, and so had a continent of land into
America, no mortal knows where; though I could
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake
too*
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good
while before we came to any considerable town, we
had nothing to observe there but this; first, that all the
rivers run to the east. As I understood by the Charts
which some of our caravans had with them, it was
plain that all those rivers fan into the great river
Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural
courfeof it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese
ocean. The irory they, tell us,' that the mouth of this
river is ohoaked up;; with bulriisties of a monstrous
growths aviz. three feet ^bout, «and twertty or thirty
feet high, I must be allowed t& fa^f, I believe nothing
0i but Irs its navigation is of do use, oecauie there is
no trade that way, the Tanars, to whom alone it
belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle; so nobody that
ever I iead of, has been curious enough either to
go down to the mouth of it in boats* or come up from
the mouth of it in ships; but this is certain, that this
river running due east, in the latitude of 60 degrees,
carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds
an ocean to empty itself in that latitude; so we are sure
of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of this river there are se-
veral considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north
as the Yamour runs east; and these are all found to join
their waters with the great rivers Tartarus, named so
from the northermost nations of the Mogul Tartars,
who, the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers alledge, are the Gog and
Magog mentioned in sacred story.
The rivers running all northward, as well as all the
other rivers I ara yet to speak of, make it evident,
that the northern ocean bounds the land also on that
side; so that it does not seem rational in the least to
think; that the land can extend itself to join with
America on that side, cr that there is not a communi-
cation between the northern and the eastern ocean;
but of this I shall fay no more; it was my observation
at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this
place. We now advanced from the river Arguna by
easy and moderate journies, and were very visibly
obliged to the care the czar of Muscovy has taken, to
have cities and towns built in as many places as are)
possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison,
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Ro-
mans in the remotest countries of their empire, some of
which I had read were particularly placed in Britain for
the security of commerce, and so* the lodging of tra-
vellers; and thus it vas here; for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and
governor were Ruffians, and profested mere pagans, sa-
crificing to idols, and worshipping the fun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven: and not only so, but
were of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did no;
eat men's flelh, as our savages of America did.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite domi-
Vol. II L nice*-
mms* and a-city of Tartars and Russians together, cal-
ied Mertzinskay.; in which space is a contined desert or
forest, which coil us twenty days to travel over it. In
-a village, near the last-of those places, I had the curi-
osity, to go and fee their way of living; which is most
brutish and unsufterable; they had, I suppose, a great
sacrifice that day ; for there stood out upon an old stump
of a tree, an idol made of wood, frightful as the devil;
at least as any thing we can.think of to represent the
devil can be made ; it had an head certainly not so
much resembling any creature that the world ever saw;
ears as big as goats horns, and as high; eyes as big as
a crown piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended soar-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's underbill;
it was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you can
suppose; its upper garment was of fheep-ikins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it: it was about eight feet
high, yet had no sector legs, or any other proportion
of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the out-side of the vil-
lage; and when I came near to it, there were sixteen
or seventeen creatures, whetlier men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all flat on the
ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood.
I saw no motion among them any more than if they
had been logs of wood like their idol; at first I really
thought they had been so; but when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet; and raised an
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away as if n.ey were displeased at
our disturbing them. A little way off from this mon-
ster, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
stieep-fkins and cow-skins, dried, stood three batchers;
I thought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, I found they had long knives in their hands,
and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep
killed, and one young bullock, or steer. These, it
seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol;
and these three men priests belonging to it; and the se-
venteen
fenteea prostrated wretches were the people who
brought the offering, and were making their prayers to
that stock.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and
this brutifli worship of an hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my life; to fee God's most glorious
and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and
that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted
both to honour his maker, and be honoured by him;
1 fay, to fee it funk and degenerated to a degree so
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightful no-
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and
that this ihould be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought
up in hellish devotion by th? devil himself; who, en-
vying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting,
sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
ihock nature itself.
But what signified aH the astonishment and reflection
of thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw it before my
eyes; and there was no room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my admiration turned to rage; and
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you
will, and with my s»vord cut the bonnet that was on
its head in two in the middle, so that k hung down by
one of the horns; and one of our men that was with
ms took hold of the fneep-fkin that covered it, and
pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three
hundred people came about my ears, so that I was
glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from tiiat moment to vistt them
again.
Our caravan rested three nights at this town, which
was about four miles off, in order to provide some
horses, which they wanted, several of the horses hav-
ing been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way,
L 2 and
*nd our long march over the last: desert j so we had
some -leisure here to put my design in execution. I
communicated my project to the Scots merchant of
Moscow, os whose courage I had a sufficient testimony,
as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had sir.ee thought, that human nature
could be so degenerate. I told him, I was resolved, if
J could get but sour or rive men well armed to go with
me, to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol: to
let them see, that it had no power to help itself,
and consequently could not be an object of worship, or
to be prayed to, much less help them that offered iacri-
fices to it.
He laughed at me ; said he, Your zeal may be good;
but what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
said I, to vindicate the honour of God, which is in-
sulted by this devil-worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the honour of God .? said he, while the people
will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them too, and tell them so; and
then they will fight you too, I will assure you; for
they are desperate fellow-, and that especially in de-
fence of their idolatry. Can we not, laid I, do it in
the night, and then leave them the reasons in writing,
in their own language? Writing! said he, why there
is not in five nations of them, one man that knows any
thing of a letter, or how to read a word in any langu-
age, or in their own. Wretched ignorance! said 1
to him ; however, I have a great mind to do it -r perhaps
nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them
fee how brutish they are to worship such horrid things.
Lock you, Sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so
warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people
are subjected, by force, to the czar of Muscovy's do-
mimons j and if you do this,it is. ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinfkay, and
complain, and demand satisfaction: and if he cannot
give them satisfaction, it is ten to one but they revolt; and
it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in the
country.
2 This,
This I confess, put new thoughts into my head for
a while; but 1 harped upon the fame string still; and
all that day 1 was uneasy to put my project in execu-
tion. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met
me by accident in our walkabout the town, and de-
sired to speak with me: I believe, said he, I have put
you off your good design; I have been a little con-
cerned about it since; for I abhor the idol and idola-
try as much as you can do. Truly, said 1, you hav^
put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you hare
not put it all out of my thoughts; and, I believe, 1
snail do it still before 1 quit this place, though I were
to be delivered up to them for satisfaction. No, no,
f*id he ; God forbid they mould deliver you Up to such a
crew of monsters! they shall not do that neither;
that would be murdering you indeed. Why, sajd J,
how would they use me r Use you! said he; I'll tell
you how they served a poor Ruffian, who affronted them
in their worship just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that
he could not run away; they took him and stripped him
stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol mon-
ster, and stood all round him, and mot as many arrows
into him as would stick over his whole body ; and then
they burnt him and all the arrows sticking in him, as a
sacrifice to the idol. And was this the fame idol?
said I. Yes, said he, the very same. Well, said I,
I will tell you a story : so I related the story of our men
at Madagascar, and how they burnt andikokedthe vil-
lage there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before;
and when I had done, I added, that I thought we ought
to do so to this village,
He listened very attentively to the story; but when
I talked of doing so to that village, said he, you mis-
take very much; it was not this village, it was almost
a hundred miles from this place; but it was the fame
idol, for they carry him about in procession all over
the country. Well, said I, then that idol ought to be
punished for it; and it shall, said I, if I live this night
out.
L3 X»
In a word, finding me resolute^ he liked the design
and told me I should not go alone; but he would go
with me; but .he would go -firsty and bring a*stoutfe$«
low, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; and
one, said he, as famous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these. In
a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he caTIed captain Richardson; and I gave him a full
account of what I had seen, and also cf what 1 intend-
ed; and he told me readily, he would go with me, if
it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three.
I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner; but he de-
clined it. He laid, he was ready to assist me to the ut-
most, and upon all occasions, for my defence; but that
this was an adventure quite out of his way: so, I say,
. we resolved upon our work, only we three, and my
man-servant, and to put it in execution that night about
midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next night, because the caravan being
to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor
could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his power; the Scots merchant,
as steady in his resolution to enterprize it, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-
skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had
provided the fame for himself and his countryman, that
the people, if they saw us, mould not be able to deter-
mine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some com-
bustible matter with aqa-vitæ, gunpowder, and such
other materials as we could get; and, having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night,
and found that the people had not the Jeast jealousy of
danger attending their idol; the night was cloudy ; yet
the mepn gave us light enough to fee that the idol
stood just in the fame posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest, only,
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where
we
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butch-
er;, we saw a light, and, going up close to the door*
we heard people talking, as if there were ~ five or six
of them; we concluded therefore, that if we set wild,;
sire to the idol, these men would come out immediate,-
ly, and run up to the place to rescue it from the de-
struction that we intended for it: and what to do with
them we knew nor. Once we thought of carrying it
away, and setting sire to it at a distance; but when
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second
Scotsman was for setting sire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out; but I could not join with that;
I was against killing them, if it was impossible to be
avoided. Well then, said the Scots merchant, 1 will
tell you what we will do j we will try to take them pri-
soners, tie their hands, and make them stand and fee
their idol destroyed.
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough
about u«, which we used to tie our fire-works together
with; so we resolved ,to attack these people first, and
with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did,
we knocked at the door, when oac of the priests
coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, flopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him and led him to
the idol, were we gagged him, that he might not make
a noise; tied his feet also together, and left him on the
ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was;
but we waited so long till the third man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked again
gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
some distance from ope another j when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the door, and
a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two* and immediately tied them, when the third
stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant
went in after him, and taking out a composition we
L 4 had,
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set
^fire to it, and threw it in among them; by that time
the other Scotchman and my mair taking charge of the
two m«n already bound, and tied together also by the
acm, led them away to the idol, and left them there,
to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste
back to us.
When the Furze we had thrown in had filled the hut
with so much smoke that they were almost suffocated,
we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind,
which flamed like a candle, and, following it in, we
fcttnd there were but four people left, who, it seems,
were two men and two women, and, as we supposed,
had been about some of their diabolic sacrifices. They
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to
fit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither,
for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
other, and all without any noise. I should have said,
we brought them out of the house, or hut, first; for,
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more
than they were. When we had %!one this, we carried
them altogether to the idol; wken we came there we
fell to work with him; and first we daubed him all
over, and his robes also, with tar, and such other
stust'as we had, which was tallow mixed with brim-
stone; then we stopped his eyes, and mrt, and mouth
full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great
piece of wildfire in his bonnet; and then sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him,
we looked about to fee if we could find any thing else
to help to bum him: when my Scotsman remember-
ed, that by the tent, or hut, where the men were,
there lay aheap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes
I do not remember: away he and the other Scotsman
ran, and fetched their arms full of that. When we had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their feet, and ungagged their
mouths, and made them stand up, and set them just
before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the
whole.
We
We stayed by it a quarter of an hoarr ©r thereabouts,
till the powder in theeyes, and mouth, and ears of -the
idol blew up, and, as,we could perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it, and, in a word, till we few
it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be soon
quite consumed, so we began to think os going away;
but the Scotsman said: No, we must not go; for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the
fire, and burn themselves with the idol; so we resolved
to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then we
came away and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow tra-
vellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;
nor could any man suggest that we had been any-
where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed
to be to sit themselves for the fatigues of that day's
journey.
But it did not end so; for the next day came a great
multitude of the country people, not only of this vil-
lage, but of an hundred more, for aught I know, to
the town gates; and, in a most outrageous manner, de-
manded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the in«
suiting their priests, and burning their great Cham-
Chi-Thaungu ; such an hard name they gave the mon-
strous creature they worshipped; the people of Nert-
zin&ay were at first in a great consternation: for, they
said, the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and
that in a few days more, they would be 100,000
strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there
had not a foul of his garrison been abroad: that it
could not be from any body there: and if they would
let him know who it was, they should be exemplarily
punished. They returned, haughtily, That all the
country reverenced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who
dwelt in the fun, and no mortal would have dared to
offer violence to his image, but some Christian mis-
creant: so they called them, it seems, and they there-
L 5 fore
fore denounced war against him, and all the Russians,
wko, they said, were miscreants and Christians t
Thegovernor, still patient, and unwilling to make a
breach, or to have any cause of war alledged to be given
by him, the czar having straightly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave
them still all the good words he could; at last he told
them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morning, and, perhaps, it was some of them who had
4otiethem this injury; and that, if they would be sa-
tisfied with that, he would fend after them, to enquire
into it. This seemed to applease them a little ; and ac-
cordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a
particular account how the thing was; intimating with-
al, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should
qraake their escape; but that, whether they had done it
or no, we should make all the .haste forward that was
possible ;and that in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. However,
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew
any thing of die matter ; and, as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as
aiked us the question; however, the captain of the ca-
ravan, for the time, took the hint that the governor
gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and
two nights without any considerable stop, and then
-we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did we make
any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the czar of Muscovy's colonies,
amd whefe we expected we fhouldbe safe; but it is to
-fee observed, that here^we-feelpa, for two or throe
4$y* march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of
which I {hall fay more in its place; and which if we
had now been upon it, it is more than probable, we had
been aH destroyed. It was the second day's march
from Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at
a great distance, ibme of our people began to^e fen*,
sible we were pursued; we had entered the desert, anA
had pasted by a great lake, called Schanks Ofier, when
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on
the
the other side of the lake $0 the north, we travelling
west. We observed they went away west, as we did;
but had supposed we should have taken that side of the
lake* whereas we very happily took the south side; and
in two days more we saw them not, for they, believing
we were still before them, pushed on, till they came to
the river Udda; this is a very great river when it passes
farther north; but when we came to it, we found it nar-
row and fordable.
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and canæ pouring in upon us,
towards the dusk of the evening. We had, to our
great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our camp
which was very convenient for the night; for as we
were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of
it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but
the city Jarawena, which we had yet two days march
to; the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great
river Udda. It was in a narrow streight between two
small, but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the
night.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued
for; but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go
about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always
fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to
be pursued.
But we had this night, of all the nights of our tra-
vels, a most advantageous camp; for we lay between
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our
front; so that we could not be surrounded or attacked
any way, but in our front or rear; we took care also to
make our front as strong as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in aline on the
inside of the river, and we felled some trees in our
rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished our situa-
tion: they did not come on us like thieves, as we
L 6 expected,
expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand
the men to be delivered to them, that had abused their
priests* and burnt their god Cham-Chi Thaungu, that
they might burn them with fire; and, upon this, they
said, they would go away* and do us no farther harm,,
otherwise they would burn us all with fire. Our men
looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to fee who looked with most guilt in
their faces, but, nobody was the word, nobedy did it.
The leader of the caravan sent word, he was well as-
sured it was not done b> any of our camp; that we
were peaceable merchants travelling on our business;
that we had done no harm to them, or to any one else *
and therefore they must look farther for their enemies,
who had injured them, for we were not the people; so
desired them not to disturb us;. for if they did, we should
defend ourselves.
They were far from being satisfied with this for an
answer, and a great crowd of them came down in the
morning by break of day, to our camp; but seeing,
us in such an advantageous situation, they durst come no.
farther than the brook in our front, where then
stood, and shewed us such a number, as, indeed, ter-
rified us very much; for those that spoke least of them
spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked
at us a while, and then setting up a great howl, they
let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well
enough fortified for that, for we were sheltered under
our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of
us was hurt.
Some time after this> we saw them move a little to
our right, and expected them on the rear,, when a.
cunning fellow, a Cossack as they call them, of Jara-
wena, iii the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader
of the caravan, said to him, I will send all these people
away to Sibeilka ; this was a city four or five days
journey, at least, to the south, and rather behind
us. So he takes his bow and arrows; and, getting
on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as
it were, back to Nertzinfkay; after this, he takes a
great circuit about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them
a long
along story, that the people who had kurnt$heir Cham-
Chi-Thaungu were gone £q Sibeilka* with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them; that is to fay, christians $
and that they were resolves to burn the god Seal Isarg,
belonging to the Tonguses.
As this fellow was a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke
their language, he counterfeited so well, that they alt
took it from him, and away they drove, in a most vio-
lent hurry, to Sibeilka, which it seems, was five days
jsurney to the south, and in less than three hours they
were entirely out of our fight, and we never heard any
more of them, or ever knew whether they went to that
other place called Sibeilka, or no.
So we passed safely on to the City of Jarawena,
where there was a garrison of Muscovites ; and there we
rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly fatigued
with the last day's march, and with want of rest in the
night.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which held
us three and twenty days march. We furnished our-
selves with some tents here, for the better accommodating
ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro-
cured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country, for
carrying our water and provisions; and these carriages
were our defence every night round our little camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able
to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again aster
this long journey; for, in this desert, we saw neither
house or tree, or scarce a bum; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the fable-hunters, as they call them; these are
all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which thi* country
is a part; and they frequently attack small caravans:
but we law no numbers of them together. I was cu-
rious to see the fable-skins they catched: but I could
never speak with any of them; for they durst not come
near us, neither durst we straggle from our company to
go near them.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a
country pretty well inhabited; that is to fay, we found
towns and castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with
garrison*
garrisons of stationary soldiers to protect the caravans,
and defend the country against the Tarters, who would
otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
Czarisli majesty has given such strict orders for the well
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are
any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments of the
garrison are always sent to see travellers safe from sta-
tion to station.
And thus the governor of Adin&oy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots
merchant who was acquainted with him, offered us a-
guard of fifty men if we thought there was any danger,
to the next station.
I thought long before this, that as we came nearer
to Europe, we should find the country better peopled,
and the people more civilized; but I found myself mis-
taken in Both, for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses
to pass through ; where we saw the same tokens of pa-
ganism and barbarity, or wqrfe than before; only as
they were conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely re-
duced, they were not so dangerojis; but for the rudeness
of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in the
world ever went beyond them. They are clothed all in
the ikins of beasts, and their houses are built of the
fame. You know not a man from a woman, neither by
the ruggedness of their countenances, or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with
snow, they live under ground in houses like vaults,
which have cavities or caves going from one to ano-
ther.
Jf the Tartars had their Cham Chi Thaungu fora
whole village, or country, these had idols in every hut,
and every cave ; besides, they worship the stars, the fun,
the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thing that
they do not understand, and they understand but very
little; so that almost every element, every uncommon
tiling, sets them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to describe people than countries*
any farther than my own story comes to be concerned in
them. J met, with nothing peculiar to myself in all
this country, which, I reckon was, from the desert
which I spoke of last, at least, four hundred miles, half
of
os it* being another desert, which took us up twelve
days severe travelling, without house, tree pr frufh; but
were obliged again to carry ow own provisions,, as well
water as bread. After we were out of this desert, and
had travelled two day?, we canie to Ja»e$ay, a Mus-
covite city or station, on the great river Janezay, This
river, they told us, parted Europe from Afta, tho* our
map-makers, as I am told, do not agree to it; however,
it is certainly the eastern boundary of the antient Sibe-
ria, which now makes a province only of the vast Mus-
covite empire, but is itself equal W bigness fp the whoje
empire of Germany.
And yet here I observed ignorance %ni paganism still
prevailed, except ia the Muscovite garstsops | all the
country between the river Oby, and j&e river Janezay,
is as entirely pagan, and the people as ba^barpus, as the
remotest of the Tartars, nay, as any nation, for aught I
know, in Asia, or America. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite governors, whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the pagans are not much
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being under the
Muscovite government; which they acknowledged was
true enough, but, they said, it was none of their busi-
ness; that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian,
or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by
sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; asd they
added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not so much the concern of their monarch,
to make the people christians, as it was to make them
subjects.
From this river, to the great river Oby, we crossed a
wild uncultivated country; I cannot fay 'tis a barbarous
foil; 'tis only .barren of people, and good manage-
ment; otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful,
and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in
it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them
from Ruffia; for this is the country I mean on both
sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals,
that are not put to death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to xmpoffible they should ever come
away*
T have
I have nothing material to say of my particular
affairs, till I came to Toboliki, the capital of Siberia*
where I continued some time on the following occa-
sion.
We had been now almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and winter began to come on apace: whereupon
my partner and I called a council about our particular
affairs in which we found it proper, considering that
we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, to
consider how to dispose of ourselves: They told us of
sledges and rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the
winter-time : and, indeed, they have such things, as it
would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by
which means the Russians travel more in the winter than
they can in summer; because in these sledges they are
able to run night and day: the snow being frozen, is
one universal covering to nature, by which the hills,
the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth, and
hard as a stone; and they run upon the surface, without
any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey ar
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route two ways: either! must go on as the ca-
ravan went, till I came to Jariflaw, and then go off
west for Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so either
by fetor land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell
my China cargo to good advantage, or 1 must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence
I had but six days by water to Arch-Angel, and from
thence might be sure of shipping, either to England*
Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these joumies in the winter
would have been preposterous: for as to Dantzick, me
Baltick would be frozen up, and I could not get pas-
sage: and to go by land in those countries, was far
less safe than among the Mogul Tartars: likewise to
Arch-Angel, in October all the ships would be gone
from thence, and even the merchants, who dweU
there in summer, retire south to Moscow in the winter,
when the ships are gonei so that I should have no-
thing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scais-
cit
city of provisions, and must lie there in ah empty town
all the winter; so that, upon the whole, I thought it
much my better way to let the caravan go, and to make
provision to winter where I was, viz. at Tobolfki, in
Siberia, in the latitude of sixty degrees, where I was
sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
viz. plenty of provisions, such as the country afforded,
a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent com-
pany; of all which I shall give a full account in its
place.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved island, where I never felt cold, except when I
had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any
„fire but without doors, and my necessity, in dress-
ing my food, &c. Now I made me three good vests,
with large robes or gowns over them to hang down
to the feet, and button close to the wrists, and all
these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm.
As to a warm/house; I must confess, I greatly dis-
like our way in England, of making fires in every
room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up one
way, the door to come at the fire went in ano-
ther, and all the rooms were kept equally warm,
but no fire seen; like as they heat the bagnios in Eng*
land.
By this means we had always the fame climate in all
the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within;
^nd yet we saw no sire, nor were ever incommoded with
any smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should
be possible to meet with good company here, in a coun-
try so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of
Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within but a very
hw degrees of Nova Zembla.
But
But this being the country where the state criminals
bf Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished *
this city was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, co-
lonels,, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry,
soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the fa-
mous Prince Galilfken, or Galoffken, and his son, the
Qld General Robostiiky, and several other persons of note*
and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, whom, neverthe-
less, 1 parted with here, I made aji acquaintance
with several of these gentlemen, and some of them
of the first rank j and from these, in the long winter-
nights in which I stayed here, I received several
agreeable visits. It was talking one night with a cer-
tain prince, one of the banished ministers of state be*
longing to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my
particular case began. He had been telling me abun-
dance of fine things, of the greatness, the magnifi-
cence, and dominions, and the absolute power of
the emperors of the Ruffians. I interrupted him, and
told him, I was a greater and more powerful prince
than ever the Czar pf Muscovy was, though my domi-
nions were not so large, or my people so many. The
Ruffian Grandee looked a little surprised, and fixing
his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I
meant,
I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myself. First, I told him, I had the absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects:
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not
one person disaffected to my government or to my
person, in all my dominions. He shook his head at
that, and said, There, indeed, I outdid the Czar of
Muscovy. I told himf that all the lands in my king*
dom were my own, and all my subjects were not only
my tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all
fight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant,
for such 1 acknowledged myself to be, was ever so uni-
versally belpved, aad yet so horribly feared, by his
subjects*
After
After amusing them with these riddles in govern-
ment for a while, I opened the cafe, and told them
the story at large of my living in the island, and how
I managed both myself and the people there that were
under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially
the prince, who told me with a sigh, that the true
greatness of life was to be master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a state of life as
mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found
more felicity in the retirement he seemed to be banish-
ed to there, than ever he found in the higjeft autho-
rity he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar: that
the height of human wisdom was to bring our tern*
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storm with-
out. When he came first hither, he said, he used
-to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from
-his back, as others had done before him; but a little
lime and consideration had made him look into him-
self, as well as round himself, toothings without:
ithat he found the mind of man, if it was but outre
brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and
how little this world was concerned in its true fell-
xity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for
itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its #wn
foest ends and desires, with but very little afiistance
from the world; that air to breathe in, food to &£•
tain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exer-
icise, in order to health, compleated, in his opinion, all
thajfcrthe world could do for us: and though the great-
ness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had
enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was agree-
able to us, yet he observed, that ail those things chiefly
gratified the coarsest os our affections: such as ouir
ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our va-
nity, and our sensuality; all which were, indeed, the
mere product of the worst part of man, were in them-
selves crimes, and had in them the feeds of all man-
ner of crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those virtues that constituted us
wife
wise men, or of those graces which distinguished as as
Christians : that being now deprived of all the fancied
felicity, which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all
those vices, he said, he was at leisure to look upon the
dark side of them, where 4je found ail manner of defor-
mity; and was now convinced> that virtue only makes
a man truly wife, rich, and great, and preserves him in
the way to a superior happiness in a future state; and in
this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment
than all their enemies were, who had the full possession
of all the wealth and power that they (the baniihed) had
left behind them.
Nor, sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politically
by the necessity of my circumstances, which some call
miserable ; but if I krow any thing of myself, I would
not go back, no, not though my master, the Czar, should
call me, and offer to reinstate me in all my former gran-
deur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than 1 be-
lieve my foul, when it shall be delivered from this
prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious
state beyond life, would come back to the goal of flesh
and blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven to deal
in the dirt and grime of human affairs.
He ipake this with so much warmth in his temper,
so much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which
were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident
it was the true fense of his foul; and, indeed, there
was no room to doubt his sincerity.
I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a mo-
narch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account, but that I thought he was not a monarch
only, but a great conquerer; for that he that has got a
victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the
absolute dominion over himself, and whose reason
entirely governs his will, is certainly greater than he
that conquers a city. But, my lord, said I, shall I take
the liberty to ask you a question? With all my heart,
said he. If the door of your liberty was opened, said
I, would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself from
this exile ,?
Hold,
Hold, skid he, your question is subtle, and require!
some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere an-
swer; and I'll give it you from the bottom os my
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would
xnoye me to deliver myself from the state of banish-
meat, except thefe two; First, the enjoyment of my
relations $ and, secondly, A little warmer climate; but
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the
court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister
of state; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures,
that is to fay, follies of a courtier; if my master should
send me word this moment, that he restores me
to all he banished me from: I protest* if I know
my self at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace of
Moscow.
But, my lord, said I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, and authority, and wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore, but you may be absent too from some os the con-
eniencies of life; your estate, perhaps, confiscated,
and your effects plundered: and the supplies left you
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
life.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a lord,
or a prince, &c. So, indeed, I am; but you are now
to consider me only as a man, an human creature, not
at all distinguished from another : and so I can suffer no
want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dis-
tempers. However, to put the question out of dispute;
you fee our manner; we are in this place five persons of
rank; we live perfectly retired, as suited to a state of
banishment; we have something rescued from the ship-
wreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere
necessity of hunting for our food, but the poor soldiers
who are here, without that heip, live in as much plenty
as we. They go into the woods, and catch fables and
foxes ; the labour of a month will maintain them a year;
and as the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard
to get sufficient to ourielves; So that objection is out of
doors.
f I have
I have' no room to give a full account of the most
agreeable conversation I had with his truly great
man; and in all which he (hewed, that his mind was so
inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so sup-
ported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wis-
dom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the
fame to the last, as will appear in the story I am going
to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dark dreadful
winter I thought it to be; the cold was so intense,
that I could not so much as look abroad without be-
ing wrapt in stirs* and a maik of fur before my face,
or rather a hood, with only an hole for breath, and
two for sight. The iittle day-light we had, was, as
we reckoned, for three months, not above five hours a
day, and fix at most; only that the snow lying on the
ground continually, and the weather clear, it was
never quite dark. Our horses were kept (or rather
starved) under ground; and, as, for our servants (for
we hired servants here to look after our horses and
selves), we had every now and then their ringers and toes
to thaw, and take care of, lest they should mortify and
fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of
deer, dried and cured in the season ; good bread enough,
ut baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and
ome flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes, which is pretty
good beef. All the store of provision for the winter
are laid up in the summer, and well cured; our drink
was water mixed whh aqua vitae instead of brandy;
and, for a treat, mead instead of wine; which however,
they have excellent good. The hunters, who ventur-
ed abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh
venison, very fat and good : and sometimes bears flesh,
but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
flock of tea* with which we treated our friends as above;
and, in a word, we lived very chearfully and well, all
things considered.
It
It was now March, and the days grown consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerable ; so
other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going;
but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Arch-
Angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well, that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world till
May or June: and that if I was there at the beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any ships would-be
ready to go away; and therefore, I fay, I made no
haste to be gone, as others did? in a word, I saw a
great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away
before me. It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscow for trade, viz. to carry furs, and buy
necessaries with them, which they bring back to fur-
nish their shops; also others went on the fame errand
to Arch-Angel; but then they also, being to come
back again above eight hundred miles, went out all
before me.
In sliort, about the latter end of May, I began to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it
occurred to me, that seeing all these people were ba-
nished by the C2ar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet,
when they came there, were at liberty to go whither
they would; why did they not then go away to any
part of the world whereever they thought sit? and I be-
gan to examine what should hinder them from making
such an attempt.
But my wonder was over, when I entered upon
that subject with the person I have mentioned, who
answered me thus: Consider, first, fir, said he, the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in; especially, said he, the generality of the people
who are banished hither. We are surrounded,, said he,
with stronger things than bars and bolts; on the
north fide is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never
sailed, and boat never swam; neither, if we had both,
could we know whither to go with them. Every other
way, said he, we have above a thousand miles to pass
through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways ut-
terly impassable, except by the roads made by the go-
i vernment,
vernment, and through the towns garrisoned by his
troops; so that we could neither pass undiscovered by
the road, or subsist any other way; so that is in vain to
attempt it.
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
were in prison, every jot as secure, as if they had been
locked up in the castle of Moscow: however, it came
into my thoughts, that I might certainly be made an
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per-
son, and that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the country;
and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Arch-Angel,
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the
desert, but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-Angel,
where I could immediately secure him on board an
English or Dutch ship, and carry him off safe along with
jne; and, as to his subsistence, and other particulars,
that ihould be my care, till he should better iupply him-
self*
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly
€n me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
very face, that what I laid put his spirits into an ex-
ceeding ferment; his colour frequently changed, his
eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might
be even perceived in his countenance; nor could he
immediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it
were, expected what he would fay to it; and after he
had paused a little, he embraced me, and said, how
unhappy are we! unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares to
us, and we are made tempters of one another t My dear
friend, said he, your offer is so sincere, has such kindr-
ness in it, is so dr&ntefested in itself, and is so calculat -
«d for my advantage, that I must have very little
knowledge of the world, if I did not both wonder at
it, and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me
to you fork: But did you believe I was sincere in
what I have so often said to you of my contempt of
the world t Did you believe I spoke my very soul
to you, and that I had really maintained that degree
of
t>s felicity here, that had placed me above all that the
world could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back, if I
was recalled even to be all that once I was in the court,
and with the favour of the Czar, my master? Did you
believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, or did you
think me to be a boasting hypocrite? Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I would fay; but, indeed, I
soon after perceived, that he stopped because his spirits
were in motion; his heart was full of struggles, and
he could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the
thing, as well as at the man, and I used some argu-
ments with him to urge him to set himself free: that
he ought to look upon this as a door opened by Hea-
ven for his deliverance, and a summons by Providence,
who has the care and good disposition of all events, to
do himself good, and to render himself useful in the
world.
He had by this time recovered himself: How do
you know, sir, said he, warmly, but that instead of a
summons from heaven, it may be a feint of another
instrument, representing, in all the alluring colours, to
me, the shew of felicity as a deliverance, which may
in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin?
Here I am free from the temptation of returning to
my former miserable greatness; there I am not sure,
but that all the feeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and
luxury, which I know remain in my nature, may revive
and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me;
and then the happy prisoner, whom you fee now mas-
ter of his foal's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of
liis own fenses, in the full of all personal liberty. Dear
sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement, banished
from the crimes of life, rather than purchase a shew
of freedom at the expence of the liberty of my reason,
and at die expence of the future happiness which now
I have in my view, but shall then, 1 fear, quickly lose
iight of; for I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have
passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow
me as any man: O be not my friend and my tempter
both together!
Vol. II. M If
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now;
and stood silent, looking at him; and, indeed, admired
what 1 saw; the struggle in his foul wa> so great, that
though the weather was extremely cold, it put him into
a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give~
vent to his mind; so I {aid a word or two, that I would
leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again; and
then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near
the door of the room, and I was going to open the door;
but he had opened it, and come in: My dear friend*
said he, you had almost overset me, but I am recovered:
•donot take kill that 1 do not close with your offer; 1
assure you, it is not for want of a fense of the kindness
of it in you; and I come to make the most sincere ac-
knowledgment of it to you; but, I hope, I have got
the victory over myself.
My lord, said I, I hope you are fully satisfied, that
you did not resist the call of heaven. Sir, said he, if it
had been from heaven, the same power would have in-
fluenced me to accept it; but, I hope, and am fully
satisfied, that it is from heaven that I decline it; and
I have an infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you
shall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-
fession to him of my having no end in it, but a sincere
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion-
ately, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
should always acknowledge it ~9 and with that he offered
me a very fine present of sables, too much, indeed,
for me to accept from a man in his circumstances; and
I would have avoided them, but he would not be re-
fused.
The n xt morning I sent my -servant to his lord-
fh'p, wit a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
«lid not ail weigh above six ounces, or thereabouts; but
were far short of the value of his sables, which, in-
deed, when I came to-Englaud, I found worth near two
hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece
ot
of the damalk, and one of the pieces of gold, which
had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which
I found he took for the rarity of it, but would nOt.take
any more; and sent word by my servant, that he de-
fired to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew what
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move
him any more in that affair; but that, since I made
such a generous offer to him, he asked me, if I had
kindneis enough to offer the fame to another person
that he would name to me* in whom he ha$ a great
share of concern. I told him, that I could not'fay I
inclined to do io much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have been
glaa to have been the instrument of his deliverance;
however, if he would please to name the person to me,
I would give him my answer, and hoped he would
not be displeased with me, if he was with my answer.
He told me, it was only his son, who, though I had
not seen, yet was"in the fame condition with himself>
and above two hundred miles from him, on the other
fide the Oby; but that, if I consented, he would send
for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would^do it:
I made some ceremony in letting him understand, that
it was wholly on his account; and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, I would shew my respect to him, by
my concern for his son: but these things are too te-
dious to repeat here. He sent away the next day for
his son, and in about twenty days he came back with
the messenger, bringing f}x or seven horses loaded with
very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to
a very great value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there*
the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper
for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermins, and such other furs that are
very rich; I fay, I had bought them in that city so
M 2 exchag
»*? ab yen Tint is ar
exchange for some os the goods brought from Chtna; xa
particular, for the cloves and nutmeg*, of which I fold
the greatest part here ; and the rest afterwards at Arch-
angel, for a much better price than I could have done at
London; and my partner, who was sensible of the pro*
fit, and whose business more particularly than mine,
was merchandize, was mightily pleased with our stay,
fin account of the traffic we made here.
It was in the beginning of June, when I left this re-
mote place, a city, J believe, little heard of in the
world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being
only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of
them passed for mine, though my new guest was pro-
prietor of eleven cf them. It was molt natural also,
that I should take more servants with me than I had be-
fore, and the young lord passed for my steward; what
great man I passed for myself I know not, neither did
it concern me to enquire. We had here the worst and
the largest desert to pass over that we met with in all
the journey, indeed, I call it the worst, because the
way was very deep in some place?, and very uneven
in others; the best we had to fay for it, was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to
fear, and that they never came on this side the river
Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we sound it
Otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful MuscovHe
servant* &r rather a Siberian servant, who was per-
fectly acquainted with the country; and who led us
by 'private roads, that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities upon the great road, such
as Tumen, Soloy-Kamoikoy, and several others; be-
cause the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there are
-very curious and strict in their observations upon travel-
lers, and searching lest any of the banistied persons of
note should make their escape that way into Muscovy;
but by this means, as we were kept out of the cities,
fo our whole Journey was a desert, and we were obliged
to encamp and He in our tents, when we might have
hacl good accommodation in the cities oa the way.:
this
it (ft i u s o n cjcxr.^o e* * *%
his the young lord was so sensibly ,of, that he wpuld
. not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several
cities on the way; but lay abroad himsetC vwithhi3
servant, in the woods, and met us always < at the ap-
pointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which, in those parts, is the boundary between
Europe and Asia; and the first city on the European side
was called Solby-Kamofkoy, which is as much as to fay,
the great city on the river Kama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their
manners, their habit, their religion, and their busi-
ness; but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast de-
sert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, but not above two hundred
miles over where we pasted it; so, till we came past
that horrible place, we found very little difference be-
tween that country and the Mogul Tartary; the people
mostly Pagans, and little better than the savages of
America; their houses and towns full of idols, and;
their way of living wholly barbarous,, except in the cities
as above, and the villages near them; where they
are Christians, as they call themselves of the Greek
church; but even these have their religion mingled-
with so many reliques of superstition^ that it is scarce
to be known in some places for mere sorcery and-
witchcraft*.
In passing this sorest, I thought, indeed, we must,,
after alt our dangers were, in our imagination, escapee!/
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murdered by a troop of thieves; of what coun-
try they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi,
a. kind of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of
the Oby, had ranged thus far; or whether they were
the fable hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to
know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows *
and arrows,, and were at first about five and forty in
number; they came so near to us, as within about,
two musquet shot; and, asking no questions, they fur-*
rounded us with their horse, and looked very earnestly
upon us twice; at length they placed themselves just
ist our way; upon which we drew up ia a little line
M-i, before
before our camels being not above sixteen men in all;
and being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the
Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to fee who they
were ; liis master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were
a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came up
near them with a flag of truce, and called to them;
but though he spoke several of their languages, or dia-
lects of languages tather, he could not understand a
word they said; however, after some signs to him not
to come nearer to them at his peril; so he said he un-
derstood them to mean, offering to shoot at him if he
advanced; the fellow came back no wiser than he went*
only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be
some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hords -%
and that there must be more of them on the great desert*
though he never heard that ever any of them were seen
so far north before.
This was small comfort to us; however, we Tiad no
remedy: there was on our left hand, at about a
quarter of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump
of trees, which stood close together, and very near
the road; I immediately resolved we would advance
to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we
cofcld there; for, first, I "considered that the trees would
in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a
body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who
proposed it: and who had this excellency attending
him, namely, thatfee^was always readiest and most apt
to direct and encourage us in cafes of the most dan-
ger. We advanced immediately with what speed we
could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us.
When we came thither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy springy piece of ground,
and, on the other fide* a very great spring of water,
which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a
little farther joined by another of the like bigness: and
was, in short, the head or source of £ considerable ri-
ver, called afterwards the Wirt&aj the trees which
: grew *
grew about this spring, were not in all above two htm
dred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick ; so
that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly-
safe from the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked
ii s on foot.
Bat to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with
indefatigable application, cut down great arms of the
trees, and laid them hanging, not cut quite off, from
one tree to another; so that he-^nade a continued fence
almost round us.
We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy4
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer to
stir; when about two hours before night, they came
down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some more
of the same, so that they were near fourscore horse*
whereof, however* we fancied some were women*
They came on till they were within half a shot of our
little wood, -when we fired one musquet without ball*
and called to them in the Russian tongue, to know what
they wanted, and bid them keep off; but, as if they
knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double fury directly up to the wood-side, not imagining
we were so barricadoed, that they could not break in;
our old pilot was our captain, as well as he had been
our engineer; and desired of us, not to fire upon them
till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure
to kill; and that when we did sire we should be sure
to take good aim. We bade him give the word of com-
mand; which he delayed so long, that they were, some
of them, within two pikes length of us when we
fired.
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot so
sure) that we killed fourteen of them at the first volley*
and wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two
or three bullets a piece at least.
'They were terribly surprised with our fire, and re-
treated immediately about one hundred rods from us *
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and, feeing1
them keep that distance, we sallied outf and caught
tour or five of their horses, whose riders, we sup.%
f poseds
posed, were killed; and, coming up to the dead, we
could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not
from what country, or how they came to make an excur-
sion such an unusual length.
About an hour aster, they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where
else they might break in; but finding us always ready
to face them, they went off again, and we resolved not
to stir from the pktce for that night.
We slept a little, you may be s ure ; but spent the most
par* of the night in strengthening our situation, and
barricadoing the entrances into the wood ; and, keeping
a strict watcli, we waited for day-light, and, when it
came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with
the reception they had met with, were now increased to
no less than three hundred, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
us; and this little camp they had pitched, was upon the
open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us.
We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery ; and now,
I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The Loss of my effects'did not lie so near me (though
they were very considerable) as the thoughts of falling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of
my journey, after so many difficulties and hazard
as 1 had gone through; and even in fight of our
port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As
for my partner, he was raging; he declared, that to
lose his goods would be his ruin; and he would rather
die than be starved; and he was for fighting to the lasts
drop.
The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed it-
self, was for fighting to the.last also; and my old pilot
Was of the Opinion we were able to resist them all, in
the situation we then were in ; and thus we spent the day
in debates of what we mould do ; but, towards evening,.
we found that the number-of out ettemies still encreas-
ed: perhaps, as they were abroad in several parties for
prey, he first had sent out scouts to call for help, and
to acquaint them of their booty; and we did not know
Sat by the xmxrmg they aright still be a greater*
luimber;.
Dumber; so I began to enquire of those people we had
brought from Tobolfki, if there was no other, or more
private ways, by which we might avoid them in the
night, and, perhaps either retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young loraV
told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night to a way
that went north towards the river Petraz, by which he
made no doubt but we might get a was, and the Tar-
tars never the wiser; but he said, his lord had told
him he would not return, but would rather chuse to fight,
I told him, he mistook his lord.; for that he was too
wife a man to love fighting for the fake of it; that I?
knew his lord was brave enough by what he had shewed
already; but that his lord knew better, than to desire
to have seventeen or eighteen men fight five hundred*.
unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to it; and
that if he thought it possible for us to escape in the
night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He
answered, if his lord gave him such order, he would lose
his life if he did not perform it. We soon brought his
lord to give that order, though privately, and we im-
mediately prepared for the putting it in practice.
, And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tar-
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon as
it was dark, that is to fay, so as we could fee the iiars,
(for our guide would not stir before) having all our
horses and camels ready loaden, we followed our new
guide, who, I soon founds steered himself by the pole,
or north star, all the country being level for a long
way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began
4ohc lighter still, not that it was quite dark all night*
but the moon began to rife, so that, in short, it was ra-
ther lighter than we wished it to be: but by fix o'cleefc
n^xt morning, we were gotten near forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled oar horses* Here we
found & Ruffian village, named Kirmazinfkoy, where we
rested, and heard nothing of the Calmuck Tartars that
, day.
day. About two hours before night we set out again,
and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hastily as before; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little r^ver, called Kirtxa, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Ruffians, and very populous,
called Ozemys; there we heard, that several troops or
hords of Calmucks had been abroad upon the desert,
but that we were row completely out of danger of them-,
which was to our great satisfaction, you may be sure
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses, and,
having need enough of rest, we staid five days; and my
partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who
Brought us thither, the value often pistoles for his con-
ducting us.
In five days more we came to Veuflima, upon the
riyer Witzogda, which running into the river IJwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our travels?
by land, that river being navigable in seven days pas-
sage to Archangel: from hence we came to Law-
renikoy, where the river joins, the third of July: and
provided ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a barge,
for our convenience: we embarked the seventh, and
arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, having-
been a year, five months, and three days, on the jour-
ney, including our stay of, eight months and odd days
at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks sot
the arrival of the .ships, and must have tarried longer*
had not a Hamburgher come in above a month sooner
than any of the English ships: when, after'some consi-
deration, that the city of Hamburgh might happen to
be as good a market for our goods as London, we alt
tock freight with him: and having put our goods on
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward oft
boardto take care of them : by which nieans my young
lord had a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself,
never coming on more again, in all the time we 'staid
there: and this he did, that he might not be seen in the
city, where some of the Moseow mercha nts would cer-*
fcpnly have seen and discovered hint*
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August
the same year ; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage*
arrived
arrived in the Elbe, the 13th of September: here my
partner and I found a very good sale for our goods, as
well those of China, as the sables, &c. of Siberia : and
dividing the produce of our effects, my share amounted
103475!. 17s. 3d. notwithstanding so many losses we
had sustained, and charges we had been at; only re-
membering that I had included, in this, about 600L
worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went
*rp the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna,
where he resolved to seek protection, and where he
could correspond wit.h those of his father's friends who
were left alive. He did not part without all the testi-
monies he could give, of gratitude for the service I had
done him, and his fense of my kindness to the prince his
father.
To conclude, having staid near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence, over land to the Hague,
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London
the 10th of January, 1705, having been gone from
England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I
am preparing for a longer journey than all these, hav-
ing lived 72 years a life of infinite variety, and learned
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the
blessing of ending our days in peace.
FINIS'.
mm
«-ii§I
