Robinson Crusoe
IN WORDS OF
ONE SYLLABLE
BY
MARY GODOLPHIN
AUTHOR OF "THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS," AND "THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON,'
IN WORDS OF ONE SYLLABLE

New York
GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, Limited
119 & 121 West 23D Street
34-03
./) 3 3.
a.a
arc
IN UNIFORM STYLE.
In Words of one Syllable.
ILLUSTRATED.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.
THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
iESOP'S FABLES.
PRICE, FIFTY CENTS EACH.
Sold by all Booksellers and sent, post-paid,
on receipt of price by the Publishers.
GEORGE ROUTLEDGE A SONS, Limited,
NEW YORK.
PREFACE.

|HE production of a book which is adapted to the use
of the youngest readers needs but few words of
excuse or apology. The nature of the work seems to be suffi-
ciently explained by the title itself, and the author's task has
been chiefly to reduce the ordinary language into words of one
syllable. But although as far as the subject matter is con-
cerned, the book can lay no claims to originality, it is believed
that the idea and scope of its construction are entirely novel,
for the One Syllable literature of the present day furnishes
little more than a few short, unconnected sentences, and those
chiefly in spelling books.
The deep interest which De Foe's story has never failed to
arouse in the minds of the young, induces the author to hope
that it may be acceptable in its present form.
It should be stated that exceptions to the rule of using
words of one syllable exclusively have been made in the case of
the proper names of the boy Xury and of the man Friday.


HIS FIRST WRECK.
ROBINSON CRUSOE
IN WORDS OF ONE SYLLABLE.

WAS born at York on the First of March in the sixth
year of the reign of King Charles the First. From
the time when I was quite a young child I had felt a
great wish to spend my life at sea, and as I grew, so did this
taste grow more and more strong; till at last I broke loose
2 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
from my school and home, and found my way on foot to Hull,
where I soon got a place on board a ship.
When we had set sail but a few days, a squall of wind came
on, and on the fifth night we sprang a leak. All hands were
sent to the pumps, but we felt the ship groan in all her planks,
and her beams quake from stem to stern; so that it was soon
quite clear there was no hope for her, and that all we could do
was to save our lives.
The first thing was to fire off guns, to show that we were in
need of help, and at length a ship, which lay not far from us,
sent a boat to our aid. But the sea was too rough for it to
lie near our ship's side, so we threw out a rope, which the men
in the boat caught, and made fast, and by this means we all
got in.
Still, in so wild a sea it was vain to try to get on board the
ship which had sent out the men, or to use our oars in the boat,
and all we could do was to let it drive to shore.
In the space of half an hour our own ship struck on a rock
and went down, and we saw her no more. We made but slow
way to the land, which we caught sight of now and then when
the boat rose to the top of some high wave, and there we saw
men who ran in crowds, to and fro, all bent on one thing, and
that was to save us.
At last to our great joy we got on shore, where we had the
luck to meet with friends who gave us the means to get back
to Hull; and if I had now had the good sense to go home, it
would have been well for me.
The man whose ship had gone down said with a grave look,
"Young lad, you ought to go to sea no more, it is not the kind
THE TURKS GIVE CHASE. 3
of life for you." "Why, sir, will you go to sea no more then?"
"That is not the same kind of thing. I was bred to the sea,
but you were not, and came on board my ship just to find out
what a life at sea was like, and you may guess what you will
come to if you do not go back to your home. God will not
bless you, and it may be that you have brought all this woe
on us."
I spoke not a word more to him; which way he went I knew
not, nor did I care to know, for I was hurt at this rude speech.
Shall I go home, thought I, or shall I go to sea? Shame kept
me from home, and I could not make up my mind what course
of life to take.
As it has been my fate through life to choose for the worst,
so I did now. I had- gold in my purse, and good clothes on
my back, and to sea I went once more.
But I had worse luck this time than the last, for when we
were far out at sea, some Turks in a small ship came on our
track in full chase. We set as much sail as our yards would
bear, so as to get clear from them. But in spite of this, we saw
our foes gain on us, a*nd we felt sure that they would come up
to our ship in a few hours' time.
At last they caught us; but we brought our guns to bear on
them, which made them sheer off for a time, yet they kept up
a fire at us as long as they were in range. The next time the
Turks came up, some of their men got on board our ship, and
set to work to cut the sails, and do us all kinds of harm. So,
as ten of our men lay dead, and most of the rest had wounds,
we gave in.
The chief of the Turks took me as his prize to a port which
1—2
was held by the Moors. He did not use me so ill as at first I
thought he would have done, but he set me to work with the
rest of his slaves. This was a change in my life which I did
not think had been in store for me. How my heart sank with
grief at the thought of those whom I had left at home, nay, to

HE IS MADE A SLAVE.
whom I had not had the grace so much as to say " Good bye"
when I went to sea, nor to give a hint of what I meant to do!
Yet all that I went through at this time was but a taste of
the toils and cares which it has since been my lot to bear.
I thought at first that the Turk might take me with him
when next he went to sea, and so I should find some way to
get free; but the hope did not last long, for at such times he
left me on shore to see to his crops. This kind of life I led
for two years, and as the Turk knew and saw more of me, he
made me more and more free. He went out in his boat once
or twice a week to catch a kind of flat fish, and now and then
A SLAVE TO THE TURK. 5
he took me and a boy with him, for we were quick at this kind
of sport, and he grew quite fond of me.
One day the Turk sent me in the boat to catch some fish,
with no one else but a man and a boy. While we were out,
so thick a fog came on, that though we were not half a mile
from the shore, we quite lost sight of it for twelve hours; and
when the sun rose the next day, our boat was at least ten miles
out at sea. The wind blew fresh, and we were all much in
want of food; but at last, with the help of our oars and sail,
we got back safe to land.
When the Turk heard how we had lost our way, he said that
the next time he went out, he would take a boat that would
hold all we could want if we were kept out at sea. So he had
quite a state room built in the long boat of his ship, as well as
a room for us slaves. One day he sent me to trim the boat,
as he had two friends who would go in it to fish with him.
But when the time came they did not go, so he sent me with
the man and the boy—whose name was Xury—to catch some
fish for the guests that were to sup with him.
Now the thought struck me all at once that this would be a
good chance to set off with the boat, and get free. So in the
first place I took all the food that I could lay my hands on,
and I told the man that it would be too bold of us to eat of the
bread that had been put in the boat for the Turk. He said he
thought so too, and he brought down a small sack of rice and
some rusks.
While the man was on shore I put up some wine, a large
lump of wax, a saw, an axe, a spade, some rope, and all sorts
of things that might be of use to us. I knew where the Turk's
case of wine was, and I put that in the boat while the man was
on shore. By one more trick I got all that I had need of. I
said to the boy, " The Turk's guns are in the boat, but there is
no shot. Do you think you could get some? You know
where it is kept, and we may want to shoot a fowl or two." So
he brought a case and a pouch which held all that we could
want for the guns. These I put in the boat, and then set sail
out of the port to fish.
The wind blew from the north, or north west, which was a
bad wind for me; for had it been south, I could have made for
the coast of Spain. But, blow which way it might, my mind
was made up to get off, and to leave the rest to fate. I then
let down my lines to fish, but I took care to have bad sport;
and when the fish bit I would not pull them up, for the Moor
was not to see them. I said to him, "This will not do: we
shall catch no fish here; we ought to sail on a bit." Well, the
Moor thought there was no harm in this. He set the sails,
and, as the helm was in my hands, I ran the boat out a mile or
more, and then brought her to, as if I meant to fish.
Now, thought I, the time has come for me to get free; so I
gave the helm to the boy, and then took the Moor round the
waist, and threw him out of the boat.
Down he went! but soon rose up, for he swam like a duck.
He said he would go all round the world with me, if I would
but take him in.
I had some fear lest he should climb up the boat's side, and
force his way back; so I brought my gun to point at him, and
said, "You can swim to land with ease if you choose, make
haste then to get there; but if you come near the boat you
XURY SWEARS TO BE TRUE. y
shall have a shot through the head, for I mean to be a free
man from this hour."
He then swam for the shore, and no doubt got safe there,
as the sea was so calm.

HE TAKES XURY WITH HIM.
At first I thought I would take the Moor with me, and let
Xury swim to land; but the Moor was not a man that I could
trust.
When he was gone I said to Xury, " If you will swear to be
true to me, you shall be a great man in time; if not, I must
throw you out of the boat too."
The poor boy gave me such a sweet smile as he swore to be
true to me, that I could not find it in my heart to doubt him.
While the man was still in view (for he was on his way to
the land), we stood out to sea with the boat, so that he and
those that saw us from the shore, might think we' had gone to
the straits' mouth, for no one went to the south coast, as a tribe
of men dwelt there who were known to kill and eat their foes.
We then bent our course to the east, so as to keep in with
the shore; and as we had a fair wind and a smooth sea, by
the next day at noon, we were a long way off, and quite out of
the reach of the Turk.
I had still some fear lest I should be caught by the Moors,
so I would not go on shore in the day time. But when it grew
dusk we made our way to the coast, and came to the mouth of
a stream, from which we thought we would swim to land, and
then look round us. But as soon as it was quite dark we
heard strange sounds—barks, roars, grunts, and howls. The
poor lad said he could not go on shore till dawn. "Well,"
said I, " then we must give it up, but it may be that in the
day time we shall be seen by men, who for all we know would
do us more harm than wild beasts." "Then we give them the
shoot gun," said Xury with a laugh, "and make them run
way."
I was glad to see so much mirth in the boy, and gave him
some bread and rice.
We lay still at night, but did not sleep long, for in a few
hours' time some huge beasts came down to the sea to bathe.
The poor boy shook from head to foot at the sight. One of
these beasts came near our boat, and though it was too dark
to see him well, we heard him puff and blow, and knew that
he must be a large one by the noise he made. At last the brute
XURY FINDS A FRESH SPRING. 9
came as near to the boat as two oars' length, so I shot at him,
and he swam to the shore.
The roar and cries set up by beasts and birds at the noise
of my gun would seem to show that we had made a bad choice
of a place to land on; but be that as it would, to shore we had
to go to find some fresh spring, so that we might fill our casks.
Xury said if I would let him go with one of the jars, he would
find out if the springs were fit to drink; and, if they were
sweet, he would bring the jar back full. "Why should you
go?" said I; "why should not I go, and you stay in the boat?"
At this Xury said, " If wild mans come they eat me, you go
way." I could not but love the lad for this kind speech.
"Well," said I, "we will both go, and if the wild men come
we must kill them, they shall not eat you or me."
I gave Xury some rum from the Turk's case to cheer him
up, and we went on shore. The boy went off with his gun,
full a mile from the spot where we stood, and came back with
a hare that he had shot, which we were glad to cook and eat;
but the good news which he brought was that he had found a
spring, and had seen no wild men.
I made a guess that the Cape de Verd Isles were not far off,
for I saw the top of the Great Peak, which I knew was near
them. My one hope was that if I kept near the coast, I should
find some ship that would take us on board; and then, and not
till then, should I feel a free man. In a word, I put the .vhole
of my fate on this chance, that I must meet with some ship, or
die.
On the coast we saw some men who stood to look at us.
They were black, and wore no clothes. I would have gone on
shore to them, but Xury—who knew best—said, "Not you
go! Not you go!" So I brought the boat as near the land
as I could, that I might talk to them, and they kept up with
me a long way. I saw that one of them had a lance in his
hand.
I made signs that they should bring me some food, and they
on their part made signs for me to stop my boat. So I let
down the top of my sail, and lay by, while two of them ran off;
and in less than half an hour they came back with some dry
meat and a sort of corn which is grown in this part of the
world. This we should have been glad to get, but knew not
how to do so; for we durst not go on shore to them, nor did
they dare to come to us.
At last they took a safe way for us all, for they brought the
food to the shore, where they set it down, and then went a
long way off while we took it in. We made signs to show our
thanks, for we had not a thing that we could spare to give
them.
But as good luck would have it, we were at hand to take a
great prize for them; for two wild beasts, of the same kind as
the first I spoke of, came in full chase from the hills down to
the sea.
They swam as if they had come for sport. The men flew
from them in fear, all but the one who held the lance. One of
these beasts came near our boat; so I lay in wait for him with
my gun; and as soon as the brute was in range, I shot him
through the head. Twice he sank down in the sea, and twice
he came up; and then just swam to the land, where he fell
down dead. The men were in as much fear at the sound of
A SHIP IN SIGHT. n
my gun as they had been at the sight of the beasts. But when
I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart,
and came.
They at once made for their prize; and by the help of a rope,
which they slung round him, they brought him safe on the
beach.
We now left our wild men, and went on and on, for twelve
days more. The land in front of us ran out four or five miles,
like a bill; and we had to keep some way from the coast to
make this point, so that we lost sight of the shore.
I gave the helm to Xury, and sat down to think what would
be my best course to take; when all at once I heard the lad cry
out, "A ship with a sail! A ship with a sail!" He did not
show much joy at the sight, for he thought that this ship had
been sent out to take him back; but I knew well, from the
look of her, that she was not one of the Turk's.
I made all the sail I could to come in the ship's way, and
told Xury to fire a gun, in the hope that if those on deck could
not hear the sound, they might see the smoke. This they did
see, and then let down their sails so that we might come up to
them, and in three hours' time we were at the ship's side. The
men spoke to us in French, but I could not make out what they
meant. At last a Scot on board said in my own tongue, "Who
are you? Whence do you come?" I told him in a few words
how I had got free from the Moors.
Then the man who had charge of the ship bade me come on
board, and took me in, with Xury and all my goods. I told
him that he might take all I had; but he said, "You shall have
your goods back when we come to land, for I have but done
for you what you would have done for me, had I been in the
same plight."
He gave me a good round sum for my boat, and said that I
should have the same sum for Xury, if I would part with him.
But I told him that as it was by the boy's help that I had got
free, I was loth to sell him. He said it was just and right in me
to feel thus, but at the same time, if I could make up my mind
to part with him, he should be set free in two years' time^ So,
as the poor slave had a wish to go with him, I did not say no.
I got to All Saints' Bay in three weeks, and was now a free
man.
I had made a good sum by all my store, and with this I went
•n land. But I did not at all know what to do next. At length
1 met with a man whose case was much the same as my own,
and we both took some land to farm. My stock, like his, was
1 w, but we made our farms serve to keep us in food, though
not more than that. We both stood in need of help, and I
saw now that I had done wrong to part with my boy.
I did not at all like this kind of life. What! thought I,
have I come all this way to do that which I could have done
as well at home with my friends round me? And to add to
my grief, the kind friend who had brought me here in his ship,
now meant to leave these shores.
On my first start to sea when a boy, I had put a small sum
in the hands of an aunt, and this my friend said I should do
well to spend on my farm. So when he got home he sent some
of it in cash, and laid out the rest in cloth, stuffs, baize, and
such like goods. My aunt had put a few pounds in my friend's
hands as a gift to him, to show her thanks for all that he had
GOES TO SEA ONCE MORE. 13
done for me, and with this sum he was so kind as to buy me a
slave. In the mean time I had bought a slave, so now I had
two, and all went on well for the next year.
But soon my plans grew too large for my means. One day
some men came to ask me to take charge of a slave ship to be
sent out by them. They said they would give me a share in
the slaves, and pay the cost of the stock. This would have
been a good thing for me if I had not had farms and land;
but it was wild and rash to think of it now, for I had made a
large sum, and ought to have gone on in the same way for three
or four years more. Well, I told these men that I would go
with all my heart, if they would look to my farm in the mean
time, which they said they would do.
So I made my will, and went on board this ship on the same
day on which, eight years since, I had left Hull. She had six
guns, twelve men, and a boy. We took with us saws, chains,
toys, beads, bits of glass, and such like ware, to suit the taste
of those with whom we had to trade
We were not more than twelve days from the Line, when a
high wind took us off we knew not where. All at once there
was a cry of " Land !" and the ship struck on a bank of sand,
in which she sank so deep that we could not get her off. At
last we found that we must make up our minds to leave her,
and get to shore as well as we could. There had been a boat
at her stern, but we found it had been torn off by the force of
the waves. One small boat was still left on the ship's side, so
we got in it.
There we were all of us on the wild sea. The heart of each
now grew faint, our cheeks were pale, and our eyes were dim,
for there was but one hope, and that was to find some bay, and
so get in the lee of the land. We now gave up our whole
souls to God.
The sea grew more and more rough, and its white foam
would curl and boil. At last the waves, in their wild sport,
burst on the boat's side, and we were all thrown out.
I could swim well, but the force of the waves made me lose
my breath too much to do so. At length one large wave took
me to the shore, and left me high and dry, though half dead
with fear. I got on my feet and made the best of my way for
the land; but just then the curve of a huge wave rose up as
high as a hill, and this I had no strength to keep from, so it
took me back to the sea. I did my best to float on the top,
and held my breath to do so. The next wave was quite as
high, and shut me up in its bulk I held my hands down
tight to my side, and then my head shot out at the top of the
waves. This gave me heart and breath too, and soon my
feet felt the ground.
I stood quite still for a short time, to let the sea run back
from me, and then I set off with all my might to the shore,
but yet the waves caught me, and twice more did they take
me back, and twice more land me on the shore. I thought the
last wave would have been the death of me, for it drove me on
a piece of rock, and with such force, as to leave me in a kind
of swoon, which, thank God, did not last long. At length, to
my great joy, I got up to the cliffs close to the shore, where I
found some grass, out of the reach of the sea. There I sat
down, safe on land at last.
I could but cry out in the words of the Psalm, "They thai
THE WRECK.
15
go down to the sea in ships, these men see the works of the
Lord in the deep. For at His word the storms rise, the winds
blow, and lift up the waves; then do they mount to the sky,
and from thence go down to the deep. My soul faints, I reel
to and fro, and am at my wit's end: then the Lord brings me
out of all my fears."

CAST ON THE SHORE.
I felt so wrapt in joy, that all I could do was to walk up
and down the coast, now lift up my hands, now fold them on
my breast and thank God for all that He had done for me,
when the rest of the men were lost. All lost but I, and I was
safe I I now cast my eyes round me, to find out what kind of
a place it was that I had been thus thrown in, like a bird in a
storm. Then all the glee I felt at first left me; for I was wet
and cold, and had no dry clothes to put on, no food to eat, and
not a friend to help me.
There were wild beasts here, but I had no gun to shoot
them with, or to keep me from their jaws. I had but a knife
and a pipe.
It now grew dark; and where was I to go for the night?
I thought the top of some high tree would be a good place to
keep me out of harm's way; and that there I might sit and
think of death, for, as yet, I had no hopes of life. Well, I
went to my tree, and made a kind of nest to sleep in. Then I
cut a stick to keep off the beasts of prey, in case they should
come, and fell to sleep just as if the branch I lay on had been
a bed of down.
When I woke up it was broad day; the sky too was clear
and the sea calm. But I saw from the top of the tree that in
the night the ship had left the bank of sand, and lay but a
mile from me; while the boat was on the beach, two miles on
my right. I went some way down by the shore, to get to the
boat; but an arm of the sea, half a mile broad, kept me from
it. At noon, the tide went a long way out, so that I could get
near the ship; and here I found that if we had but made up
our minds to stay on board, we should all have been safe.
I shed tears at the thought, for I could not help it; yet, as
there was no use in that, it struck me that the best thing for
me to do was to swim to the ship. I soon threw off my clothes,
took to the sea, and swam up to the wreck. But how was I
to get on deck? I had swum twice round the ship, when a
piece of rope caught my eye, which hung down from her side
so low, that at first the waves hid it. By the help of this rope
I got on board.
I found that there was a bulge in the ship, and that she had
sprung a leak. You may be sure that my first thought was to
SAFE AT LAST.
17
look round for some food, and I soon made my way to the bin
where the bread was kept, and ate some of it as I went to and
fro, for there was no time to lose. There was, too, some rum,
of which I took a good draught, and this gave me heart. What

HE LOOKS ROUND THE SHIP FOR FOOD.
I stood most in need of, was a boat to take the goods to shore.
But it was vain to wish for that which could not be had; and
as there were some spare yards in the ship, two or three large
planks of wood, and a spare mast or two, I fell to work with
these to make a raft.
I put four spars side by side, and laid short bits of plank on
them, cross ways, to make my raft strong. Though these
planks would bear my own weight, they were too slight to
bear much of my freight. So I took a saw which was on
board, and cut a mast in three lengths, and these gave great
strength to the raft. I found some bread and rice, a Dutch
cheese, and some dry goat's flesh. There had been some
wheat, but the rats had got at it, and it was all gone.
My next task was to screen my goods from the spray of the
sea; and it did not take me long to do this, for there were
three large chests on board which held all, and these I put on
the raft. When the high tide came up it took off my coat and
shirt, which I had left on the shore; but there were some
fresh clothes in the ship.
"See, here is a prize!" said I, out loud (though there were
none to hear me), " now I shall not starve." For I found four
large guns. But how was my raft to be got to land? I had
no sail, no oars; and a gust of wind would make all my store
slide off. Yet there were three things which I was glad of—
a calm sea, a tide which set in to the shore, and a slight breeze
to blow me there.
I had the good luck to find some oars in a part of the ship
in which I had made no search till now. With these I put to
sea, and for half a mile my raft went well; but soon I found
it drove to one side. At length I saw a creek, up which, with
some toil, I took my raft; and now the beach was so near,
that I felt my oar touch the ground.
Here I had well nigh lost my freight, for the shore lay on a
slope, so that there was no place to land on, save where one
BRINGS HIS RAFT SAFE TO LAND. 19
end of the raft would lie so high, and one end so low, that all
my goods would fall off. To wait till the tide came up was
all that could be done. So, when the sea was a foot deep, I
thrust the raft on a flat piece of ground, to moor her there, and
stuck my two oars in the sand, one on each side of the raft.
Thus I let her lie till the ebb of the tide, and when it went
down, she was left safe on land with all her freight.
I saw that there were birds on the isle, artd I shot one of
them. Mine must have been the first gun that had been heard
there since the world was made; for, at the sound of it, whole
flocks of birds flew up, with loud cries, from all parts of the
wood. The shape of the beak of the one I shot was like that
of a hawk, but the claws were not so large.
I now went back to my raft to land my stores, and this took
up the rest of the day. What to do at night I knew not, nor
where to find a safe place to land my stores on. I did not like
to lie down on the ground, for fear of beasts of prey, as well as
snakes, but there was no cause for these fears, as I have since
found. I put the chests and boards round me as well as I
could, and made a kind of hut for the night.
As there was still a great store of things left in the ship,
which would be of use to me, I thought that I ought to bring
them to land at once; for I knew that the first storm would
break up the ship. So I went on board, and took good care
this time not to load my raft too much.
The first thing I sought for was the tool chest; ana m it
were some bags of nails, spikes, saws, knives, and such things;
but best of all, I found a stone to grind my tools on. There
were two or three flasks, some large bags of shot, and a roll of
3-2
20
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
lead; but this last I had not the strength to hoist up to the
ship's side, so as to get it on my raft. There were some spare
sails too, which I brought to shore.
I had some fear lest my stores might be run off with by
beasts of prey, if not by men; but I found all safe and sound
when I went back, and no one had come there but a wild cat,
which sat on one of the chests. When I came up I held my

20
HE MAKES A HUT FOR THE NIGHT.
gun at her, but as she did not know what a gun was, this did
not rouse her. She ate a piece of dry goat's flesh, and then
took her leave.
Now that I had two freights of goods at hand, I made a tent
with the ship's sails, to stow them in, and cut the poles for it
from the wood. I now took all the things out of the casks
and chests, and put the casks in piles round the tent, to give it
strength; and when this was done, I shut up the door with
the boards, spread one of the beds (which I had brought from
THE LAST OF THE SHIP. 21
the ship) on the ground, laid two guns close to my head, and
went to bed for the first time. I slept all night, for I was
much in need of rest.
The next day I was sad and sick at heart, for I felt how dull
it was to be thus cut off from all the rest of the world! I had
no great wish for work: but there was too much to be done
for me to dwell long on my sad lot. Each day, as it came, I
went off to the wreck to fetch more things; and I brought
back as much as the raft would hold. One day I had put too
great a load on the raft, which made it sink down on one side,
so that the goods were lost in the sea; but at this I did not
fret, as the chief part of the freight was some rope, which would
not have been of much use to me.
The twelve days that I had been in the isle were spent in
this way, and I had brought to land all that one pair of hands
could lift; though if the sea had been still calm, I might have
brought the whole ship, piece by piece.
The last time I swam to the wreck, the wind blew so hard,
that I made up my mind to go on board next time at low tide.
I found some tea and some gold coin; but as to the gold, it
made me laugh to look at it. 'O drug!" said I, "thou art
of no use to me! I care not to save thee. Stay where thou
art, till the ship go down, then go thou with it I"
Still, I thought I might as well just take it; so I put it in a
piece of the sail, and threw it on deck that I might place it on
the raft. By-and-bye, the wind blew from the shore, so I had
to swim back with all speed; for I knew that at the turn of
the tide I should find it hard work to get to land at all. But
in spite of the high wind, I came to my home all safe. At
dawn of day I put my head out, and cast my eyes on the sea,
when lo! no ship was there!
This change in the face of things, and the loss of such a
friend, quite struck me down. Yet I was glad to think that I
had brought to shore all that could be of use to me. I had
now to look out for some spot where I could make my home.
Half way up a hill there was a small plain, four or five score
feet long, and twice as broad; and as it had a full view of the
sea, I, thought that it would be a good place for my house.
I first dug a trench round a space which took in twelve
yards; and in this I drove two rows of stakes, till they stood
firm like piles, five and a half feet from the ground. I made
the stakes close and tight with bits of rope, and put small
sticks on the top of them in the shape of spikes. This made
so strong a fence that no man or beast could get in.
The door of my house was on the top, and I had to climb
up to it by steps, which I took in with me, so that no one else
might come up by the same way. Close to the back of the
house stood a high rock, in which I made a cave, and laid all
the earth that I had dug out of it round my house, to the
height of a foot and a half. I had to go out once a day in
search of food. The first time, I saw some goats, but they
were too shy and swift of foot to let me get near them.
At last I lay in wait for them close to their own haunts. If
they saw me in the vale, though they might be on high ground,
they would run off, wild with fear; but if they were in the
vale, and I on high ground, they took no heed of me. The
first goat I shot had a kid by her side, and when the old one
fell, the kid stood near her, till I took her off on my back, and
HIS FOUR PETS.
23
then the young one ran by my side. I put down the goat, and
brought the kid home to tame it; but as it was too young to
feed, I had to kill it.
At first I thought that, for the lack of pen and ink, I should
lose all note of time; so I made a large post, in the shape of

HE SETS UP A CROSS TO TELL THE DATE.
a cross, on which I cut these words: " I came on these shores
on the 8th day of June, in the year 1659." On the side of this
post I made a notch each day as it came, and this I kept up till
the last.
I have not yet said a word of my four pets, which were two
cats, a dog, and a bird. You may guess how fond I was of
them, for they were all the friends left to me. I brought the
dog and two cats from the ship. The dog would fetch things
for me at all times, and by his bark, his whine, his growl, and
his tricks, he would all but talk to me; yet he could not give
me thought for thought.
If I could but have had some one near me to find fault with,
or to find fault with me, what a treat it would have been 1
Now that I had brought ink from the ship, I wrote down a
sketch of each day as it came; not so much to leave to those
who might read it, when I was dead and gone, as to get rid of
my own thoughts, and draw me from the fears which all day
long dwelt on my mind, till my head would ache with the
weight of them.
I was a long way out of the course of ships; and oh! how
dull it was to be cast on this lone spot with no one to love, no
one to make me laugh, no one to make me weep, no one to
make me think. It was dull to roam, day by day, from the
wood to the shore, and from the shore back to the wood, and
feed on my own thoughts all the while.
So much for the sad view of my case; but like most things,
it had a bright side as well as a dark one. For here was I safe
on land, while all the rest of the ship's crew were lost. Well,
thought I, God who shapes our ways, and led me by the hand
then, can save me from this state now, or send some one to be
with me. True, I am cast on a rough and rude part of the
globe, but there are no beasts of prey on it to kill or hurt me.
God has sent the ship so near to me, that I have got from it
all things to meet my wants for the rest of my days. Let life
be what it may, there is sure to be much to thank God for.
And I soon gave up all dull thoughts, and did not so much as
look out for a sail.
My goods from the wreck had been in the cave for more
than ten months; and it was time now to put them right, as
they took up all the space, and left me no room to turn in: so
HE ADDS TO HIS CAVE.
25
I made my small cave a large one, and dug it out a long way
back in the sand rock. Then I brought the mouth of it up to
the fence, and so made a back way to my house. This done

SAD THOUGHTS AS HE ROAMS.
I put shelves on each side, to hold my goods, which made my
cave look like a shop full of stores. To make these shelves I
cut down a tree, and with the help of a saw, an axe, a plane,
and some more tools, I made boards.
A chair, and a desk to write on, came next. I rose in good
time, and set to work till noon, then I ate my meal, then I
went out with my gun, and to work once more till the sun had
set; and then to bed. It took me more than a week to change
the shape and.size of my cave, but I had made it far too large,
for in course of time the earth fell in from the roof; and had I
been in it when this took place, I should have lost my life I
had now to set up posts in my cave, with planks on the top of
them, so as to make a roof of wood.
One day, when out with my gun, I shot a wild cat, the skin
of which made me a cap; and I found some birds of the dove
tribe, which built their nests in the holes of rocks.
I had to go to bed at dusk, till I made a lamp of goat's fat,
which I put in a clay dish; and this, with a piece of hemp for
a wick, made a good light As I had found a use for the bag
which had held the fowl's food on board ship, I shook out from
it the husks of corn. This was just at the time when the
great rains fell, and in the course of a month, blades of rice,
corn, and rye sprang up. As time went by, and the grain
was ripe, I kept it, and took care to sow it each year; but I
could not boast of a crop of wheat, as will be shown by-and-
bye, for three years.
A thing now took place on the isle, which no one could have
dreamt of, and which struck me down with fear. It was this
—the ground shook with great force, which threw down earth
from the rock with a loud crash—once more there was a shock
—and now the earth fell from the roof of my cave. The sea
did not look the same as it had done, for the shocks were just
as strong there as on land. The sway of the earth made me
feel sick; and there was a noise and a roar all round me.
The same kind of shock came a third time; and when it
HE FALLS ILL. 27
had gone off, I sat quite still on the ground, for I knew not
what to do. Then the clouds grew dark, the wind rose, trees
were torn up by the roots, the sea was a mass of foam and
froth, and a great part of the isle was laid waste with the
storm. I thought that the world had come to an end. In
three hours' time all was calm; but rain fell all that night and
a great part of the next day. Now, though quite worn out, I
had to move my goods which were in the cave, to some safe
place.
I knew that tools would be my first want, and that I should
have to grind mine on the stone, as they were blunt and worn
with use. But as it took both hands to hold the tool, I could
not turn the stone; so I made a wheel by which I could move
it with my foot. This was no small task, but I took great
pains with it, and at length it was done.
The rain fell for some days and a cold chill came on me; in
short, I was ill. I had pains in my head, and could get no
sleep at night, and my thoughts were wild and strange. At
one time I shook with cold, and then a hot fit came on, with
faint sweats, which would last six hours at a time. Ill as I
was, I had to go out with my gun to get food. I shot a goat,
but it was a great toil to bring it home, and still more to cook
it.
I spent the next day in bed, and felt half dead from thirst,
yet too weak to stand up to get some drink. I lay and wept
like a child. "Lord, look on me! Lord, look on me!" would
I cry for hours.
At last the fit left me, and I slept, and did not wake till
dawn. I dreamt that I lay on the ground, and saw a man
come down from a great black cloud in a flame of light.
When he stood on the earth, it shook as it had done a few
days since; and all the world to me was full of fire. He came
up and said, "As I see that all these things have not brought
thee to pray, now thou shalt die." Then I woke, and found
it was a dream. Weak and faint, I was in dread all day lest
my fit should come on.
Too ill to get out with my gun, I sat on the shore to think,
and thus ran my thoughts: "What is this sea which is all
round me? and whence is it? There can be no doubt that
the hand that made it, made the air, the earth, the sky. And
who is that? It is God who hath made all things. Well,
then, if God hath made all things, it must be He who guides
them; and if so, no one thing in the whole range of His
works can take place and He not know it. Then God must
know how sick and sad I am, and He wills me to be here.
Oh, why hath God done this to me?"
Then some voice would seem to say, "Dost thou ask why
God hath done this to thee? Ask why thou wert not shot by
the Moors, who came on board the ship, and took the lives of
thy mates. Ask why thou wert not torn by the beasts of prey
on the coasts. Ask why thou didst not go down in the deep
sea with the rest of the crew, but didst come to this isle, and
art safe."
A sound sleep then fell on me, and when I woke it must
have been three o'clock the next day, by the rays of the sun;
nay, it may have been more than that; for I think that this
must have been the day that I did not mark on my post, as I
have since found that there was one notch too few.
HE GOES ROUND THE ISLE. 29
I now took from my store the Book of God's Word, which I
had brought from the wreck, not one page of which I had yet
read. My eyes fell on five words, that would seem to have
been put there for my good at this time; so well did they
cheer my faint hopes, and touch the true source of my fears.
They were these: "I will not leave thee." And they have
dwelt in my heart to this day. I laid down the book, to pray.
My cry was "O Lord, help me to love and learn Thy ways."
This was the first time in all my life that I had felt a sense
that God was near, and heard me. As for my dull life here,
it was not worth a thought; for now a new strength had come
to me; and there was a change in my griefs, as well as in my
joys.
I had now been in the isle twelve months, and I thought it
was time to go all round it, in search of its woods, springs,
and creeks. So I set off, and brought back with me limes and
grapes in their prime, large and ripe. I had hung the grapes
in the sun to dry, and in a few days' time went to fetch them,
that I might lay up a store. The vale, on the banks of which
they grew, was fresh and green, and a clear bright stream ran
through it, which gave so great a charm to the spot, as to make
me wish to live there.
But there was no view of the sea from this vale, wfcile from
ray house, no ships could come on my side of the isle, and not
be seen by me; yet the cool, soft banks were so sweet and new
to me, that much of my time was spent there.
In the first of the three years in which I had grown corn, I
had .sown it too late; in the next, it was spoilt by the drought;
but the third year's crop had sprung up well.
3Q
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
r
I found that the hares would lie in it night and day, for
which there was no cure but to plant a thick hedge all round
it; and this took me more than three weeks to do. I shot the.

ON THE LOOK OUT FOR A SAIL.
hares in the day time; and when it grew dark, I made fast the
dog's chain to the gate, and there he stood to bark all night.
In a short time the corn grew strong, and at last ripe; but,
just as the hares had hurt it in the blade, so now the birds ate
it in the ear. At the noise of my gun, whole flocks of them
would fly up; and at this rate I saw that there would be no
corn left; so I made up my mind to keep a look out night and
THE BIRDS IN THE CORN. 31
day. I hid by the side of a hedge, and could see the birds sit
on the trees and watch, and then come down, one by one, as at
first.
Now each grain of wheat was, as it were, a small loaf of
bread to me. So the great thing was to get rid of these birds.
My plan was this: I shot three, and hung them up like thieves,
to scare all that came to the corn; and from this time, as long
as the dead ones hung here, not a bird came near. When the
corn was ripe, I made a scythe out of the swords from the
ship, and got in my crop.
Few of us think of the cost at which a loaf of bread is made.
Of course, there was no plough here to turn up the earth, and
no spade to dig it with, so I made one with wood; but this
was soon worn out, and for want of a rake, I made use of the
bough of a tree. When I had got the corn home, I had to
thresh it, part the grain from the chaff, and store it up. Then
came the want of a mill to grind it, of sieves to clean it, and
of yeast to make bread of it.
Still, my bread was made, though I had no tools; and no
one could say that I did not earn it by the sweat of my brow.
When the rain kept me in doors, it was good fun to teach my
pet bird Poll to talk; but so mute were all things round me,
that the sound of my own voice made me start.
My chief wants now were jars, pots, cups, and plates, but I
knew not how I could make them. At last I went in search
of some clay, and found some a mile from my house; but it
was quite a joke to see the queer shapes and forms that I made
out of it. For some of my pots and jars were too weak to
bear their own weight; and they would fall out here, and in
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
there, in all sorts of ways; while some, when they were put
in the sun to bake, would crack with the heat of its rays. You
may guess what my joy was when at last a pot was made

HE FAILS FOR A TIME TO MAKE POTS.
which would stand the heat of the fire, so that I could boil the
meat for broth.
The next thing to be made was a sieve, to part the grain
from the husks. Goat's hair was of no use to me, as I could
not weave or spin; so I made a shift for two years, with a thin
kind of stuff, which I brought from the ship. But to grind the
GIVES UP HIS FIRST BOAT. 33
corn with the stones was the worst of all, such hard work did
I find it. To bake the bread I burnt some wood down to an
ash, which I threw on the hearth to heat it, and then set my
loaves on the hearth, and in this way my bread was made.
The next thing to turn my thoughts to was the ship's boat,
which lay on the high ridge of sand, where it had been thrust
by the storm which had cast me on these shores. But it lay
with the keel to the sky, so I had to dig the sand from it, and
turn it up with the help of a pole. When I had done this, I
found it was all in vain, for I had not the strength to launch
it. So all I could do now, was to make a boat of less size
out of a tree; and I found one that was just fit for it, which
grew not far from the shore, but I could no more stir this
than I could the ship's boat.
What was to be done? I first dug the ground flat and
smooth all the way from the boat to the sea, so as to let it slide
down; but this plan did not turn out well, so I thought I
would try a new way, which was to make a trench, so as to
bring the sea up to the boat, as the boat could not be brought
to the sea. But to do this, I must have dug down to a great
depth, which would take one man some years to do. And
when too late, I found it was not wise to work out a scheme
till I had first thought of the cost and toil.
"Well," thought I, "I must give up the boat, and with it
all my hopes to leave the isle. But I have this to think of: I
am lord of the whole isle; in fact, a king. I have wood with
which I might build a fleet, and grapes, if not corn, to freight
it with, though all my wealth is but a few gold coins." For
these I had no sort of use, and could have found it in my heart
3
to give them all for a peck of peas and some ink, which last I
stood much in need of. But it was best to dwell more on
what I had than on what I had not.
I now must needs try once more to build a boat, but this
time it was to have a mast, for which the ship's sails would
be of great use. I made a deck at each end to keep out the
spray of the sea, a bin for my food, and a rest for my gun,
with a flap to screen it from the wet. More than all, the boat
was one of such a size that I could launch it.
My first cruise was up and down the creek, but soon I got
bold, and made the whole round of my isle. I took with me
bread, cakes, and a pot full of rice, some rum, half a goat, two
great coats, one of which was to lie on, and one to put on at
night. I set sail in the sixth year of my reign. On the east
side of the isle there was a large ridge of rocks which lay two
miles from the shore, and a shoal of sand lay for half a mile
from the rocks to the beach. To get round to this point, I
had to sail a great way out to sea; and here I all but lost my
life.
But I got back to my home at last. On my way there,
quite worn out with the toils of the boat, I lay down in the
shade to rest my limbs, and slept. But judge, if you can, what
a start I gave, when a voice woke me out of my sleep, and
spoke my name three times! A voice in this wild place! To
call me by name, too! Then the voice said, "Where are you?
Where have you been? How came you here?" But now I
saw it all; for at the top of the hedge sat Poll, who did but
say the words she had been taught by me.
I now went in search of some goats, and laid snares for them,
AT HOME ONCE MORE.
35
with rice for a bait. I had set the traps in the night, and
found they had all stood, though the bait was gone. So I
thought of a new way to take them, which was to make a pit
and lay sticks and grass on it, so as to hide it; and in this
way I caught an old goat and some kids. But the old goat
was much too fierce for me, so I let him go.

THE NEW BOAT.
I brought all the young ones home, and let them fast a long
time, till at last they fed from my hand, and were quite tame.
I kept them in a kind of park, in which there were trees to
screen them from the sun. At first my park was three miles
round; but it struck me that, in so great a space, the kids
would soon get as wild as if they had the range of the whole
vale, and that it would be as well to give them less room;
so I had to make a hedge, which took me three months to
plant. My park held a flock of twelve goats, and in two years
more there were more than two score.
5—2
My dog sat at meals with me, and one cat on each side of
me, on stools, and we had Poll to talk to us. Now for a word
or two as to the dress in which I made a tour round the isle.
I could but think how droll it would look in the streets of the
town in which I was born. I wore a high cap of goat's skin,
with a flap that hung down, to keep the sun and rain from my
neck, a coat made from the skin of a goat too, the skirts of
which came down to my hips, and the same on my legs, with
no shoes, but flaps of the fur round my shins. I had a broad
belt of the same round my waist, which drew on with two
thongs; and from it, on my right side, hung a saw and an axe;
and on my left side a pouch for the shot. My beard had not
been cut since I came here. But no more need be said of my
looks, for there were few to see me.
A strange sight was now in store for me, which was to
change the whole course of my life in the isle.
One day at noon, while on a stroll down to a part of the
shore that was new to me, what should I see on the sand but
the print of a man's foot! I felt as if I was bound by a spell,
and could not stir from the spot.
By-and-bye, I stole a look round me, but no one was in
sight. What could this mean? I went three or four times to
look at it. There it was—the print of a man's foot; toes, heel,
and all the parts of a foot. How could it have come there?
My head swam with fear; and as I left the spot, I made
two or three steps, and then took a look round me; then two
steps more, and did the same thing. I took fright at the
stump of an old tree, and ran to my house, as if for my life.
How could aught in the shape of a man come to that shore,
THE PRINT OF A FOOT
37
and I not to know it? Where was the ship that brought him?
Then'a vague dread took hold of my mind, that some man, or
set of men, had found me out; and it might be, that they
meant to kill me, or rob me of all I had.

HIS FRIGHT AT SIGHT OF THE FOOT PRINT.
How strange a thing is the life of man I One day we love
that which the next day we hate. One day we seek what the
next day we shun. One day we long for the thing which the
next day we fear; and so we go on. Now, from the time that
I was cast on this isle, my great source of grief was that I
should be thus cut off from the rest of my race. Why, then,
should the thought that a man might be near give me all this
pain? Nay, why should the mere sight of the print of a man's
foot make me quake with fear? It seems most strange, yet
not more strange than true.
Once it struck me that it might be the print of my own foot,
when first the storm cast me on these shores. Could I have
come this way from the boat? Should it in truth turn out to
be the print of my own foot, I should be like a boy who tells
A a ghost, and feels more fright at his own tale, than those do
whom he meant to scare.
Fear kept me in doors for three days, till the want of food
drove me out. At last I was so bold as to go down to the
coast to look once more at the print of the foot, to see if it was
the same shape as my own. I found it was not so large by a
great deal; so it was clear there were men in the isle. Just at
this time my good watch dog fell down dead at my feet. He
was old and worn out, and in him I lost my best guard and
friend.
One day as I went from the hill to the coast, a scene lay in
front of me which made me sick at heart. The spot was spread
with the bones of men. There was a round place dug in the
earth, where a fire had been made, and here some men had
come to feast. Now that I had seen this sight, I knew not
how to act; I kept close to my home, and would scarce stir
from it, save to milk my flock of goats.
To feel safe was now more to me than to be well fed; and I
did not care to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood, lest the
sound of it should be heard, much less would I fire a gun. As
to my bread and meat, I had to bake it at night when the
smoke could not be seen. But I soon found the way to burn
wood with turf at the top of it, which made it like chark, or
dry coal; and this I could use by day, as it had no smoke.
I found in the wood where I went to get the sticks for my
lire, a cave so large that I could stand in it; but I made more
haste to get out than in; for two large eyes, as bright as stars,
shone out from it with a fierce glare. I took a torch, and
went to see what they could be, and found that there was no
cause for fear; for the eyes were those of an old grey goat,
which had gone there to die of old age. I gave him a push,
to try to get him out of the cave, but he could not rise from
the ground where he lay; so I left him there to die, as I could
not save his life.
I found the width of the cave was twelve feet; but part of it,
near the end, was so low that I had to creep on my hands and
feet to go in. What the length of it was I could not tell, for
my light went out, and I had to give up my search. The next
day I went to the cave with large lights made of goat's fat;
and when I got to the end, I found that the roof rose to two
score feet or more.
As my lights shone on the walls and roof of the cave, a sight
burst on my view, the charms of which no tongue could tell;
for the walls shone like stars. What was in the rock to cause
this it was hard to say; they might be gems, or bright stones,
or gold. But let them be what they may, this cave was a
mine of wealth to me; for at such time as I felt dull or sad,
the bright scene would flash on my mind's eye, and fill it with
joy.
All these years had gone by, with no new sight to rest my
eyes on, till this scene burst on them. I felt as if I should
like to spend the rest of my life here, and at its close, lie
down to die in this cave, like the old goat.
As I went home I was struck by the sight of some smoke,
which came from a fire no more than two miles off. From this
time I lost all my peace of mind. Day and night a dread
4©
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
would haunt me, that the men who had made this fire would
find me out. I went home and drew up my steps, but first I
made all things round me look wild and rude. To load my
gun was the next thing to do, and I thought it would be best
to stay at home and hide_

HE SEES SOME SMOKE.
But this was not to be borne long. I had no spy to send
out, and all I could- do was to get to the top of the hill, and
keep a good look out. At last, through my glass, I could see
a group of wild men join in a dance round their fire. As soon
as they had left, I took two guns, and slung a sword on my
side; then with all speed, I set off to the top of the hill, once
more to have a good view.
This time I made up my mind to go up to the men, but not
with a view to kill them, for I felt that it would be wrong to
do so. With such a load of arms, it took me two hours to
reach the spot where the fire was; and by the time I got there,
the men had all gone; but I saw them in four boats out at sea.
THE WILD MEN'S FEAST.
4i
Down on the shore, there was a proof of what the work of
these men had been. The signs of their feast made me sick at
heart, and I shut my eyes. I durst not fire my gun when I
went out for food on that side the isle, lest there should be

HE SEES THE WILD MEN.
some of the men left, who might hear it, and so find me out.
This state of things went on for a year and three months, and
for all that time I saw no more men.
On the twelfth of May, a great storm of wind blew all day
and night. As it was dark, I sat in my house; and in the midst
of the gale, I heard a gun fire! My guess was that it must
have been from some ship cast on shore by the storm. So I
set a light to some wood on top of the hill, that those in the
ship, if ship it should be, might know that some one was there
to aid them. I then heard two more guns fire. When it was
light, I went to the south side of the isle, and there lay the
wreck of a ship, cast on the rocks in the night by the storm.
She was too far off for me to see if there were men on board.
Words could not tell how much I did long to bring but one
of the ship's crew to the shore! So strong was my wish to
save the life of those on board, that I could have laid down my
own life to do so. There are some springs in the heart which,
when hope stirs them, drive the soul on with such a force, that
to lose all chance of the thing one hopes for, would seem to
make one mad; and thus was it with me.
Now, I thought, was the time to use my boat; so I set to
work at once to fit it out. I took on board some rum (of which
I still had a good deal left), some dry grapes, a bag of rice,
some goat's milk, and cheese, and then put out to sea. A
dread came on me at the thought of the risk I had run on the
same rocks; but my heart did not quite fail me, though I knew
that, as my boat was small, if a gale of wind should spring up,
all would be lost. Then I found that I must go back to the
shore till the tide should turn, and the ebb come on.
I made up my mind to go out the next day with the high
tide, so I slept that night in my boat. At dawn I set out to
sea, and in less than two hours I came up to the wreck. What
a scene was there! The ship had struck on two rocks. The
stern was torn by the force of the waves, the masts were swept
A SHIP CAST ON THE ROCKS. 43
off, ropes and chains lay strewn on the deck, and all was wrapt
in gloom. As I came up to the wreck, a dog swam to me with
a yelp and a whine. I took him on board my boat, and when
I gave him some bread, he ate it like a wolf, and as to drink,
he would have burst if I had let 'him take his fill of it.
I went to the cook's room, where I found two men, but they
were both dead. The tongue was mute, the ear was deaf, the
eye was shut, and the lip was stiff; still the sad tale was told,
for each had his arm round his friend's neck, and so they must
have sat to wait for death. What a change had come on the
scene, once so wild with the lash of the waves and the roar of
the wind! All was calm now—death had done its work, and
all had felt its stroke, save the dog, and he was the one thing
that still had life.
I thought the ship must have come from Spain, and there
was much gold on board. I took some of the chests and put
them in my boat, but did not wait to see what they held, and
with this spoil, and three casks of rum, I came back.
I found all things at home just as I had left them, my goats,
my cats, and my bird. The scene in the cook's room was in my
mind day and night, and to cheer me up I drank some of the
rum. I then set to work to bring my freight from the shore,
where I had left it. In the chests there were two great bags
of gold, and some bars of the same, and near these lay three
small flasks and three bags of shot, which were a great prize.
From this time, all went well with me for two years; but it
was not to last. One day, as I stood on the hill, I saw six
boats on the shore! What could this mean? Where were
the men who had brought them? And what had they come
for? I saw through my glass that there were a score and a
half, at least, on the east side of the isle. They had meat on
the fire, round which I could see them dance. They then took
a man from one of the boats, who was bound hand and foot;
but when they came to loose his bonds, he set off as fast as his
feet would take him, and in a straight line to my house.
To tell the truth, when I saw all the rest of the men run to
catch him, my hair stood on end with fright. In the creek, he
swam like a fish, and the plunge which he took brought him
through it in a few strokes. All the men now gave up the
chase but two, and they swam through the creek, but by no
means so fast as the slave had done. Now, I thought, was the
time for me to help the poor man, and my heart told me it
would be right to do so. I ran down my steps with my two
guns, and went with all speed up the hill, and then down by a
short cut to meet them.
I gave a sign to the poor slave to come to me, and at the
same time went up to meet the two men who were in chase of
him. I made a rush at the first of these, to krtock him down
with the stock of my gun, and he fell. I saw the one who was
left aim at me with his bow, so, to save my life, I shot him
dead.
The smoke and noise from my gun, gave the poor slave
who had been bound, such a shock, that he stood still on the
spot, as if he had been in a trance. I gave a loud shout for
him to come to me, and I took care to show him that I was a
friend, and made all the signs I could think of to coax him up
to me. At length he came, knelt down to kiss the ground,
and then took hold of my foot, and set it on his head. All
THE SLAVE. 45
this meant that he was my slave; and I bade him rise, and
made much of him.
But there was more-work to be done yet, for the man who
had had the blow from my gun was not dead. I made a sign
for my slave (as I shall now call him) to look at him. At this
he spoke to me, and though I could not make out what he
said, yet it gave me a shock of joy; for it was the first sound
of a man's voice that I had heard, for all the years I had been
on the isle.
The man whom I had struck with the stock of my gun, sat
up; and my slave, who was in great fear of him, made signs
for me to lend him my sword, which hung in a belt at my side.
With this he ran up to the man, and with one stroke cut off
his head. When he had done this, he brought me back my
sword with a laugh, and put it down in front of me. I did not
like to see the glee with which he did it, and I did not feel
that my own life was quite safe with such a man.
He, in his turn, could but lift up his large brown hands with
awe, to think that I had put his foe to death, while I stood so
far from him. But as to the sword, he and the rest of his
tribe made use of swords of wood, and this was why he knew
so well how to wield mine. He made signs to me to let him
go and see the man who had been shot; and he gave him a
turn round, first on this side, then on that; and when he saw
the wound made in his breast by the shot, he stood quite still
once more, as if he had lost his wits. I made signs for him to
come back, for my fears told me that the rest of the men might
come in search of their friends.
I did not like to take my slave to my house, nor to my cave;
so I threw down some straw from the rice plant for him to sleep
on, and gave him some bread and a bunch of dry grapes to eat.
He was a fine man, with straight strong limbs, tall, and young.
His hair was thick, like wool, and black. His head was large
and high, and he had bright black eyes. He was of a dark
brown hue; his face was round, and his nose small, but not
flat; he had a good mouth with thin lips, with which he could
give a soft smile; and his teeth were as white as snow.
I had been to milk my goats in the field close by, and when
he saw me, he ran to me, and lay down on the ground to show
me his thanks. He then put his head on the ground, and set
my foot on his head, as he had done at first. He took all the
means he could think of, to let me know that he would serve
me all his life; and I gave a sign to show that I thought well
of him.
The next thing was to think of some name to call him by.
I chose that of the sixth day of the week (Friday), as he came
to me on that day. I took care not to lose sight of him all
that night, and when the sun rose, I made signs for him to come
to me, that I might give him some clothes, for he wore none.
We then went up to the top of the hill, to look out for the men;
but as we could not see them, or their boats, it was clear that
they had left the isle.
My slave has since told me that they had had a great fight
with the tribe that dwelt next to them, and that all those men
whom each side took in war were their own by right. My
slave's foes had four who fell to their share, of whom he was
one.
I now set to work to make my man a cap of hare's skin, and
HIS MAN FRIDAY.
47
gave him a goat's skin to wear round his waist. It was a great
source of pride to him, to find that his clothes were as good as
my own.

GIVES CLOTHES TO HIS SLAVE.
At night, I kept my guns, sword, and bow close to my side;
but there was no need for this, as my slave was, in sooth, most
true to me. He did all that he Was set to do, with all his whole
heart in the work; and I knew that he would lay down his life
to save mine. What could a man do more than that? And oh,
the joy to have him here to cheer me in this lone isle!
I did my best to teach him, so like a child as he was, to do
and feel all that was right. I found him apt, and full of fun;
and he took great pains to learn all that I could tell him. Our
lives ran on in a calm, smooth way; and, but for the vile feasts
which were held on the shores, I felt no wish to leave the isle.
As Friday had by no means lost his zest for these meals, it
struck me that the best way to cure him was to let him taste
the flesh of beasts; so I took him with me one day to the wood
for some sport. I saw a .she goat, in the shade, with her two
kids. I caught Friday by the arm, and made signs to him not
to stir, and then shot one of the kids; but the noise of the gun
£ave the poor man a great shock. He did not see the kid, nor
did he know that it was dead. He tore his dress off his breast
to feel if there was a wound there; then he knelt down to me,
and took hold of my knees to pray of me not to kill him.
To show poor Friday that his life was quite safe, I led him
by the hand, and told him to fetch the kid. By-and-bye, I saw
a hawk in a tree, so I bade him look at the gun, the hawk, and
the ground; and then I shot the bird. But my poor slave gave
still more signs of fear this time than he did at first, for he
shook from head to foot. He must have thought that some
fiend of death dwelt in the gun, and I think that he would have
knelt down to it, as well as to me; but he would not so much
as touch the gun for some time, though he would speak to it
when he thought I was not near. Once he told me that what
he said to it was to ask it not to kill him.
FRIDAY LEARNS TO MAKE BREAD. 49
I brought home the bird, and made broth of it. Friday was
much struck to see me eat salt with it, and made a wry face;
but I, in my turn, took some that had no salt with it, and I
made a wry face at that. The next day I gave him a piece of
kid's flesh, which I had hung by a string in front of the fire to
roast. My plan was to put two poles, one on each side of the
fire, and a stick on the top of them to hold the string. When
my slave came to taste the flesh, he took the best means to let
me know now good he thought it.
The next day I set him to beat out and sift some corn. I let
him see me make the bread, and he soon did all the work. I
felt quite a love for his true, warm heart, and he soon learnt to
talk to me. One day I said, " Do the men of your tribe win
in fight?" He told me, with a smile, that they did. "Well,
then," said I, "how came they to let their foes take you?"
"They run one, two, three, and make go in the boat that
time."
"Well, and what do the men do with those they take?"
"Eat them all up."
This was not good news for me, but I went on, and said,
"Where do they take them?"
"Go to next place where they think."
"Do they come here?"
"Yes, yes, they come here, come else place too."
"Have you been here with them twice?"
"Yes, come there."
He meant the north-west side of the isle, so to this spot I
took him the next day. He knew the place, and told me he
was there once, and with him twelve men. To let me know
this, he placed twelve stones all of a row, and made me count
them.
"Are not the boats lost on your shore now and then?" He
said that there was no fear, and that no boats were lost. He
told me that up a great way by the moon—that is, where the
moon then came up—there dwelt a tribe of white men like me,
with beards. I felt sure that they must have come from Spain,
to work the gold mines. I put this to him: "Could I go from
this isle and join those men?"
"Yes, yes, you may go in two boats."
It was hard to see how one man could go in two boats, but
what he meant was, a boat twice as large as my own.
One day I said to my slave, " Do you know who made you?"
But he could not tell at all what these words meant. So I
said, "Do you know who made the sea, the ground we tread
on, the hills, and woods?" He said it was Beek, whose home
was a great way off, and that he was so old, that the sea and
the land were not so old as he.
"If this old man has made all things, why do not all things
bow down to him?"
My slave gave a grave look, and said, "All things say 'O'
to him."
"Where do the men in your land go when they die?"
"All go to Beek."
I then held my hand up to the sky to point to it, and said,
"God dwells there. He made the world, and all things in it.
The moon and the stars are the work of His hand. God sends
the wind and the rain on the earth, and the streams that flow: He
hides the face of the sky with clouds, makes the grass to grow
FRIDAY TELLS OF GOD. 51
for the beasts of the field, and herbs for the use of man. God's
love knows no end. When we pray, He draws near to us and
hears us."
It was a real joy to my poor slave to hear me talk of these
things. He sat still for a long time, then gave a sigh, and
told me that he would say " O " to Beek no more, for he was
but a short way off, and yet could not hear till men went up
the hill to speak to him
"Did you go up the hill to speak to him?" said I.
"No, Okes go up to Beek, not yo*ung mans."
"What do Okes say to him?"
"They say 'O.'"
Now that I brought my man Friday to know that Beek was
not the true God, such was the sense he had of my worth, that
I had fears lest I should stand in the place of Beek. I did my
best to call forth his faith in Christ, and make it strong and
clear, till at last—thanks be to the Lord—I brought him to the
love of Him, with the whole grasp of his soul.
To please my poor slave, I gave him a sketch of my whole life;
I told him where I was born, and where I spent my days when
a child. He was glad to hear tales of the land of my birth,
and of the trade which we keep up, in ships, with all parts of
the known world. I gave him a knife and a belt, which made
him dance with joy.
One day as we stood on the top of the hill at the east side of
the isle, I saw him fix his eyes on the main land, and stand for
a long time to gaze at it; then jump and sing, and call out to
me.
"What do you see?" said I.
4—2
"O joy!" said he, with a fierce glee in his eyes, "O glad 1
There see my land!"
Why did he*strain his eyes to stare at this land, as if he had
a wish to be there? It put fears in my mind which made me
feel far less at my ease with him. Thought I, if he should go
back to his home, he will think no more of what I have taught
him and done for him. He will be sure to tell the rest of his
tribe all my ways, and come back with, it may be, scores of them,
and kill me, and then dance round me, as they did round the
men, the last time they came on my isle.
But these were all false fears, though they found a place in
my mind a long while; and I was not so kind to him now as
I had been. From this time I made it a rule, day by day, to
find out if there were grounds for my fears or not. I said,
"Do you not wish to be once more in your own land?"
"Yes I I be much O glad to be at my own land."
"What would you do there? Would you turn wild, and be
as you were?"
"No, no, I would tell them to be good, tell them eat bread,
corn, milk, no eat man more!"
"Why, they would kill you!"
"No, no, they no kill; they love learn."
He then told me that some white men, who had come on
their shores in a boat, had taught them a great deal.
"Then will you go back to your land with me?"
He said he could not swim so far, so I told him he should
help me to build a boat to go in. Then he said, " If you go, I
go-"
"I go? why, they would eat me!"
A NEW BOAT. 53
"No, me make them much love you."
Then he told me as well as he could, how kind they had been
to some white men. I brought out the large boat to hear what
he thought of it, but he said it was too small. We then went to
look at the old ship's boat, which, as it had been in the sun for
years, was not at all in a sound state. The poor man made sure
that it would do. But how were we to know this? I told him
we should build a boat as large as that, and that he should go
home in it. He spoke not a word, but was grave and sad.
"What ails you?" said I.
"Why you grieve mad with your man?"
"What do you mean? I am not cross with you."
"No cross? no cross with me? Why send your man home
to his own land, then?"
"Did you not tell me you would like to go back?"
"Yes, yes, we both there; no wish self there, if you not
there!"
"And what should I do there?"
"You do great deal much good ! you teach wild men be good
men; you tell them know God, pray God, and lead new life."
We soon set to work to make a boat that would take us
both. The first thing was to look out for some large trees that
grew near the shore, so that we could launch our boat when it
was made. My slave's plan was to burn the wood to make it
the right shape; but as mine was to hew it, I set him to work
with my tools, and in two months' time we had made a good
strong boat; but it took a long while to get her down to the
shore.
Friday had the whole charge of her; and, large as she was,
he made her move with ease, and said, "he thought she go
there well, though great blow wind!" He did not know that
I meant to make a mast and sail. I cut down a young fir-tree
for the mast, and then I set to work at the sail. It made me
laugh to see my man stand and stare, when he came to watch
me sail the boat. But he soon gave a jump, a laugh, and a
clap of the hands when he saw the sail jib and fall, first on this
side, then on that.
The next thing to do was to stow our boat up in the creek,
where we dug a small dock; and when the tide was low, we
made a dam, to keep out the sea. The time of year had now
come for us to set sail, so we got out all our stores, to put them
in the boat.
One day I sent Friday to the shore, to get a sort of herb that
grew there. I soon heard him cry out to me, "O grief! O
bad! O bad! O out there boats, one, two, three!" "Keep a
stout heart," said I, to cheer him. The poor man shook with
fear; for he thought that the men who brought him here, had
now come back to kill him.
"Can you fight?" said I.
"Me shoot-; but me saw three boats; one, two, three!"
"Have no fear; those that we do not kill, will be sure to
take fright at the sound of our guns. Now will you stand by
me, and do just as you are bid?"
"Me die when you bid die."
I gave him a good draught of rum; and when he had drunk
this, he took up an axe and two guns, each of which had a
charge of swan shot. I took two guns as well, and put large
shot in them, and then hung my great sword by my side. From
THREE STRANGE BOATS.
55
the top of the hill, I saw with the help of my glass, that the
boats had each brought eight men, and one slave. They had
come on shore near the creek, where a grove of young trees
grew close down to the sea.

J.6.YK
THEY GO TO AID THE WHITE MEN.
They had with them three slaves, bound hand and foot, and
you who read this, may guess what they were brought here
for. I felt that I must try and save them from so hard a fate,
and that to do this, I should have to put some of their foes to
death. So we set forth on our way. I gave Friday strict
charge to keep close to me, and not to fire till I told him to
do so.
We went full a mile out of our way, that we might get round
to the wood to hide there. But we had not gone far, when my
old qualms came back to me, and I thought, " Is it for me to
dip my hands in man's blood? Why should I kill those who
have done me no harm, and mean not to hurt me? Nay, who
do not so much as know that they are in the wrong, whe.n they
hold these feasts. Are not their ways a sign that God has left
them (with the rest of their tribe) to their own dull hearts?
God did not call me to be a judge for Him. He who said
4 Thou shalt not kill,' said it for me, as well as the rest of the
world."
A throng of thoughts like these would rush on my mind, as
if to warn me to pause, till I felt sure that there was more to
call me to the work than I then knew of. I took my stand in
the wood, to watch the men at their feast, and then crept on,
with Friday close at my heels. Thus we went till we came to
the skirts of the wood. Then I said to Friday, " Go up to the
top of that tree, and bring me word if you can see the men."
He went, and, quick as thought, came back to say that they
were all round the fire, and that the man who was bound on
the sand would be the next they would kill. But when he told
me that it was a white man, one of my own race, I felt the
blood boil in my veins. Two of the gang had gone to loose
the white man from his bonds; so now was the time to fire.
At the sound of our guns, we saw all the men jump up from
the ground where they sat. It must have been the first gun
they had heard in their lives. They knew not which way to look.
I now threw down my piece, and took up a small gun; Friday
did the same; and I gave him the word to fire. The men ran
right and left, with yells and screams.
I now made a rush out of the wood, that they might see me,
THEY SAVE THE WHITE MAN.
57
with my man Friday at my heels, of course. We gave a loud
shout, and ran up to the white man as fast as we could. There
he lay on the hot sand. I cut the flag, or rush, by which he
was bound, but he was too weak to stand or speak, so I gave
him some rum. He let me know by all the signs that he could

THE WHITE MAN NEAR DEATH.
think of, how much he stood in my debt for all that I had
done for him.
I said, "We will talk of that by-and-bye; but now we must
do what we can to save our lives." Friday, who was free to go
where he chose, flew here and there, and put all the men to the
rout. They fled in full haste to their boats, and were soon out
at sea; and so we got rid of our foes at last.
The man whom we had found on the sand told us that his
name was Carl, and that he came from Spain. But there was
one more man to claim our care; for the black men had left a
small boat on the sands, and in this I saw a poor wretch who
lay half dead. He could not so much as look up, so tight was
he bound, neck and heels. When I cut the bonds from him
he gave a deep groan, for he thought that all this was but to
lead him out to die.
Friday then came up, and I bade him speak to the old man
in his own tongue, and tell him that he was free. This good
news gave him strength, and he sat up in the boat. But when
Friday came to hear him talk, and to look him in the face, it
brought the tears to my eyes to see him kiss and hug the
poor old man, and dance round him with joy, then weep,
wring his hands, and beat his own face and head, and then
laugh once more, sing and leap. For a long time he could
not speak to me, so as to let me know what all this meant.
But at length he told me that he was the son of this poor old
man, and that his name was Jaf.
It would be a hard task for me to tell of all the quaint signs
Friday made to show his joy. He went in and out of the
boat five or six times, sat down by old Jaf, and held the
poor old man's head close to his breast to warm it; then he
set to work to rub his arms and feet, which were cold and
stiff from the bonds. I told Friday to give him some rum
and bread; but he said, "None! Bad dog eat all up self."
He then ran off straight to the house, and took no heed of
my calls, but went as swift as a deer.
In an hour's time, he came back with a jug in his hand.
The good soul had gone all the way to the house, that Jaf
might have a fresh draught from my well; and with it he
CARL AND JAF. 59
brought two cakes, one of which I bade him take to Carl, who
lay in the shade of a tree. His limbs were stiff and cold, and
he was too weak to say a word.
I set my man to rub his feet with rum, and while he did so,
I saw Friday turn his head round from time to time, to steal
a look at the old man. Then we brought Carl and Jaf home
from the boat on our backs, as they could not walk. The door
of my house was at the top, and the poor sick men could not
climb the steps by which I got in, so> we made for them a tent
of old sails.
I was now a king of these three men, as well as lord of
the isle; and I felt proud to say "They all owe their lives to
their king, and would lay them down for him if he bade them
do so" But I did not think that my reign was so soon to
come to an .end. The next thing for us to do was to give
Carl and Jaf some food, and to kill and roast a kid, to which
we all four sat down, and I did my best to cheer them.
Carl in a few days grew quite strong, and I set him to work
to dig some land for seed; for it was clear we should want
more corn now that we had two more mouths to fill. So we
put in the ground all the stock of grain I had, and thus we
all four had as much work as we could do for some time.
When the crop grew, and was ripe, we found we had a good
store of grain.
We made a plan that Carl and Jaf should go back to the
main land, to try if they could get some of the white men, who
had been cast on shore there, to come and live with us; so
they got out the boat, and took with them two guns, and
food for eight days. They were to come back in a week's
time, and I bade them hang out a sign when they came in
sight, so that we might know who they were.
One day, Friday ran up to me in great glee, and said, "They
are back! They are back I" A mile from shore, there was a
boat with a sail, which stood in for the land; but I knew it
could not be the one which*our two friends had gone out in, for
it was on the wrong side of the isle for that. I saw too, through
my glass, a ship out at sea. There were twelve men in the boat,
three of whom were bound in chains, and four had fire arms.
By-and-bye, I saw one of the men raise his sword to those
who were in chains, and I felt sure that all was not right. Then
I saw that three men who had been bound were set free; and
when they had come on shore they lay on the ground, in the
shade of a tree. I was soon at their side, for their looks, so
sad and worn, brought to my mind the first few hours I had
spent in this wild spot, where all to me was wrapt in gloom.
I went up to these men and said:
"Who are you, Sirs?"
They gave a start at my voice and at my strange dress, and
made a move as if they would fly from me. I said, "Do not
fear me, for it may be that you have a friend at hand, though
you do not think it." "He must be sent from the sky then,"
said one of them with a grave look; and he took off his hat
to me at the same time. "All help is from thence, Sir," I said.
"But what can I do to aid you? You look as if you had some
load of grief on your breast. I saw one of the men lift his
sword as if to kill you."
The tears ran down the poor man's face, as he said, "Is this
a god, or is it but a man?" "Have no doubt on that score,
PAUL AND HIS CREW.
tfi
Sir," said I, "for a god would not have come with a dress like
this. No, do not fear—nor raise your hopes too high; for you
see but a man, yet one who will do all he can to help you.'
Your speech shows me that you come from the same land as I
do. I will do all I can to serve you. Tell me your case.

PAUL STATES HIS CASE.
"Our case, Sir, is too long to tell you while they who would
kill us were so near. My name is Paul. To be short, Sir, my
crew have thrust me out of my ship, which you see out there,
and have left me here to die. It was as much as I could do to
make them sheathe their swords, which you saw were drawn
to slay me. They have set me down in this isle with these
two men, my friend here, and the ship's mate."
"Where have they gone?" said I.
"There, in the wood close by. I fear they may have seen
and heard Us. If they have, they will be sure to kill us all."
"Have they fire arms?"
"They have four guns, one of which is in the boat."
"Well then, leave all to me!"
"There are two of the men," said he, "who are worse than
the rest. All but these I feel sure would go back to work the
ship."
I thought it was best to speak out to Paul at once, and I
said, " Now if I save your life, there are two things which you
must do."
But he read my thoughts, and said, "If you save my life,
you shall do as you like with me and my ship, and take her
where you please."
I saw that the two men, in whose charge the boat had been
left, had come on shore; so the first thing I did was to send
Friday to fetch from it the oars, the sail, and the gun. And
now the ship might be said to be in our hands. When the
time came for the men to go back to the ship, they were in a
great rage; for, as the boat had now no sail nor oars, they
knew not how to get out to their ship.
We heard them say that it was a strange sort of isle, for that
sprites had come to the boat, to take off the sails and oars. We
could see them run to and fro, with great rage; then go and
sit in" the boat to rest, and then come on shore once more.
When they drew near to us, Paul and Friday would fain have
had me fall on them at once. But my wish was to spare them,
and kill as few as I could. I told two of my men to creep on
their hands and feet close to the ground, so that they might
MAKES TERMS WITH THE CREW 63
not be seen, and when they got up to the men, not to fire till
I gave the word.
They had not stood thus long, when three of the crew came
up to us. Till now, we had but heard their voice, but when
they came so near as to be seen, Paul and Friday stood up and
shot at them. Two of the men fell dead, and they were the
worst of the crew, and the third ran off. At the sound of the
guns I came up, but it was so dark that the men could not tell
if there were three of us or three score.
It fell out just as I could wish, for I heard the men ask, " To
whom must we yield, and where are they?" Friday told them
that Paul was there with the king of the isle, who had brought
with him a crowd of men! At this one of the crew said, " If
Paul will spare our lives, we will yield." "Then," said Friday,
"you shall know the king's will." Then Paul said to them,
"You know my voice; if you lay down your arms the king
will spare your lives."
They fell on their knees to beg the same of me. I took good
care that they did not see me, but I gave them my word that
they should all live, that I should take four of them to work
the ship, and that the rest would be bound hand and foot, for
the good faith of the four. This was to show them what a stern
king I was.
Of course I soon set them free, and I put them in a way to
take my place on the isle. I told them of all my ways, taught
them how to mind the goats, how to work the farm, and make
the bread. I gave them a house to live in, fire arms, tools, and
my two tame cats,—in fact, all but Poll and my gold.
As I sat on the top of the hill, Paul came up to me. He
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
held out his hand to point to the ship, and with much warmth
took me to his arms, and said, "My dear friend, there is your
ship I for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that is in her."

HIS JOY AT SIGHT OF THIS SHIP.
I cast rny eyes to the ship, which rode half a mile off the
shore, at the mouth of the creek, and near the place where I
had brought my rafts to the land. Yes, there she stood, the
ship that was to set me free, and to take me where I might
choose to go. She set her sails to the wind, and her flags
BACK TO THE LAND OF HIS BIRTH. 65
threw out their gay stripes in the breeze. Such a sight was too
much for me, and I fell down faint with joy. Paul then took
out a flask which he had brought for me, and gave me a dram,
which I drank, but for a good while I could not speak to him.
Friday and Paul then went on board the ship, and Paul took
charge of her once more. We did not start that night, but at
noon the next day I left the isle !—that lone isle, where I had
spent so great a part of my life—not much less than thrice ten
long years.
When I came back to the dear land of my birth, all was
strange and new to me. I went to my old home at York, but
none of my friends were there, and to my great grief I saw,
on the stone at their grave, the sad tale of their death.
As they had thought, of course, that I was dead, they had
not left me their wealth and lands, so that I stood much in
want of means, for it was but a small sum that I had brought
with me from the isle. But in this time of need, I had the
luck to find my good friend who once took me up at sea. He
was now grown too old for work, and had put his son in the
ship in his place. He did not know me at first, but I was
soon brought to his mind when I told him who I was. I found
from him that the land which I had bought on my way to the
isle was now worth much.
As it was a long way off, I felt no wish to go and live there,
so I made up my mind to sell it, and in the course of a few
months, I got for it a sum so large as to make me a rich man
all at once.
Weeks, months, and years went by; I had a farm, a wife,
and two sons, and was by no means young; but still I could
5
not get rid of a strong wish which dwelt in my thoughts by
day and my dreams by night, and that was to set foot once
more in my old isle.
I had now no need to work for food, or for means of life;
all I had to do was to teach my boys to be wise and good, to
live at my ease, and see my wealth grow day by day. Yet the
wish to go back to my wild haunts clung round me like a cloud,
and I could in no way drive it from me, so true is it that " what
is bred in the bone will not come out of the flesh."
At length, I lost my wife, which was a great blow to me, and
my home was now so sad, that I made up my mind to launch
out once more on the broad sea, and go with my man Friday
to that lone isle where dwelt all my hopes.
I took with me as large a store of tools, clothes, and such
like goods as I had room for, and men of skill in all kinds of
trades, to live in the isle. When we set sail, we had a fair
wind for some time, but one night the mate, who was at the
watch, told me he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun go off.
At this we all ran on deck, from whence we saw a great light,
and as there was no land that way, we knew that it must be
some ship on fire at sea, which could not be far off, for we heard
the sound of the gun.
The wind was still fair, so we made our way for the point
where we saw the light, and in half an hour it was but too
plain that a large ship was on fire in the midst of the broad sea.
I gave the word to fire off five guns, and we then lay by, to wait
till break of day. But in the dead of the, night the ship blew
up in the air, the flames shot forth, and what there was left of
the ship sank. We hung out lights, and our guns kept up a
ON THE WAY BACK.
67
fire all night long, to let the crew know that there was help at
hand.
At eight o'clock the next day we found, by the aid of the
glass, that two of the ship's boats were out at sea, quite full of

DEATH OF HIS WIFE.
men. They had seen us, and had done their best to make ns
see them, and in half an hour we came up with them.
It would be a hard task for me to set forth in words the scene
which took place in my ship, when the poor French folk (for
such they were) came on board. As to grief and fear, these are
soon told—sighs, tears, and groans make up the sum of them
—but such a cause of joy as this was, in sooth, too much for
them to bear, weak and all but dead as they were.
Some would send up shouts of joy that rent the sky; some
would cry and wring their hands as if in the depths of grief;
some would dance, laugh, and sing; not a few were dumb, sick,
faint, in a swoon, or half mad; and two or three were seen to
give thanks to God.
In this strange group, there was a young French priest who
did his best to soothe those around him, and I saw him go up
to some of the crew, and say to them, "Why do you scream,
and tear your hair, and wring your hands, my men? Let your
joy be free and full, give it full range and scope, but leave off
this trick of the hands, and lift them up in praise; let your
voice swell out, not in screams, but in hymns of thanks to God,
who has brought you out of so great a strait, for this will add
peace to your joy."
The next day they were all in a right frame of mind, so 1
gave them what stores I could spare, and put them on board a
ship that we met with on her way to France, all save five, who,
with the priest, had a wish to join me.
But we had not set sail long when we fell in with a ship that
had been blown out to sea by a storm, and had lost her masts;
and, worse than all, her crew had not had an ounce of meat or
bread for ten days. I gave them all some food, which they ate
like wolves in the snow, but I thought it best to check them,
as I had fears that so much all at once would cause the death
of some of them.
There were a youth and a young girl in the ship who the
THE ISLE IN SIGHT. 69
..mate said he thought must be dead, but he had not had the heart
to go near them, for the food was all gone. I found that they
were faint for the want of it, and as it were in the jaws of death;
but in a short time they both got well, and as they had no wish
to go back to their ship, I took them with me. So now I had
eight more on board my ship, than I had when I first set out.
In three months from the time when I left home, I came in
sight of my isle, and I brought the ship safe up by the side of
the creek, which was near my old house.
I went up to Friday, to ask if he knew where he was. He
took a look round him, and soon, with a clap of the hands, said
"O yes! O there! O yes! O there!" By-and-bye he set up a
dance with such wild glee, that it was as much as I could do to
keep him on deck. "Well, what think you, Friday?" said I,
"shall we find those whom we left still here?"
He stood quite mute for a while, but when I spoke of old Jaf
(whose son Friday was), the tears ran down his face, and his
heart was full of grief.
"No, no," said he, "no more; no, no more."
"How do you know that?" said I; but he shook his head
and said, "O no, O no; he long dead, he much old man."
Just then his quick eye caught sight of some men at the top
of the hill, and he said, " I see men there, there, there!"
I could not see the least sign of them, but I gave the word
to fire three guns, to show that we were friends, and soon we
saw smoke rise from the side of the creek. I then got out the
boat, put up a flag of peace, and went on shore with Friday,
the French priest, and some of the crew. We all had arms
with us, in case there should be foes on the isle that we knew
not of, but we found that there was no need to be on our guard.
The first man I cast my eyes on at the creek was my old friend
Carl from Spain, whom I took from the hands of the red men
when I was last on the isle.
I gave strict charge to all in the boat not to go on shore, but
Friday could not be kept back, for he had caught sight of old Jaf.
We stood by to watch him fly to the old man like a shaft from
a bow, and catch him in his arms, and stroke him, and set him
down in the shade; he then stood a short way off to look at
him, with all his soul in his eyes, as one might view some choice
work of art. He next led the old man by the hand up and
down the shore, and now and then came to the boat to fetch
him a cake, or a sip of rum ; then he would set him down once
more on the ground, dance round and round him, and all the
while tell him strange tales of what he had seen since he and
old Jaf had last met.
Carl and his friends bore a flag of truce like mine, and at first
Carl could not make out who I was; but when I spoke to him
in his own tongue, he threw up his arms and said that he felt
shame not to have known the face of the man who had once
come to save him. He shook my hands with much warmth, and
then took me to my old house, which he now gave up to me.
I could no more have found the spot than if I had not been
there at all, for the trees were so thick and close, that the house
could not be got at save by such blind ways as none but those
who made them could find out. "Why should you raise so
strong a fence round you?" said I; but Carl told me he felt
sure I should think there was much need of it when I had heard
all that had come to pass since I was last on the isle.
ON THE ISLE ONCE MORE.
71
He then sent for the old crew of Paul's ship, but I could not
guess who they were, till Carl said, "These, Sir, are some of
the men who owe their lives to you."

CARL'S JOY AT SIGHT OF HIS OLD FRIEND.
Then one by one they came up to me, not as if they had been
the rough crew of a ship, but like men of rank who had come
to kiss the hand of their king.
The first thing was for me to hear all that had been done
in the isle since I had left it.
I must make a short pause in this part of my tale, and state
that when T was last on the isle I sent off Carl and Jaf to the
main land to fetch some of Carl's friends who had been cast
on shore there on their way from Spain. Of course I had no
hope then that a ship was so near to take me to the land of my
birth. So when Carl and Jaf came back to the isle they found
that I had gone, and that five strange men were there in my
place.
These five men were part of the crew who had thrust Paul
out of his ship. Two of them, whose names were Sam and
Joe, were not so bad as their three mates, who were a set of
great rogues, and were led by one of the name of Will. When
I left the isle in Paul's ship, I took Sam and Joe on board
with me, but just as I was on the point to sail, they got out
one of the ship's boats and went back to the isle, to join their
three friends.
I will now go on to tell, just as I heard it from Carl, all
that had come to pass since I had left the isle. When Will
and his men saw that their two mates had come to join them,
they would have no more to do with them, nor would they let
them have a share in the house, nor food to eat So Sam and
Joe had to live as well as they could by hard work, and ..rey
set up their home on the north shore of the isle, where they
built huts and sheds, and made a farm.
To be just to Will, I must here state that, bad as he was,
he did two kind things, when Carl and his friends came back
to the isle, for he gave them food to eat, and he put my note
in Carl's hands, as well as a long scroll on which I had set
down how they were to bake the bread, bring up the tame
goats, plant the corn, dry the grapes, and make pots and pans,
just as I had done.
For some time all went on well with Carl and his men in
my old home. They had the use of the house and the cave,
and went in and out just as they chose. Carl and Jaf did the
work, and as for Will and his friends, all they did was to shoot
birds, and roam on the shore. When they came home at night,
they sat down to eat of all the good things in the house, for
which they gave no thanks, and like the dog in the ox's stall,
when they did not care to eat, they would not let the rest do
so. Of such small things as these it would not be worth my
while to tell, but that at last they broke out in a fierce strife
with the rest, and their spite grew to such a pitch that flesh
and blood could not stand it.
When Carl—whom I shall now call the "Chief," as he took
the lead of all the rest—first came back from the main land,
he would have let all the five men of Paul's crew live in the
house, and be good friends if they could; but the three rogues
would not hear of it, so the Chief gave poor Sam and Joe corn
for seed, as well as some peas which I had left on the isle,
and they soon learnt to dig and plant, and hedge in their land,
in the mode which I had set for them, and in short to lead
good lives.
When the three bad men saw this, they were full of spite,
and set to work to tease and vex them. They told them that
the isle was their own, and that no one else had a right to
build on it if they did not pay them rent. Sam and Joe
thought at first that this was a joke, and said, "Come and sit
down, and see what fine homes we have built; then tell us
what rent you wish us to pay, and in what coin you would
like to have it."
But Will soon made it plain that they were not in jest; for
he set fire to a torch and put it to the roof of the hut, and
would have burnt it down, had not Joe set his foot on the
torch, and put out the flame. This made Will so full of rage,
that he ran at him with a pole which he had in his hand, and
a fierce fight then took place, the end of which was that the
three rogues had to run off. But in a short time they came
back, trod down the corn, and shot the young kids, which the
poor men had got to bring up tame.
At last the spite of Will and his friends grew to such a
pitch, that one night they set off with fire arms to kill poor
Sam and Joe while they slept. But when they came to their
huts no one was to be found; so quoth Will, "Ha! here's the
nest, but the birds,are flown!" Then they fell to work to
pull down all that they could lay their hands on, and left not
a stick, nor so much as a sign to show where the huts had
stood; and they tore up all the young trees by the roots, and
flung them far and wide.
When Carl and his friends heard of these foul deeds, it
made their blood boil, but all that Will had to say was, "You,
Sir Jacks of Spain, shall have the same sauce if you do not
mend your ways." So Carl took from them their guns and
knives, and had them set in chains. As soon as they had
time to feel the pain of this kind of life, the three rogues grew
more cool, and sought to make peace, and to get back their
arms, and live at large. The Chief told them that in time
he would set them free, but that he could not let them live
in the house, nor give them their arms for three or four months.
At last they came to beg that Carl and his men would take
THE THREE ROGUES.
75
them in once more, and give them bread to eat, as they had
no food but eggs all that time. But the Chief said that he
would not yield till they had sworn to build up the huts which
they had torn down. So they did.
One day a whim took Will and his two friends that they
would go to the main land to try if they could seize some of

BROUGHT TO BAY.
the red men, and bring them home as slaves, to do the hard
part of their work for them.
Carl would have been glad to get rid of men whom he could
not well trust from day to day, but told them in good faith how
rash he thought his .plan was. Yet as their minds were made
up, he gave them from the stores all that they could want, and
a large boat to go in; and when the rest of the men bade them
"good speed," none thought they would find their way back to
the isle. But lo! in the course of three weeks they did in truth
come home. They said they had found the land in two days,
jiid that the red men gave them roots and fish to eat, and they
brought with them eight slaves, three of whom were men, and
five were girls. So they gave their good hosts an axe, a spade,
i screw, and an old key, and brought off the slaves in the boat.
As to the young girls, Carl and the rest of the men from
Spain did not care to wed them, so the five men from Paul's
crew drew lots for the choice, and each had one of them for a
wife, while the male slaves were set to work for the good of all,
though there was not much for them to do. But one of them,
ran off to the woods, and was not to be found, and as some of
the wild tribes had been on the isle to feast and dance, Carl
had good caus^ to fear that he might have gone back with them,
and that if he got safe home, he would be sure to tell his tribe
of the white men's haunts so near at hand.
One night Carl felt a great weight on his mind, and could
get no sleep. He lay still for some time, yet as he did not feel
at ease, he got up and took a look out, but as the night was too
dark for him to see, he went back to his bed once more. Still
it was of no use, for though he knew not why, his thoughts
would let him have no rest; he then woke up one of his
friends, and told him how it had been with him. "Say you
so?" said he. "What if some of the wild tribes have come on
shore, and it is the sound of their boats that woke you up?"
Then they set off to the top of the hill where I was wont to
go, and from thence they saw through a glass a fleet of more
than a score of boats, full of men who had bows, darts, clubs,
swords of wood, and such like arms of war; and it was clear
that a horde of some fierce tribe had come to trap and slay the
white men.
THE RED MEN COME ON SHORE. 77
Their boats were still far out at sea, so that Carl and his men
had some hours to think what they should do. Their force was
so small, that they thought it wise to hide and lie in wait.
They first made safe their wives and stores in a thick part of
the wood. In the next place, as soon as they saw that the red
men had come on shore, and that they bent their course that
way, they drove all the goats out to stray in the wood, just
where they chose, that the red men might think they were
wild.
Carl and his men then drew up in a small band, calm and
brave. Two of the wives could not be kept back, but would
go out and fight with bows and darts. Then Carl, as Chief of
the isle, took the lead, but he put Will at the head of one band
of men, for at this time he had shown such good faith, and
such shrewd, keen sense, that all thought well of his skill and
zeal.
As the Chief had not arms for all, he did not give guns to the
slaves, but each of them had a long staff with a spike at the
end, and an axe to hang at his side. They took up their post
in the wood near the site of the huts that were burnt down,
and there they lay in wait for the red men.
The foe now came on with a bold and fierce mien, not in a
line, but in crowds here and there, to the point where Carl lay
in wait for them. When the first band were so near as to be
in range of the guns, Carl gave the word for his men to shoot
at them all at once, so that those who came up first fell dead
on the spot, and great fear and dread came on the rest.
The Chief and his men then went forth from the skirts of the
wood where they had lain in wait, and fell on the foe from three
points with the butt end of their guns, and swords, and staves,
and they fought so well that the red men set up a loud shriek,
and fled for their lives with all the speed that fear and swift
feet could lend them. As the Chief did not care to give chase,
they got safe back to the shore where their boats lay.
But their rout was not yet at an end, for it blew a great storm
that day, so that the boats could not put off; and in the night
the tide drove most of them so high on the shore that they
could not be got to sea save with great toil, and the waves broke
some of them to bits.
At dawn of day, when the Chief saw how things stood, he
said, " If we let these men get their boats out and go back, they
will make it known to the rest of the tribes on the main land
that we are here, and there will be no end to our wars as long
as we live; but if we keep them here and treat them well, they
will not harm us." So to make sure that they should not leave
the isle, the Chief told his men to get some dry wood from dead
trees and set the boats on fire.
When the red men saw this they ran all round the isle with
loud cries, as if they were mad, so that Carl did not know at
first what to do with them, for they trod all the corn down with
their feet, and tore up the vines just as the grapes were ripe,
and did a great deal of harm.
At last the Chief sent old Jaf to tell the red men in their
own tongue how kind he would be to them; how he would save
their lives and give them part of the isle to live in, if they
would keep in their own bounds; and that they should have
corn and rice to plant, and bread to eat, till such time as the
crops should be ripe.
TERMS OF PEACE. 79
The poor men were but too glad to get such good terms of
peace, and they soon learnt to make all kinds of things with
canes and wood, such as chairs, stools, and beds; and this they
did with great skill when they were once taught. From this
time, till I came back to the isle, my friends saw no more of the
wild tribes.
When I heard this tale from Carl, my heart beat fast at the
thought of the great straits that he and the rest had been
brought through; and I was glad to find that in so small a
space as my isle (which at first held none but me) all these
tribes of the Great Race should now live in peace!
I was much struck with the change in the isle, for the trees
had grown, huts had sprung up, and a great part of the land
was sown for crops. As to Will's hut, it was quite a work of
art; it had strong posts at each point, and the walls and roof
were made of cane work; it had a thatch of straw from the rice
plant, and a huge leaf on the top to screen it from the sun.
I now told Carl that I had not come to take off his men, but
to bring more, and to give them.all such things as they might
want to guard their homes and cheer their hearts.
The next day I made a grand feast for them, and the ship's
cook came on shore to dress it. We brought out some of our
rounds of salt beef and pork, a bowl of punch, and some beer
and French wines, while Carl gave the cook five whole kids to
roast, three of which were sent to the crew on board ship, that
they on their part might feast on fresh meat from the shore.
I gave the men coats, shirts, hats, shoes, and all kinds of
clothes, both for warm and cold days, with gowns and shawls
for their wives, and I need not say how glad they were of such
gifts. Then I brought out a good stock of tools, from which
each man had a spade, a rake, an axe, a crow, a saw, and a knife,
as well as arms and all that they could want for the use of them.
As I now saw that there was good will on all sides, I brought
on shore the youth and the girl whom I took from the wreck
when they were half dead for want of food. The girl had been
brought up with care, and all the crew had a good word for
her. Both she and the youth felt a wish to be left on the isle,
as well as the French priest; so I gave them each a plot of
ground, on which they built tents and barns.
I had brought out with me men of skill to work on the isle,
one of whom could turn his hand to all sorts of things, so I
gave him the name of " Jack of all trades."
One day the French priest came to me to ask if I would
leave my man Friday on the isle; "For through him," said he,
"I could talk to the red men in their own tongue, and teach
them the things of God; and need I add it was for this cause
that I came here?" I felt that I could not part with my man
Friday for the whole world, so»I told the priest that if I could
have made up my mind to leave him, I was quite sure that
Friday would not leave me.
When I had seen that all things were in a good state on the
{sle, I set to work to put my ship in trim, that I might once
more quit these shores.
As I was on my way to the ship, the youth whom I spoke of
just now, came up to me, and said, "Sir, you have brought a
priest with you, and while you are still here we wish him to
wed two of us." I made sure that one of these must be the
maid that I had brought in my ship, and that it was the wish
THE BEST GIFT.
81
of the young man to make her his wife. So I spoke to him
with some warmth in my tone, and bade him turn it well in his
mind first, as the girl had not been brought up in the same

THE GIFT OF GOD'S WORD.
rank of life as he had. But he said with 'a smile that I had
made a wrong guess, for it was " Jack of all trades" that he had
come to plead for.
It gave me great joy to hear this, as I knew the girl was as
good as she could be, and I thought well, too, of Jack; so on
that day I gave her to him to be his wife. They were to have
a large piece of ground where they might grow their crops, with
a house to live in, and sheds for their goats and stores.
The isle was now set out in this way: all the west end was
left waste, so that if the wild tribes should land on it, they
might come and go, and hurt no one. The old house was to
be the Chief's, with all its woods, which now spread out as far
as the creek, while the south end was for the white men and
their wives; and as for the poor red men whose boats we had
burnt, they had the range of the wild part of the isle.
It struck me that there was one gift which I had not thought
of, and that was the book of God's Word, which I knew would
give them fresh strength for their work, and help them to bear
the ills of life. So I bade them all come round me, and as I
took up this book of books I said, "Prize it and lay it to your
hearts I for there are words in it which come from the lips of
Christ our Lord, words which He speaks to us in love, to win
us to Him. Till now you have had no such book on the isle.
No doubt these rich plains, these crops, these bright waves
that wash the shores which close you in, all prove to you that
there is a Great God, a God of Love; yet these stop short when
they tell us of God's skill and God's love, they leave us in the
dark as to how we can save our souls. But this book tells us
of a world to come, a bright world of love and peace—and the
way to gain it."
Now that I had been on the isle a month, on the fifth of May
I once more set sail with my good Friday, and they all told me
that they should stay there till I came to fetch them.
I gave one long look at them from the deck, and then hid
my face in my hands.
A FIGHT WITH WILD MEN. 83
When we had been out three days, though the sea was
smooth and calm, I saw it look quite black at one point, and
heard one of the crew give a cry of " Land!" As I knew there
was no coast near, I could not tell what to make of this, so I
sent the mate to the mast head, to find out with his glass what
it was. He came down with the bad news that it was a fleet
of scores and scores of small boats, full of wild men who came
on fast with fierce looks at us.
As soon as they drew near, I gave the word to furl all sail
and stop the ship, and as I knew that the worst thing these
men could do was to set us on fire, I had the boats out, and
made fast one of them at the head, and one at the stern.
In this way, we lay by for the foe, and in a short time they
came up with us, and, as I thought, meant to close us in. At
first they were struck with awe at the size of the ship, but they
soon came so near to us, that our crew told them by signs with
their hands to keep back, and this, though we did not mean it,
brought on a fight with them. They shot a cloud of darts at
our boats, which our men kept off with boards for shields.
We did not fire at them, yet in half an hour they went back
out to sea, and then came straight at us once more.
I bade my men get out the guns, and keep close, so as to be
safe from their darts if they should shoot, and I then sent
Friday on deck to call out to the wild men in their own tongue,
and ask what they meant to do. It may be that they did not
know what he said, but as soon as he spoke to them, I heard
him cry out that they would shoot. This was too true, for they
let fly a thick cloud of shafts, and to my great grief, Friday fell
dead. There was no one else in sight, and he was shot with
11- -2
three darts, three more of which fell quite near him. I was so
mad with rage, that I should have been quite glad to sink all
their boats, so I let the men load five guns with small shot,
and five with large, and we gave them such a fierce fire as they
had not seen in all their lives.
Then a strange scene met our eyes, and no words can tell
the dread and fear that came on them all; for most of their
boats, which were small, were split and sunk—three or four by
one shot. The rest fled as fast as their oars would take them.
Our boat took up one poor man who swam for his life, but
his speech was so strange to us, that we could have learnt as
much from the sound of a horn. At first he would not eat or
speak, and we had fears least he would pine to death, so to cure
him we took him out in the boat and threw him in the sea,
and told him by signs that if he would not speak or eat, we
would not save his life. He swam round and round the boat,
and at last made signs that he would do as we told him, so we
took him in.
When we had taught him to say a few words, he told us
that his tribe and four more had come out with their kings to
have a great fight.
"But what," said I, "made them come up to us?" At which
he said, "To make you see great fight!"
So it was for this that poor Friday fell, he who for long years
had been so good and true to me! My heart sank with grief.
We wound him in a shroud and let him down to his grave in
the sea. And now, with deep grief, I must take my leave of
him.
We went on with a fair wind to All Saints Bay, and here I
THE ISLE LEFT FOR THE LAST TIME.
85
found the sloop I had brought with me from home, which I
meant to send to my isle with men and stores, when I had
learnt how things stood there.
As one of my crew felt a strong wish to go back to the isle

DEATH OF FRIDAY.
m it, I said he should by all means, and I gave him the red
man whom we had on board, for his slave. I found too that a
man who was in fear of the Church of Spain would be glad to
be safe there with his wife and two girls; so I put them on
board the sloop, and I sent with them three milch cows, five
calves, a horse, four colts, and a score of pigs, all of which, as
I heard, went safe and sound. I have now no more to say of
my isle, as I had left it for the last time. But the rest of my
liie was spent for the most part in lands quite as far from home.
From the Bay of All Saints we went strait to the Cape of Good
Hope. Here I made up my mind to part with the ship in
which I had come from the isle, and to stay on land.
I soon made friends with some men from France, and two
Jews who had come out to the Cape to trade. I found that
some goods which I had brought with me from home, were
worth a great deal, and I made a large sum by the sale of them,
which I laid out in gems, as they took up so small a space.
When we had been at the Cape of Good Hope nine months,
we thought that the best thing we could do was to hire a ship,
and sail to the Spice Isles to buy cloves; so we got a ship and
men to work her, and set out. We went from port to port, to
and fro, bought and sold our goods, and spent from first to
last, six years in this part of the world.
At length we thought we would go and seek new scenes, and
by-and-bye we fell in with a strange set of men, as you who
read this tale will say when you look at the print in front of
this page.
When we had gone on shore we bought a large house built
with canes, which had a high fence of the same round it, to
keep off thieves, of whom it seems there are not a few in that
land. The name of the town was Ching, and we found that
the fair or mart, which was held there once a year, would not
take place for three or four months, so we sent our ship back to
the Cape, as we meant to stay in this part of the world for
some time, and go from place to place to look round us, and then
come back to the fair at Ching.
THE GREAT FAIR AT CHING. 87
We first went to a town which it was well worth our while
to see; it was quite in the heart of the land, and was built with
straight streets which ran in cross lines.
But I must say, when I came home to the place of my birth,
I was much struck to hear my friends say such fine things of
the wealth and trade of this part of the world; for I found

A GREAT MAN AT CHING.
that the men were a mere herd of mean slaves, who could boast
of but few arts or works of skill, and that their ways were
well nigh as rough as those of the red men whom I had left on
my isle.
What is their trade to ours, or that of France and Spain?
What are their ports, with a few junks and barks, to our grand
fleets? One of our large ships of war would sink all their
craft, one line of French troops would beat all their horse, and
the same may be said of their ports, which would not stand for
one month such a siege as we could bring to bear on them. In
three weeks' time we came to their chief town, where we laid in
a large stock of tea, fans, shawls, trays, and raw silk, which we
put on the backs of our mules, and set out for the North.
We had with us some Scots who had come out to trade here,
and had great wealth.
As we knew that we should run all kinds of risks on our way,
we took a strong force with us, to keep off the wild hordes who
rove from place to place all through the land. We had five
guides, and all our coin was, put in one purse to buy food on the
way, and to pay the men who took charge of us.
One of us we chose for our chief, to take the lead in case we
should have to fight for our lives; and when that time came
we found that we had no small need of his skill.
On each side of the road we saw men who were at work on
cups, bowls, and jars, of all shapes that could be thought of,
which they made out of a fine clay; and this is the ware that
has so wide a fame, and is the chief trade in this part of the
world.
One thing the guide said he would show me, which could be
seen no where else (and this, in good sooth, I could not sneer
at, as I had done at most of the things I had seen here), for it
was to be a house all built with the same kind of ware as the
plates and cups that we use are made of, but much more choice.
"How big is this house?" said I; "can we take it on the mule's
back?" "On the mule's back!" said the guide; "why, two
score men live in it." He then took me to see this strange sight,
and it was in truth a large house, built with laths, on which
were hung tiles of the best ware that can be made out of clay.
It had a bright glaze on it, which shone in the sun like glass.
Down the sides of the house were leaves and scrolls, drawn
A HOUSE BUILT OF WARE. 89
with blue paint; the walls of the rooms were made of small
tiles in all shades of red, blue, and green, with here and there
some gold on them, in rude forms it is true, but done in good
taste; and as the same kind of earth was made use of to join
the tiles, you could not see where they met. The floors of all
the rooms were of the same kind of ware, and so was the roof;
but that was quite black to keep off the heat of the sun's rays.
If I had had more time to spare, I should have been glad to
see more of this strange place, for there were ponds for the fish,
as well as walks, courts, and yards, all of which were made in
the same way.
This odd sight kept me from my friends for two hours, and
when I came up to them, I paid a fine to our Chief, as he and
all the rest had had to wait for me so long; for we ran a great
risk if we did not keep close to the rest.
In two days' time we came to the Great Wall, which was
built as a fort to guard the land from the wild tribes that
roam at large through the vast plains to the west. It runs the
whole length of the land, and turns, and winds, and is so high
that it was thought no foe could climb it, or, if they did, no wall
could stop them.
Our Chief gave some of us leave to go out and hunt, as they
call it; but what was it but to hunt sheep I These sheep, as
it fell out, were not such bad sport, for they are wild and swift
of foot; they go in large flocks, and, like true sheep, keep close
when they fly.
In this hunt, we met with some of the wild hordes I spoke
of, who rove from place to place in gangs, to rob and kill all
they fall in with. They know no true mode of war or skill in
fight, their arms are not good, and, as to their steeds, they are
but poor lean beasts, and by no means fit for hard work.
As soon as these men saw us, they blew some notes on a
kind of horn, the sound of which was quite new to me. We
thought it must be to call their friends round them, and so it
was, for in a short time a fresh troop of the same size came to

A WILD CHARGE.
join them, and they were all, as far as we could judge, a mile
off. As soon as one of the Scots who was with us heard the
horn, he said we must lose no time, but draw up in line, and
charge them at once. We told him we would all fight the
rogues, if he would take the lead.
They stood like a mere crowd, drawn up in no line, and
cast a wild gaze at us. But when they saw us come at them
they let fly their darts, which, though their aim was true, fell
short of us. We made a halt to fire, then rode at full speed
and fell on them sword in hand, led by the bold Scot.
9i
As soon as we came up they fled right and left; but three of
them, each of whom had a short sword, made a stand, and did
all they could to call the rest back. Our Scot rode close up
to them, and with the stock of his gun threw one from his

HOW THEY DRIVE IN THE NORTH.
horse, shot the next, and the third ran off; and this put an end
to the fight. All that we lost were the sheep we had in chase,
for not a man was hurt.
Thus we went on from place to place, and at length made our
way to the chief town of the North Seas, just a year and a half
from the time when we left Ching.
At last I took ship, and set sail for the land of my birth,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
which I had left this time for ten years, nine months, and
three days.
And now I must bring this tale of my life to a close; while
at the age of three score years and twelve, I feel that the day
is at hand when I must pray to go forth on that sea of peace
and love, which has no waves or shores but those of bliss
which knows no end.

THE END.
