 
£& ' :-- ..&:*;> .#.*
 
''4#
 
A. &T. Camp, Binders.
Hubbard
inas. Voy.
 
THE LIFE
AND Sl'KPKlSlNCt ADVJENTUIUIS
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF i'OMK, MARINUH:
WITH,
AN ACCOUNT OF
IMS TKAVEI/S KOtNl) THREE PARTS OF THE 0LOB£.
WlUTfEM BY ill'MSELf,
 
j&tirtoigp* ISlttfOtt
LONDON:
PKINTK1> ¥t)W F* f, *% »L IUVINGTOK, No* 61?, ST* PAL'LVI Clil-iUlH
YARD, A»M) No. 3, WATERLOO PLACE, PALL MILL,
B«tf)Jt>,£f,LB}« To 1 HE UH'JE'l Y FOR rilOMOTtSti i HRtSTIAX I^OWIEDCE,
IV PREFACE.
*
The Editor believes the thing to be a just
history of fact; neither is there any appearance
of fiction in it. However this may be, (for all
such things are disputed,) he is of opinion that
the improvemeht of it, is^vckl tb the diversion as
to the instruction of the Reader, will be the same;
and as such, he thiriKs; without farther compli-
ment to the world, he does them a great service
in the publication.  — <*- _ j
1 /.7
;; »./•;.*
- <v .
iv -,-<.
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
o. f , ...
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
t WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good
•f family, though not of that country, my father being a
foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull. He got a good
estate by merchandize* ahd> leaving off his trade, lived after-
wards at York 5 from whence he had married my, mother,
whose relations were named Robinson, a very good family in
that country, and from whom I wds called Robinson Kreutz-
naer; but, by the usual corruption of words in England,
we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name,
Crusoe; and so^my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers,, one of whom was liedtenant-
Colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What be-
came of my second brother, I never knew, any more than my
father and mother did know what was become of me.
-Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,
toy head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts*
My father; who Was very ancient, had giyen me a competent
share of learning, as far as hbuse-educatjon and a country fee-
school generally go, and designed.me for the law -, but I would
be satisfied with nothing but'going to sea: and my inclination
to' this led me sd strongly against the will, nay> the commands
voi,. 1. B •*'.-:
2 ADVENTURES OF
of my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of
my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be some-
thing fatal in that propension of nature, tending directly to the
life of misery which was to befall me»
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and ex*
cellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
fined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me
upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more than a
mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving his house, and
my native country, where I might be well introduced, and
had a prospect oif raising my fortune by application and in-
dustry i with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
for men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of aspiring,
^ superior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad upon adven-
tures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in
undertakings of a nature out'of the common road 5 that these
things were all either too far above me, or too far below me $
that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper station of low life, which he had found, by long expe-
rience, was the best state in the world, the most suited to
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships,
the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition and envy of
the upper part of mankind: he told me, I might judge of the
happiness of this state by one tiling, viz, that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being born
to great things, and wished they had been placed in the middle
of two extremes, between the mean and the great; that the,
wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of
true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty and
riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part
of mankind 3 but that the middle station had the fewest dis-
asters, and was not exposed- to so many vicissitudes as. the
higher or lower part-of mankind: nay, they were not subjected
tp so many distempers and uneasinesses,"either of body or
mjnd> as those were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and ex-
travagancies, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of neces-
saries, and mean andinsufficient diet, on theother^hand^'brjiig
4iSsernper(s upon themselves by the natural consequences cof
their way of living j that the middle station of life was qalcu-
lated forall kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments j that
peace arid plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune;
that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were, the bless-
ings attending the middle station of life, i that this way men
Went silently and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of
the head, not sold to the life-of slavery for daily bread, or
harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the souLof
peace, and the body of rest $ not enraged with the passion of
envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great things 5 but,
in easy circurristances, sliding gently through the world, and
sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter 3 feeling
^ that they are happjr, and learning, by every day's experience,
to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate majmer, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate
myself into miseries which, nature, and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was under
no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well, for
me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life
.which he had been just recommending to me; and that if I
was hot very easy and happy in the world, it must be my
mere fate or fault that must hinder it; and that he should have
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in
warning me against measures which he knew would be to my
hurt: In a word, that as he would do very kind tilings for
me^if I would stay and settle, at home, as he directed, so he
Would- not have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me
any .encouragement to go away; and, to close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used
the* same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the
Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he was killed j
and though, he said,(he would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me 5 and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, w^en there might
be nope to assist in my .recovery. «
I observed, in t&s lasj part of his discourse, which was
tfuly prophetic, though, 1 suppose, my father did not loiow it
to be so himself 5, I say, I observed the tears run down his
&ce very p}entifu^y^es]^cially when he.spokej>f my.brother
Who was killed -, and mat, when he spoke of my having leisure
to repent, and nonet6 assist me, be was sd moved, that he
broke off the' discourse, and told me his heart was so" full, he
could say no more to me.'
I was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to' settle at home, according 'to my
father's desire. But, alas! a few days wore it all off: and, in
short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities, in
a few weeks after X resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act so hastily, neither, as my first heat of
resolution prompted) but I took my mother, at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her
that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world,
that I should never settle to any thing with resolution enough
to go through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that 1 was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a
trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I
should never serve out my time, and I should certainly run
away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea;
and if she would speak to my father to let- me make but one
voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I .
would go no more; and I would promise, by a double dili-
gence, to recover the time I had lost. ».t-
This put my mother into a great passion: she told me she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such a subject; that he knew too well what was my inter-
est to give his consent to any'thing so much for my hurt$ and
that she wondered how I could think of any such thing, after
such a discourse as I had from my father, and such kind and
tender expression's as she knew my father had used to me:
and that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help
for me; but I might depend I should never have their consent
to it: that for her part, she would not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say,<K that my
mother was willing when my father was not."
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet> as
I have heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him)
and that my father, after shewing a great concern at it, said to
her with a sigh,, " That boy might be happy, if he would stay
at home';'but, if he goes abroad^ he will be the'most mi-
serable wretch that ever was born; I can give no consent to it.'*
It )vas riot till almost a year after this'that I broke loose;
though in the rnean timp I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulat-
ing with my father and mother about their being so positively
determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted
meto. But, being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement at that
time, and one of mycompanions then going/ to London by sea
»n Ins father's ship, and prompting me to go with them by the
common allurement of seafaring men, viz. " that it should cost
me nothing for ^ passage>" j consuite(i neither father nor
rnotner aQ3r more> nor so much as sent them word of it; but
Jen them to hear of, it as they might, without asking God's
blessing, or my father's, without any consideration of xircum*
nCe\°r consecluences> and in an ill hour, God knows.
On the 1 st of September 1651,1 went on board a ship bound
for London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I
peheve, began earlier, or continued longer, than mine. The
ship had no sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind
began to blow, and the waves to rise, in a most frightful manner}
^w J^r ne^erDeen^t sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sicx m body and terrified in mind > I began now seripusly to
reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by-the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly leaving my fathers
house, and abandoning ray duty. All the good counsel of my
parents, my father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came
now fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which was not
yet come to the pitch of hardiness to which it has been since,
reproached me with the contempt of advice* and; the breach of
my ditfy to God and my father.
i. All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though,nodiing like
wjiat I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few
«ay$ aftei 3 but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who
was but a young sailor, and had never known any thing of the
flatter, I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and
JWevery time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough
n°Jlow of the sea, we should never rise more; and in this
3f 0li j °^ mmd> * *nac*e manv vows an(* ^solutions, that if it
 
would tajte his advice, and never run myself into such mi-
series as the;se any more, Now \ saw1 plainly the goodness, of
his observationsaboutthe middle station of life \ how easy, hoW
comfortable Jie had Jived all' his days, and never had been ex-
posed, to tempests at sea or troubles on shore,; and I resolved
that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home-to, ray
father.
These wise,and sober thoughts continued, during the storm,
and indeed some time after $ but the next day, as~the wind was
abated, and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured, to it.
However, I was very grave that day, being also a little sea-
sick still: but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind
was quite over, and a charming fine evening followed; the sun
went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining
upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that I
ever saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was
so rough >and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and
pleasant in a little time after.
And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me,
and said, "Well, Bob/' clapping me on the shoulder, ft how
do you do after it? I warrant; you were frightened, waVt yoo,
last night, when it blew but a capfull of wind r"—€i A cap-
full, do you call it?" said I; "'twas a terrible storm.**—" A
storm, you fool T1 replies he, "do you call that a storm*?
"Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-
room, arid we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that:
you are but^a fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a
bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that. D'ye see what
charming weather 'tis now V* To make short this sad part of
my story, we went the way of all sailors; the punch was
made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections
upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
In a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface
and settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions
of being swallowed up by the sea forgotten, and the current
of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and
promises 1 had made in my distress. I found, indeed, some
interval^ of reflection; and serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again sqmetimesj but I shook jdiem off,
and roused myself from them, as.it were from a distemper,
and, applying myself to drink and corrmany, soon .mastered the
return of those fjts^fqr so J called them $ and I had in five or
six -days got as complete a victory over conscience as. any young
fellow, that resolved not to be troubled with it, could desire.
But I was to have another trial for it still j and Providence,-as
in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse • for if I would not take this for a deliverance,
the next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened
wretch among us would confess both the danger and the mercy
Of. The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yarmouth
roads; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm,
we had-made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, viz, at south-west, for seven or eight days,
during which time a great man;' ships from Newcastle came
into the same roads, as the commoi? harbour wnCTe the ships
might wait for a wind for the River. We had not, h^wev,er*
rid here so long, and should have tided uA^ the river, but Tv^
the wind blew too fresh j and after we hacJ lain four or live4'
days, blew very hard. However, the roads beuig reckoned as
good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least
apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth,
after the manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morr>
ing, the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to
strike our topmasts, and make every thing snug and close, that
the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went
very high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
several seas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor had
come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-
anchor; so that we rodq with two anchors a-head, and the
cables-Veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed j and now I be-
gan to see terror and amazement in the faces of even the sea-
men themselves. The master was vigilant in the business
of preserving the ship$ but, as he Went in and out of his cabin
by me, I could hear him softly say to himself several times,
"Lord, be merciful to us \ we shall be all lost; we shall be
allundone P and the like. During these first hurries \ was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cannot describe my temper. I could ill re-assume the first peni-
tence, which I had so apparently trampled upon, and hardened
myself against $T thought that- the bitterness of death had been
past,, and.thatnthia would be nothing too, like the-first: but
when the master ^himself came by me, as I said just now, and
said we should be'all* tost; I was dreadfully frightened. I got
up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sightl
never saw $ the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. When I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress around us,- two ships, that rid
near us/we found had cut their masts by the board, being
deeply laden; and our men cried out that a ship, which rid
about a mile a-head of us, was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads to
sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The
light shtys fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea;
but two or three of. them drove, and came close by us, run-
ning away, with only their spritea'ds out, before the wind. To-
ward evening, the mafe and boatswain begged the master of
our ship to let'them cut away the foremast, which he was very
loth to do; but the bqatswain protesting to him, that if he did
no* the ship would founder, he Consented $ and when they
had cut away the?'foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and
shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut it away also,
and make a clear deck.
Anyone may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this,'who was but a young sailor, and who had.been in such a
fright before at but a little. But if I can'express^at this dis-
tance, the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in ten*
fold more horror of mind upon account of my former convic-
tions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions J
had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itSelf 5 and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet $ the storm continued with such fury, that
the se;jmen themselves acknowledged they had never known a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and so
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried
out, she would founder. It was my advantage, in one respect,^
that I did not know what they meant by (( founder/' till I in-
quired. A However, the storm was so violent, that I saw, what
is not'often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others,
more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, arid expecting
every moment the ship would go to the bottom. In the
middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses, one*
of the men, that had been down on purpose to, see, cried put^
<f we had sprung a leak j'1 another said, "there was four feet
water in the hold." , Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that very word, my heart, as I thought, died within mej
and I fell backwards upon the side of rny bed, where I sat in
the. cabin,. , However, the men roused mer and told me,
'" that I/V who was able to do nothing before, "was as. well
able to, pump as another:". at which 1-stirred up and went to
the pump, and'worked very heartily. While this was 4o*mg,
the imager seeing some light colliers who, not able to ride
ouUhe storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, au^l
would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun, as a signal
of distress.. I,, who knew nothing what that meant, was ,so
surprised, that I thought die ship had broke, or some dreadful
thing had happened. In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell
down in a swoon. As tins was a time when every body had
his own,life to think of, no one minded me, or wSiat was be-
come of me; but another man stept up to the pump, and
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had
"been dead j and it was a great while before I came to my-
self. >,
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it
Was apparent that the ship would founder \ and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet as it-was not possible she.
could swim tiU we/might run into a port, so the master con-
tinued firing guns for help j and a light ship, who had rid it
out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was
with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was im-
possible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the
ship's side j till at last the men rowing very heartily, and ven-
turing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over
the, stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it.out a great:
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of,
and we hauled them close under our stern, and got allinto their
boat. It was to no purpose for them ,or us, after we were in
the boat, to think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed
to let her drive, and only to pull J)er in towards shore if s
much as we could 5 and our master promised them, that if
the boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good to
their master; so partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat
went away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almpst
aS far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
our ship when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the
flrst timei what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea., I
iriust acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to 190k up when the sea-
•roen told me,/'she was sinking3" for, from that moment
they 'rather put me into the boat, than that I might: be said to
go In.' My heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly
B2
with fright, partly'with horror" of mind, and the thoughts of
what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could se£ (when,
our boat mounting the Waves, we were able to see the shore)
a great many people running along the strand, to assist us
when we should'come near: but we made slow way towards
the shore $ nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the
light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward,
towards Cromer, and bo the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much
difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot
to Yarmouth 5 where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the particular merchants and
owners of ships j and had money given us sufficient to carry us
either to London or back to Hull, as we thought Jit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
have gone home, I had been happy; and my father, an em-
blem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the
fatted calf for me; for, hearing the ship I went in wak cast
away in Yarmouth roads, it was a great while before he had
any assurance that I was not drowned.'
But my ill fate pushed me on with an obstinacy that nothing
could resist j and though I had several times loud calls'from
my reason, andrhy more composed judgement,' to go home,
yet I had no1 power to do it.—^1 know not what to call this,
rior will I urge that it is a secret, overruling decree, that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction,
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with
our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed,
unavoidable ^misery attending, and which it was impossible for
me to escape, could have pushed me forward against the:calm
reasonings and persuasions of my mqst retired thoughts; and
against two such visible instruction's as I had met with in my
iirst attempt. {
My comrade, who had helped to harden one befbne, andwlio
Was the master's son, was now^less&rward than I rvtrYe' first
time be spoftfe torne after we were at Yarmouth,lwhjch yrks
not till two or three ?daysA for we were separated ih.the* tdwn
to 'several .quarters7 I say, the'firit time lie sawrinte;' it
appeared his tone was altered, and,1 looking very melartcholy,
and shaking Ins head, -asked ,me how I'did: telling his lather
who J was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
&rfW^K.lP-8ftArtheral?^id,...Hisj&fhw^ufping: ta»mei with
a grave and, concerned tone, "Young<man," says he, '*y.ou
ouglft;-neyprtcvgo.to sea anvmorej you-o.ughtto.take thtefor
a-$3in and visible.token,, thatyou are* not to be a.seafaring
m-2i1/> "7*' W%> Sir?" saitiI 5 "willyou go to sea no more ?"~
"Ah?t is another case," said-he 5 "it is my calling* and therer
tore .my.cjuty j but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see
yfyQ a* ^ste Heaven has .given you of what you are to expect
u you persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on your account,
like Jonah j^ the ship of Tarshish.—Pray," continues he,
"what are .you, and on what account did you go to- sea?"
Upon that I told him some of my story; at the end of which
he burst out with a strange kind of passion. "What had 1
done,1' said he, " that such an unhappy wretch should come
into my ship.! j would not set my foot in die same ship with
thee:again for a thousand pounds." This indeed was, as I said.,
an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense
of,his, loss, an<J was farther than he could have authority to go.
-—However, jie afterwards talked very gravely to me; ex-
horted n\e tq.goiback/to^my.faaier, and not tempt Providence
to^rny xuinj told me, I might see a visible hand pf Heaven
against me j "and, young man," said he, « depend upon it,
if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with
nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your father's
words are fulfilled upon you."
W(e parted ,$0011 after, for I made him little answer, and I
saw him no more j which, way he went, I know not: as-for
me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
pjr,- land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles
With myself what course,of life I should take, and whether
^kpujd go; home or go to sea. As to going, home, shame-
opposed tjSe best potions that offered to my thoughts j and it
* injrned;iately occurred to me how I-should be laughedvat among
.$? R^gh^ours, arid should be ashamed tosee, not my father
a^d^Qther only^ but evea every body else*. From:whence I
have often since observed, how incongruous and irrational the
^Wn temper^ of mankind is,? especially of .youth, to >thatr
*?£?so.n!whjch: ought to guu}e*them in suehcases* vi^ that they *.
**£? ^9,t,ashame4 to sin, ano\ yet are ashamed to repent\ not?
tasl^am^ pf» the action, for, which they t ought \ justly \ to be
,esteemed fppjsj but,are asliamed of .the.returning, whiehrOuly>
,?fil'ffi?H?'fre*n be^esteemed.wise men., , .
vjfilR^fWs.stateiQf life, hbSvever, \ remained some -time, tun-
fi?^in ^h^.t^ea^^Svto, take^and what£ourse*0£life*taJea&.
An irresistible reluctance continued to, going home % and as I
stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had,been in
wore ofFj and,- as that abated, the little motion I had in tny:
desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and. looked out for a voyage. That evil in-
fluence which carried me .first away from my father's house,
that hurried me< into the wild and indigested notion of raising.
my fortune, and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all ,good advice, and to the en-
treaties, and even the commands of my father j I say, the^same
influence; whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of
all enterprizes to my view; and I went on board a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa -, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it,
a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures I
did not sjiip myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might in^
deed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the same
time, I had learned the duty and office of a foremast-man, T
and in time might have qualified myself for a* mate or lieu-
tenant, if not a master: But as it was always my fate to choose,
for the worse, so I did here $ for having money in my pocket,
and good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board
in the habit of a gentleman $ and sal neither had any business
in the ship, or learned to do any. It was my lot, first of all,
to fall into pretty good company in London; which does not;
always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as I
then was; the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some snare
for them very early. But it was not so with me: J first fell;
acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been on the
coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good success there*,
was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancy to my conver-
sation, which wa& not at all disagreeable at that time, and hear->
ing me say "I had a mind to see the world/' told me, that if
I would go the voyage with him, I should be at no expence y.
I should be his mess-mate and his companion -, and if I could:
carry any thing with me, I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade wpuld admit f and perhaps I might meet with*7
some encouragement. I embraced the offer, and,, entering -.
into a strict friendship with- this captain, who was an honest-
and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small: adventure with me \ which, by the disinterested
honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very consider-1
ably; for I carried about 40/. in such toys and trifles as the -
captain directed me to buy. This 40/, 1 had mustered toge*
thef by the'assistance of some of my relations whom I corre-
sponded with; and who, I believe, gofcmy father, or at least my
mother,-to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.
This^was the only voyage which I may say was successful in
all' my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain 5 under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rufes of na-
vigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's course,
take ah observation, and, in short, to understand some tilings
that were needful to be understood by a sailor: for as he
took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in a
word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant: for I
brought home 5 lb. 9 oz. of gold-dust for my adventure, which
yielded me in London, at my return, almost 300/. and this
filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin.' Yet even in this voyage I had my mis-
fortunes too 5 particularly,'that I was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate'? otir principal trading being upon the coast, from the
latitude of lVdegrees north, even to the Line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved
to go the same voyage again; and I embarked in the same
vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and
had now got the command of the ship. This was the urr-
hhppiest voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
carry quite lOO/. of my new-gained wealth, so that I had 200/.
left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was
very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes, in-this
voyage: arid the first was this, viz.—our ship, making her
coiirse towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised, in the grey of
the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase to
us with all the Sail she could make. We crowded also as
niuch canvas us our yards would spread,, or our masts carry,
to get clear; but'finding the pirate gained upon us, and
woiiy certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared
tolfightV our Ship having 12 guns,- arid the rogue 18. About
three in the afternoon he came-up with us j and bringing to,
by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern, £s he'intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made
him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in
also his small shot from near 200 men which lie had on board*
liowever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close* He prepared to.attack us again, and we todefend our-
-selves j hut laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered 60 men upon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sails and' rigging. We plyed
them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests,- and such
likei and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled,
and three of qur men killed and eight wounded, we were
obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a
port belonging to the Moors,
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first 1 ap.*
prehended $ nor was 1 carried up the country to the emperor's
court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the
captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At this
surprising change of my circumstances, from,a merchant to a
miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I
looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, «« that
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me 5" which
I thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that it could
not be worse 5 that now the liand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I ,was undone, without redemption. 'But, alas! this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of this-story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hq$e$ he would take me with hinvwhen he
went to sea again, believing that it would, some time or other,
be his fate to be taken by a Spanish t>r Portuguese man of war,
and that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of
mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left
me on shore, to look after his little garden, and do the common
drudgery of slaves about his house $ and when he came home
again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look
after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational; for I 'had jiobody to communicate it to that
would embark with me y no. fellpw-slave, ,116 Englishman,
Irishman, or. Scotchman there hut myself 5 so that for-two
'years, though Ioften.pfeased myself with the imagination, yejt
I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in.
practice. *
. Aftgr about two yearsa an odd circumstance presented itself,
which p\it the old thought of making some, attempt for my
liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home longer
than u$ua}, without fitting put his ship, which, as. I heard,
was, for want of money, he used constantly, once pr twice a
week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to- take the
ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a fishing;, and as he
Always, took me and a young Moresco with him to row the
boat, we, made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in,
catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he would send me with
a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as
they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it j and rowing, we
knew not whither, or which way, we laboured all day and all
the next night, and when the morning came, we found we had
pulled off to sea,, instead of pulling in for the shore, and that
we Were rat, leasj; two leagues from the shore: However, we
got well in again, though with a great deal of labour, and some
danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh iri the morn-
ing 5 but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future 5 and having lying by him
the long-boat of our English ship he had taken,t ljg resolved he
would not go a fishing any more without a compass, and some
provision 5 so he ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was,an
English slave, tp build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand tysr
bind it, to steer and hauj, home the, main-sheet^ and room. be. 7
• fprefcna hand or two to stan,d and work the sails. She sailed
with what we call a shoulder of mutton, sail, anp! the booni
gibb'dfover the top of the cabin, which lay very ^mag and low,
And had hut room for him to lie, with aslayeor two, and a
^le t0 eat on>Wltn some smal*lockers t0 Put «l some .bottles
^ su.ch liquor as he thought fit to drink, and:particularly his
bread, rise* and coffee. , .;
t-^TWe went frequently out'Nvith this bpat a fishing, an4 35 I
fWas;most-.dexterous to catch fish for lurn, he never wentjyith-
outme$!i ,It happened, that he had appointed to go out jn lh*:s
^boati. either fpr pleasure pr for fisht with twq orlly-ee^ftlRprs
> .of jsome distinction in. that plac§, and fpr whom he{hadiPr°yWed
^extraordinarily, andihad therefpre sent op board $he boat,.oven-
night, a larger store, of provision than ordinary, and had,ordered
me to get ready three fusees, with powder and shot, which were
on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling1
as well as fishing.
I got all tilings ready as he directed, and waited the ne*t
morning with the boat washed clean, her ensign and pendants
out, and every thing to accommodate his guests : when, by and
by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his guests
had put off going, upon some business that fell out, and
ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with
the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his friends were
to sup at his house j and commanded, that as soon as I had
got some fish, I should bring it home to his house: all which
I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship
at my command \ and my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but for a Voyage $
though I knew hot, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer $ for any where, to get out of;that place, was my
way^  , 1. 
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to; speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board \ for
I told him we must not presume to eat of our patrori^ bread:
he said, that was true; «o he brought a large basket of rusk or
biscuit, of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the-
boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which
it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into th£ boat while the Moor was'
on shore, as if they had been there before for ouf-rriasteri \ -
Conveyed also a great lump of bees*-wax into the boat, which1
weighed above half a hundred-weight, with a parcel of twine^
or thread', a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wart, to make candles:
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into
a)so: his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or Moley •
so I trailed to him, "Moley/' said I, "our patron^ guns are
on bpard the. boat, can you not get a little powder and shot-?
tt may be we may kill some aicamies (fowls like our curlews)
for ourselves^, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the
ship.,,—",Yes," says he, "I'll bring some;" and'accordingly
he brought a great leather pouch, which held about a pound
und a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or fcft pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat: at the same time I found some powder of my master'a
in the greatcabin, with which I filled oho of the large bottles
in tlie case, which was almost empty, pouring what iyas in it
u?55)-an°tlier' an<* ftus furnished with every thing needful, 'we
saiIe4rout of the port .to fish. 'The castle,'which is at the
entrance of the port, knew, who we#were, and took np notice
of us i and, we vpere nof above a mile out of the port, before
we hauledrln our sail, and set us down to fish. The wind
h 7'- Sm N* Ni E- whlcl> was contrary t0 nV desire 5 for,
nad it bjpwn southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast
of Spain, and at last, reached to the bay of Cadiz: but my re-
solutions were/ blow which way it would, I would be gone
from the horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
. After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This will not do;
our master will not be thus served j we must stand farther
°f*-{ Hfi, thinking no harm, agreed y and being at the head
of the.boat, iset the sails j and as I had the helm, I run the
boat near a league farther, and then brought to, as if I would
fish, Then giying the boy the helmk I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and I took him by surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and togse^.him clear overboard into the
• sea. He rose immediately/tor "fie swam like a cork, and
called to me, begged to be taken in, and told me he would go alj
the >vorld over with me. He swam so strong after the boat,
that he would have reached me very quickly, there being but
little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching
one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and told him;
I;had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would, do
him none: "I?ut," said I, "you swim well enough to reach
the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your way
to shore, and I will do you no harm: but if you qome near
the boat, I will shoot you through the head $ for lam resolved
to-.haye my liberty/' So he turned himself about,, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached- it with
^se, for he-was an excellent swimmer.
, * I could have been content to have taken this Moor with trie
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust
him. When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they
called Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful
to me I will make you a great man j but if you will not stroke
your face to be true to me, (that is, swear by Mfahomet and
his.father's beard), I must throw you into the sea too." The
boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not mistrust him 5 and swore to be faithful to me, and go all
over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone towards the Strait's
mouth, (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do); for who would have supposed we
were sailing on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround us with
their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once go
on sKore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the
shore j and having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth
quiet sea, I made such sail, that I believe by the next day, at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I made the land, I could
not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king
.thereabout; for we*saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the
wind continuing fair, till I'had sailed in that mariner five days;
and then the wind shifting to the-southward, I concluded also
that if any of our vessels Were in chase of me, they also would
now give over : so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to
an anchor in the mouth of a little river; I knew not what or
where, neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river. I neither saw, or desired to see, any people; the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into tins
creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it
\yas dark, and discover the country: but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of We knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged
of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury,'* said I,
(( then I will not; but it may be we may see men by day,
who will be as bad to lis as those lions."•—" Then we may
give them the shoot-gun/' says Xury, laughing; tf make them
run way." Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us
slaves. However, 1 was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and
I gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer
him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it.
We dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night: I say,
still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast
creature's, (we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and
washing themselves, for the pleasure of cooling themselves;
and they made such hideous howliogs and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too j
but we were both more frightened when we heard one of
these mighty creatures swimming towards our bdat: we could
not see him, but we might hear him, by his blowing, to be a
monstrous, huge, and furious beast, Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so, for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to
me to weigh the anchor, and row away. "No/' says I',
<e Xury; we can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off
to sea: they cannot follow us far.'* I had no sooner said so,
but I'perceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars
length, which something surprised me; however, I immediately
stept to the cabin door, and, taking up my gun, fired at him;
upon which he immediately turned about, and swarn to the
shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon the
edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon the noise
or report of the gun j a thing, I beliere, those creatures had
never heard before. This convinced me there was no going on
shore for us in the night upon that coast: and how to venture-
on shore in the day, was another question too; for to have
fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as
to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers; at least, we-
were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore, some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the
boat: when and where to get it was the point. Xury said, if
I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would
find if there was any water, and bring some to hie. Tasked
him why he would go; why I should not go, and he stay
in the boat- The boy answered with so much -affection,
that he made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wM
nfans come, they eat me, you go way."—" Well, Xury," said/
I, ** we will both go; and if the wild mans come* we will kill
tljfeni'i they shall eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's <;ase of
bottles, whick I mentioned before j and we hauled in the boat
as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded to
shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearjng the
coming of canoes with savages down the river 5 but the boy,
seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled to it -7
and, by and by, I saw him come running toward me. I thought
he was pursued by some savage, or frightened by some wild
beast, and I therefore ran forwards to help him -, but when
I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare,
but different in colour, and longer legs' 5, however, we were
very glad of it, and it Y^as very good meat: but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards, that we need not take such pains
for water 5 for a little higher up the creek where we were, we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed
but a little way up 5 so we filled our jars, and, having a fire,
feasted on the hare we had killed 5 and prepared to go on our
way, having seen jio footsteps of any human creature in that
part of the country*
i.- As I had heen one voyage to this coast before,, I knew very
well that the islands'of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd
foknds also, lay not far from the coast. But as I had no in-
struments to take an observation, to fin^ what latitude we
were in ; and did not exactly know, or at least remember, what
latitude they wore in, I knew not where to look for thera, or;
when to stand off to sea towards them, otherwise 1 might now
have easily found some of these islands. But my hope was,
that if J stood along this coast till I came to the part where
the English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon
their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, the place where I now. was
must be-that country which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and unin-
habited, except by wild beasts $ the Negroes having abandoned
it, and gone farther south, for fear of the Moors, and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barren-
ness: and, indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious
numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures
which harbour there: so that.the Moors use it for their hunt-
ing only, where they go like an army, two or three thousand
men at a time 5 and, indeed, for near a hundred miles toge-
ther upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring
of wdd beasts by night. '; •
nf ~1C^ ?L twice> in the day time, I thought I saw die Pic
r™<i/en ',bfing die t0P of the mountain TenerifFe in the
rJZh- ??T ad a &reat mind t0 venture out, in hopes of
aln?n UiS thlther5 but having tried twice, I was forced in
litdl v <Jontrar>r winds i the sea also going too high for my
alonVth I5 S° l resolved t0Pursue my first design, and keep
lwH T'ft3! -im€S 1 Was obliSed t0 land for fresh water' afteF we
fnnJf P ce' and once> in Particular, being early in the
xSng,We came t0 an anchor under a little point of land
which was pretty high} and the tide beginning to flow, we lay
buii, to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
uian, it seems,, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me,
«LT f b.9t S° farther oiF the shore 5 for, says he,
lork f Jf° fr lu:f a dreadful monster on ^e side of that hiU
aL Af T *ep* J looked where he Panted; and saw a
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible, great lion, that
ay orr the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the
hill, that hung, as it were, over him. « Xury," says I, « you
tS !?£ ^ ^ m him'" Xui? l00ked lightened,and
said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth;" one mouthful he
meant. However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him.be
sun; and I took our biggest gun, which was almost musquet
nore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two slugs, and laid it down 5 then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the
nrst piece, to have shot him in the head 5 but he lay so, with
n» leg raised a little above hii nose, that the slugs hit his leg
Su» tknee> and broke the bones he started UP> growling-
at nrst, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then
ev^u1*1*011 three le£s> and ^ve the most hideous roar that
thiTi Adi* I was a little surPnsed that I had not hit him oil
an,,?ad * however, I took up the second piece immediately,
ana tnough he began to move off, fired again, and shot him in
uie nead, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but
mue noisfe, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart,
ana woukthave me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said
f: so ^ b°y jumped into the water, and taking a little gun
in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put tbemuzzle of the piece to his ear, and
snot nim in die head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game, indeed, to us, but it was no food y and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a
creature that was good for nothing to us. However* Xury
said he would have some of him 5 so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet: e< For what, Xury?" said
I. "Me cut off his head,'* said he\ However, Xury could
not cut off his head; but he cut off a foot, and brought it with
him, and it was a monstrous great one. I bethought myself,
however, that perhaps the skin of him might, one way or
other, be "of some value to us; and I resolved to take off his
skin, if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him ; l)ut
Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed, it took us both up the whole day; but
at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top
of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward continually,
for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into the
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My* design in
this', was to -make the river Gambia, or Senegal; that is to
say, any whereabout the Cape de Verd/where I was in hopes
to-meet-with some European ship5 and if I did not, I knew
not what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish among die negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to'Brasil,
or to the East Indies, made this Gape, or those islands: and,
in a word, 1 put the whole of my fortune upon this single
point, either that I must meet with some ship, or must perish.
When J had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited; and
in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us: we could also perceive they
were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined to
have gone on shore to them; bat Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, " No go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and I found
they run along the shore by me a good way. I observed they
had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a long,
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they would
throw them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a dis-
tance, but talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and
particularly made signs for -something to eat. They beckoned
to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat:
Upon this, I lowered the top of my sail, and layjby, and two of
them run up into the country; and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and
some corn, such as is the produce of their country > but we
neither knew what the one or the other was; however, We
were willing to accept it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute,, for I was not for venturing on shore to them,
and they were as much afraid of us: but they took a safe
way-for us all, for they brought it to the shore, and laid it
down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends: but an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury, from the mountains to-
wards the sea 5 whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or; whether* they <were in sport or in rage, we could not tell,
any xriorethan me could tell whether it was usual or strange;
but Ibelieveitwas^the latter, because, in the first place, those
ravenous creaturesseidom appear but in the night 5 and> in the
second place, we found the people terribly frightened, especially
the women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly
from them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures
ran directly into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall
upon any of the negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea,
and swam about, as if they had come for their diversion: at
'last, one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I
expected; but I lay ready for him, fox I had loaded my gun
with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others.
As soon as he,came fairly within .my reach, I fired, and shot
him directly in the head: immediately he sunk down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he
was struggling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately
made* to the shore; but between the wound, which was his
mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, be died just be-
fore he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with- the very
terror $ but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and.came to tbeshore, and began to search for
*he creature. I found him: toy Ms blood staining the water;
and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave
the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an
admirable degree; and the negroes held up their hands \VtlIi
admiration, to think what it was I had killed him with1.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at that dis-
tance, know what it was. I found quickly the negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me; which, when I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him; and though they had
no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they took off
his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could
have done with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provisions, which, though I did
not understand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning it
bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it filled. They called fmmediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a great vessel
made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they
set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my
jars, and filled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it wag,
and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea,
at about the distance of four or five leagues before me \ and the
sea being very calm, I kept a large offing, to make this point.
At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then 1
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that tins was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called, from thence, Cape
de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and
I could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should, be
taken with a gale of wind, I might neither reach one nor the
other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin, and sat me down* Xury having the helm j when, oaa
^f^n^boy cried out, « Master, master n shi|> witji a
W. t«uJ^the foolish, boy was. frightened out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs, be some of his master> ships sent to pursue
jW* when, I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
shir?" h °Ut °^the cabil)' and "nmediately saw, not only the
P but wl^t she was, viz. thatMt was a Portuguese ship,
But* h ^^ wa&t»0«n^to the coast of Guinea for negroes.-
v 'T fni observea* the course she steered, I was soon con-
vinced they were, bound .some, other way, and did not design
torcomeany nearer to, the.shore: upon which, I stretched out
*Q sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, -if.
vWith all the sail I could make, I found I should Dot be abte
to comenn their way, but that they would be gone by before
Iccould make any signal to. them: butafter I had crowded to
tiie utmost, and began to despair, they,, it seems, saw me, by
me-ihelp/of their perspective glasses,. and that it was some
iiuropean:boat^ chichi they supposed;, must belong to some,
ship that was lost; so'they shortened sail, to let mo come up.
hww encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensigri
oa:board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress,
and toed: a. gun, both which they saw-, for they told me they
saw ithe smoke, .though they did not hear the gun. Upon
these--signals, they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me $
and^m-aboutthree hours time I came up with them.
*"^ asked me what J wa<, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and m French, but I understxd none of them 5 but, at last,
a bcotchsailor, who was on board/called to me, and I answered
mmpand told him I was an Englishman, that I had made ray
<*cape<out of slavery from Jie Moors, at Saliee :, they then
oaae.me come on board, at i very kindly took me in. and aU
ttiy'godds. / . ,...''
Ml V11 inexPfessible joy to me, which any one will
a; fve,that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such
miserable', and almost L-jpeiess, condition as I was in; and h
retu !ftly offered ^11 * had to the captain-of the ship, as a
*r«i u T m? deliverance; but he generously told me,, he
would take ndthing from me, but that all I had should be de->
mered safe to me, -when I came to the'Brasils. f* For,"<says
1* i*j e Saved your life on no other terms t*ian 1 would
°* glad to be saved rcyself; and it may, one time or other, be.
™y Jot to be taken up in the same condition] ^Besides," said
/• when I carry you to theBrasils, so great a way frora
jour own country, i* I should, take from you what you have,
yppvwill be ^starved, there, and then I only take away tjiat life
5 have gi vpn, J>fa, no, Seignior Inglese,'' (Mr, Englishman),
says he \^ I,will;carry you thither in charity, and, these things
Vijiijelp ,to buy your subsistence there, and your passage horne
again:;..^, ., , ..j.. ., • , :., • , ... '; , ,
(,rAs be.was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in, the
.performance,.to,a tittle$ for lie ordered the seamen, that none
should*offer .to % touch any thing I had: then 'he took every
thing into his own possession, «,and,gave me back an exact; jar
ventdry of them, that I might have them, even so much,as my
three earthen jars.
As to my boat, itwas'a very good one -, and that he saw, and
told me he would;buy it of me for the,ship's use 5 and asked me
what I would have for it} J told him, he had been so gener-
ous, to me in every thing, thaM could not offer to ;rnake any
price of the boat, but lpft.it entirely to him: upon which, he
told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty
rpieces of eight for it. at Brasil; and when it camethe^e,, if any
•one offered to give more,, he would.make it up. r He offered
me also sixty pieces of.eight jnore* for my hoy Xury, whicn I
was loth to take \ not that I was not willing tolqt thjQ captain
have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor boy's liberty,
who had assisted; me flo faithfully in procuring my own. Etow-
^ver, when I let fcim knowv my reason, herowned it to be just,
and offered me this medium,- that; he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian:
•upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go£o him^I Jet
«the captain have.him. -*«-..
We. had a ^very good voyage to the Brasils, and arrived in #je
Bay de Todos Jos Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-
two days after,. 'And now J was once more delivered from, the
most miserable of all conditions of life; and what to do nosif.
with myself I was now to consider.
.The generous treatment the captain gave me, 1 can „,never
enough; remember; he would take nothing of me .for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats, for the leopard's skin,sand
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
•every thing! had in the ship to bepunctually delivered to me,}
and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me j such ?as,the
crise of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump o£
bees •-wax,—for I had made candles of the rest 2 in a word, I
made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my
cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brasils. ,
I had not been long here, before Lw?s recommended to »the
house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an mgenio,
as they call it, (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived
with hith soma time, und acquainted myself, by that meatis,
with the banner of planting and making of sugar: and seeing
how well the planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I
resolved, if I could get a license to settle there, I would turn
planter among them: endeavouring, in the mean time, ttffind out
some way to get my money, which I had left in tandoh, re-
mitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of
naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as
my money would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation
and seitterri'eilt; such a one as might be suitable to the stock
which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
'I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of Eng-
lish parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circum-
stances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his plan-
tation lay n&xt to mine, and we went on very sociably together.
My stock'was but low^ as well as his > and we rather planted
for food than ariy things else, for about two years. However,
we!*egan to increase, and our land began to come into order 5
so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each
of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the
year* to come': but we both wanted help; and now I found,
more than before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy
Xury. •
But; alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no
great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on: I had got into
an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly con-
trary' to >therlife ,1 delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good advice*, nay, I
was'coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of
low life, which my father advised me to before j arid which, if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at home,
aha1' never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done:
knd Iused often to say to myself, "I could have done this as
tVeH iri England/among my friends, as have gone five thousand
miles'off'to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilderness,
«rid at subh a distance as never to hear from any part of the
^orld that had the least knowledge of me.'*
In this manner, I used to look upon my condition with the
utrridst regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now and
*hen this neighbour; no work to be done, but by the labour
of my hands j and I used to say, I lived just like a man cast
away upon'some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But'how just has it been; and how should all mefl
reflect, that when they compare their present conditions with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the ex-
change, and be convinced of their former felicity by their ex- ,
perience: I say, how just has it been, that the truly solitary
life I reflected on> in an island of mere desolation, should be
my lot* who had so often unjustly compared it with the life
"which I then led, m which, had I continued, I had, in all pro-
bability, been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying
don4he plantation,-before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back 5 for the ship remained
there, in providing his lading, and preparing for his voyage,
near three months; when* telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere
advice: "Seignior Inglese/' says he, (for so he always called
me), " if you will give me letters, and a-procuration here fn
form to me, with orders to the person who has your money in
London, -to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I
•6hall direct, -and \\\ such goods as are proper- for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them* God willing* at1 my return:
t)ui, since human aftairs are all subject to changes and disasters,
I-wotild have you give orders for but one hundred pounds
sterling, which, you say, is-half ydur stock, and let thehazard
he run for the first j, so that.if it come safe, you'may orde*r the
a*e6t the same way; and, if it miscarry, you may have -the other
ialf to have recourse to for your supply." .;* » c
• This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly/ thdt
I -coUld not but be convinced it was the best course I could
take j so -I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman,
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
^Portuguese captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of alljny
adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the
^Portuguese captain* at sea* the humanity of his behaviour,* and
what condition I was now 4n, with all other necessary direc-
tions for my supply j and when this honest captain came; to
Lisbon/ he found means; by some of the English merchants
there, to send over, not the order only, but *a full account of
my story to a merchant at London, who represented it effec-
tually to her: whereupon, she not only delivered the mbney,
buyout of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a
v$ry handsome present for his humanity and charity tome,-
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in
BngUsh goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent them
at tl r -i at Lisbon> and he brought them all safe to me
'/* l-ne^WUs: among which, without my direction, (for I was
toPhfvUI)nlri my business t0 mink of them), ^ had taken care
mv i^i'e a,\SQ*ts Stools, iron work, and utensils, necessary for
plantation, and which were of great use to me. , , ,L
wnen this cargp arrived, I thought my fortune made, fori
c/nt -UrPu1Sed With &G *°y of k > and m7 Sood s^ward, tlie
vapiatn, had laid out the five pounds, which my friend had
sent mm as a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
:°ver a servant, under bond for six years' service, and would not
accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco,, which. I
would have him accept, being of my own produce..
IN either was this all: but my goods being all English manur
.^ctures, such as clothes, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
^luable and desirable in the. country, I found means to sell
.tnem to a yery great advantage;, so that I might say, I had
IS?*\t V nc °mr time? d?e value of mY first carg°; and was now
ipftmtely beyond tmy poor neighbour, I mean in the advance-
ment^ my plantation: ;ffor the first thing I did, 1 bought me
a Pfgrp slave, and an European servant also; I mean another,
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
Hut as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means
oi our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation 5 I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had dis-
poned of for necessaries among my neighbours j and these fifty
rolls, being each of above loo lb. were well cured, and laid
PJ.against,the return of the fleet from Lisbon: and, now inr
<fireas,ng;m business and in wealth, my head began to be full
fn/r<5eCtr and undertakings beyond my reach) such as are,
1 !• 'often the ruin of the best heads in business. Had I
continued m the station I was now in, I had room for all* me
^aPPy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father so
JU-nestJy recommended a quiet, retired life, and, which be hai
5P sensibly described the,middle-station of life:to be full of)
asr °tther things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful
fault m^ 0wn m*ser*es > and* particularly, to increase ray
«,. and, double the reflections upon myself, which in my
.re sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these mis-
carnages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to
wy toolish inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that
Jnshnalion, in contradiction to the clearest views of doing my-
e**good in a fair and.plain pursuit of those prospects, apd
those measures of life, which Nature and Providence concurred
to present me with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents,
so I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the
happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of
rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted j and thus
I cast myself down ag?in into the deepest gulph of human
misery that ever man fel» into, or perhaps could be consistent
with life, and a state of health in the world.
To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this
part of my story :—You may suppose, that having now lived
almost four years in the Brasils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and friend-
ship among my fellow planters, as well as among the merchants
at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my discourses
among them, I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading
with the negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on
the coast, for'trifles—such as beads, toys, knives, scissars,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like—not only gold dust, Guinea
grains, elephants' teeth, &c. but negroes, for the service of the
Brasils, in great numbers.
J They listened always very attentively to my discourses on
these heads, biit especially to that part which related to the
buying negroes; which was a trade, at that time', not on)y not
far entered into/ but, as far as it was, had been carried on by
the Assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal,
and engrossed from the public -, so that few negroes were
bought, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and
tola* me they had been musing very much upon Avhat I had
discoursed with them of the last night, and they came to friaka
a secret proposal to me: and, after enjoining me to secresy,
they told me that they had a mind to ffy put a ship to go to
Guinea^' that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as itwasfja
trade that could riot be carried on, because they could riot
^publicly sell the negroes when they came home, so they desired
to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their 'own plantations': and,
31
iti a wcard^thc question was/whether I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading.-part upon the coast of
Guinea I and they offered me that I should have an equal share
of the negroes, ..without providing any part of the stock.
This was. a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been
smade to anyone that had not a settlement and plantation of
his own to look after, which was in a fair way of coming tofce
very considerable, and with a good stock upon it.- But for me,
that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun, for three or four year* more, and to
have sent for the other hundred pounds from England 5 and
who, in that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds ster-
ling, and that increasing too 5 for me to think of such a voyage,
was the most preposterous thing that ever man, in such cir-
cumstances i * could be guilty of.
But I, that was bom to be, my own destroyer, could no more
reskt the offer,;thai* I could restrain my first rambling designs,
when my father^ go<jd counsels was lost upon me. In. a word,
I told them Ilwould'go with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and would dis-
pose of it to such as, I should direct, if I miscarried. This they
all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to jdo
so: and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects,. in case of my death 3 making the captain of the ship
that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir j but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my
will; one half of the produce being to himself, and the other
1 to be shipped to England. *
v>* In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and to keep up my plantation: had I used half as much pru-
dence to have looked into my own interest, and hare made a
judgement of what I ought to Have done and not td have done,
J had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an under-
taking, leaving all the probable views, of a tiirwiug circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea^attended with all its
\common hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had \o expect
particular misfortunes to myself. - ;• # ( '. «:
But I -was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the, dictates <# wry
;. fancy* rather than my reason: arid, accordingly, the $W|> beiriig
/fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things dahe'as'by
 agreement, by my partners in the** voyage, I went $n boanUn
-an^eyil hour again* the first of SepteipDer 1C50, bVmg $e
sarne day eight y$ars. that I went firoru my father and mother
at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority,, and the
fool to my own interest.
•. "The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to
the nprthward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over
* for "the African coast. When they came about ten or twelve
degrees, of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner
of their course in those days, we had very good weather, only
excessive hot all the way upon our own coast, till we came to
, the height of cape St. Augustino 5 from whence, keepjng
farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we
were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our
course N. E. by N. and leaying those isles on the east. In
. this course we passed the Line in about twelve days time, and
were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22 minutes northern
- Jatitude> when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite
out of our knowledge: it began from the south-east, came
-about to the north-west, and then settled in the north-east 5
t from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
r days together we could do nothing but drive, and, scudding
. away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury
. of, t}ie winds; directed -y and during these twelve days, I need
not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up\ nor, in-
deed, did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
, of our men died of the calenture, and one man and a boy
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating
a little, the master made an observation as well as he could,
and found that he was in about 1 i degrees north latitude, but
that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference west from
, cape St. Augustino; so that he found he was got upon the
coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brasil, beyond the river
Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoque, commonly
called the Great River j and began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of Brasil.
/ I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of
the searcoast of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee islands, and therefore re-
solved to stand away for Barbadoes; which, by keeping off to
sea, to avoid the in-draft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we might
easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days sail $ whereas
we c6uld not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa
without some assistance, both to our ship and ourselves.
^^tothis design, we changed our course, and steered away
JM. w. by W. in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for being in the latitude of 12 degrees 18 minutes,
a second storm came upon us, which carried its away with the
same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very
way of all human commerce, that bad all our lives been saved,
as to tlle sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured bj
savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our
men, early in the morning, cried out, Land! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in (he world we were, but the ship Struck upon
a sand, and in a moment, her rnotion being so stopped, the sea
broke oyer her in such a manner, that we expected we should
a*l ^av5 Peris%$r immediately; arid we were immediately
^ysp^fafo our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam
and sprayrof ;the sea. -
. }: f? ^^Vy'^^-fpXrg^V^P has "ot ^een in the tike con-
dition, tOjdescri^e or'cbn^e^ of men In sucR
circumstances: we tnew nothing where we were,' or upon *
what land It was we were driven, whether an island or the'
main, whether inhabited or not inhabited j and as the rage of
the wind:was still great, though rather less than at first/ we
c.puld not; so much as hope to have the sliip hold many minutes^
without' breaking in pieces, unless the; wind; by '-a/kind of
^facje^ should immediately turn about." In a word, we sat
looking upon one anotherj, and expecting deathj every moment';:
and teyer^7 man acting accordingly, as preparing for another
^?r¥v(?-r;jfhere was Tittle or nothing, mors; for us toVdo'Tn
-1fl j ti^at Vhich was our present comfort, arid all the comfort
we. had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, tie ship did *
^^N^jet, and that the master said-the wind began to
ajbate. ,,...*'  ''""•'.. •" *' ***' '**
\W>w> though we thought that the.wind did' a little aba&V
yet the ship having thus struck upori the sand, and sticking too
*a,st %,, us to expect her getting off, we were in a' dreadful
^°^1lty°n indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving1
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just
before the storm, but she was first staved, by dashing against
the ship's rudder, and, }h the next place, she broke away, and
^ither sunk, or was driven off to sea 5 so there was no hope
frpm^her: we had another boat on board, but how to get her
off into the sea was a^doubtfal thing j however, there was no ^
room to Sebate^for we fancied the ship would break ift |>je'cesr
every minute1,1 arid some told us she was actually ^>r6ken
already1., j .,/.'   \ 
In iis distress^'the mate of our vessel laid Hold of the1 Boat,
and, with the help of the rest of the men/ they £ot her fltmg
over the shljp's'side; and getting all into her, let her goj and,
committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy,'
and trie wild sea1: for though the storm was abated con-
siderably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and
mighY be well called "den wild' zee," as the Butch call the
sea in a storm.
And now our case was Very dismal indeed $ for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so high, that the boat could riot live/
and that we should be Inevitably drowned. As to making sail,'
we had none 5 nor,* if we had, could we have done any thing
with it $ so we worked at the oar towards the land, though
with heavy hearts, like men going1 to execution; for* we all
knew that when tie boat came nearer to the shore, she would
be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea/ How-
ever, we comrnitted our souls to God In the most'earnest'
manner 5 »and the wmd;drmngus tpwards the shore, we hastened
our destruction with our own 'hands/ pulling as;Well as We
could Wards land. , ''' ,/'? T*'1*
\Vhat the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether ste£p*
or shoal—we knew not j the only hope that could rationally'
give us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we rnighr/
happen into some bay or gulph, or the mouth of some riyef/
where by great chance we might have run our boat in/ or got
under tne lee of the land, and perhaps made Smooth wat(Jr?|
Eut, there was nothing of this appeared j and as we made nearer
anS nearer ihe shore, the land looked more frightful than tfi6J
sea*
'After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league*and4 ft*
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like> came*
rolling a&tern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coiify $le*
grate. In a word, it took us with such a fury, that: it oVerset^
the bo^t at ohcef and separating us, as well from the1 boat as
from ^ne anptner, gave us not time hardly to say, "O God 1*^
for we were all swallowed up in a moment. ''Kj
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought ^yhlch I £lf£
when I sunk into the water i for though I swarri very well; yet
I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw rirj?
breath, till tfcfrt wavehavingdtriverjjrne^ of rather carried me^ii'
vast way on'towards'' the'shore; arid' having'spent itself,^ weri?
ROB-raaeM? $zp&o$. 3$
 
seeing myself
^P?*^ * got-upon my feet, and endeavoured to rnake,pn tp
war&Tthe land as fast as I coujd, before another waveshoul^
return and take me up again 5 but I soon found it WaVimppspitile
toxoid it j for I saw the sea come after me as high as; n §re&
hl|V, and as furious as an enemy, winch I had no;jnean.3 of
strength to contend with: my business was to hold my br^ithj,
and raise myself apon the watei, if I could; and so, by swinvr
nilng, io preserve my breathing, and pilot myself toward* f.hc
•shore, if possible 5 my greatest concern now being, that \hv
wave, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore wheu
it came on, might not carry me back again with, it when it
gave back towaids the sea. ',
The/wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
^vcn)y or ^thirty feet deep in Us own body y and I could feel
niyjelg parried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the
shore. a\yery, great way >vbut, I M& iny breath, and assisted
myself to iswirri, &li^jorwa?d" with* att my migh t. 'I was ready
tqjbjkttstjwith holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands.
shoot out above the surface of the water ^ and though it was
ncK two seconds of time that I (fculd keep myself so, yet it re-
lieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new courage. - I was
covered again with water a good while^ but not $0 lqhg but I
helB Vt out j and finding the water had spent itself, and began
to ^eiurh^T struck forward against the return of die waves, and
ftl(?grottndp;again with my feet. I stood still a few moments,
toj;ec^ from me, and then
took*to my1 "heels, and ran with what strength I had.farther
towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me from the
%^of the.sea, which came pouriug in after me again; and
twice more'I was lifted up by the Waves, and carried forwards
as before^ the shore being very flat.
• The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me 3
% the.sea having hurried me along, as before, landed me^ or
rathe^ashedme, against a piece of a rock, and that with speh
force,5 asT( it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my
own deliverance 5 for the blow taking my side ana1 breast, beat
the.breath, as it were, quite,'out of my body j and hid it re-
turnedLagalh Ir^ediatelyj/^niust have been strangled in .the
^^7ubqtl'l^c^ex{sd a litfle ,te(o^e the^return^ the^wave?,
and seeing X should'aguA be covered with the•water^ 1^-
Solved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my
breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now, asthe waves-
were not so high as the first, being nearer land, I held my
hold till the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
trought me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it
went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me
away 5 and the next run I took, I got to the main land ,* where,
to rpy great comfort, I clambered up the clifts of the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger* and quite out
of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there
were, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe
it is impossible to express, to the life, what the ecstasies and
transports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say,
x>ut of the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom,
viz, that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neekj
•is tied up, and just going to be turned, off, and has a reprieve
.brought to him; I say, I do not wonder that they bring a
^lirgeon with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell
<him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from the heart, and overwhelm him.
*' F©r sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."
• I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands; and irry
..whole being, as, I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of
my • deliverance $ making a thousand gestures and motions,,
.which J cannot describe $ reflecting upon all my comrades that
.were drpwned, and that there should not be one "soul sayed
.but myself j for, as for them, I never saw themafterwards, or
tanysign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two
shoes ,that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—rwhen the beach and
froth of the sea, being so big I could hardly see it,'it lay so far
off—and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could* gel
•onshore?. ,.; .; ... ,,....
- j ^fter I Jiad solaced my mind with the comfortable' part of
^my condition, 1 began to look round me, to see'what kind 6f&
•place I,was in,.and what was next to be done 5 arid I soou
,fpund my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dfead-
.ful deliverance: for I was wet, ^had no clothes to shift meiTnbjr
any;thing eitiierjo eat or drinl^, tp comfort me j "neither did I
, see, any prospect before me, but that of perishing ^witH' hunger,
qx being devoured by wild beasts,: and th^t HVhion was parr
ticularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon, either to
nunt^and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
mysetf qgainst any other creature that might desire to kill me
lor theirs. In a Word^ j faft nothing about me but a knife, a
tobacco-p,pe, arid a little tobacco in a box. This was all my
provision; and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind,
wat, for a while, I ran about like a madman. Night coming
pon me, I began", with a heavy heart, to consider what would
e my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country,
ai? 3u ni§ht they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time,
was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny—
which grew near me, and where! resolved to sit all night—and
consider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the shore,
to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to
my great joy $ and having drank, and put a little tobacco in
myr mouth, to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting
up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I should
sleep, I might not fall-, and having cut me a short stick, like
a trdncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging ; and having
been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com-
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition;
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever
was on such an occasion.
WJien-I waked, it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and sweD as be^
fore j but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was
hfted off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the
swelling of;the tide, and was driven up almost.as far as the
rock which I first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by
the wave dashing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up*
ttgnti still, I wished myself on board, that at least I might save
Som« necessary things for my use.
W^ien I came down from rny apartment in the tree, 1 looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat j which
iayj as the wind and the sea had tossed her up, upon the. land;
about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could
upon the shore, to have got to her j but found a neck, or inlet,
of water between me and the boat, which was about half a
?pue. broad 5 so I came back for the present, being more intent
upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for
^y present subsistence/ !' -1: :
^8 A.DVENTVHJSS OJP i
A little afternoon* i found the sea very calm* and the tide
ebbed so farj out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of the shi:>: and here I found a fresh renewing of my griefj
for 1 ww evidently* that if we had kept .on boards we had
been all safe^that is to say> we. had all got safe on-shore, and
I had not been so miserableyas to be left entirely destitute of all
comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but.as there was little relief in that, I resolved/
if possible, to get to the ship ,* so I pulled off my clothes, for
the weather was hot to extremity, #nd took 'the water: but
when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to
know how to get on board; for as she lay aground, and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold
-of. I swam round her twice, and the second time 1 spied a
small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at tot,
hang down by the fore-chains so low> as that, with great
difficulty, I got hold of it, and by the help-of that'rope got
into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold ,y but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand,'or rather earth,
that her stern: lay lifted up upon! the bank, and Jier head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free,
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my
first work*was to search and to see what was spoiled1 and what
was free: and, first, I found that all the ship's provisions were
dcyand untouched by the waterl.j and, being very well disponed
to eat, I went to the bread^room, and filled my pockets with -
biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to Jose; I also found some rum in the great cabins of
which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough
of, to. spirit; me.cfor what was before me. Now I vwanted
nothing but a boat) to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me. ..-')
It was in vain to sit still* and wish for what wai not to be
had,/and this extremity roused my application: we had several*
spare yards,-and two or three large spars of wood,*anda spare
top-mast or. two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work* with
these,:and flung as many overboard as I could manage for their
weight, tying every one with a rope, that they might not drive
away. 'When thisr wa& done, I went down* the ship's \s\ds,
and pulling them to me, I tied four of them iast together at
both'ends, as "well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying
two; or three short pieces of plank upon them;- crosrways* • I
found I codld walk upon it very well, but that it war not airi$
MM
3fli%llip
 
Ivi. I. 3'.'.
to bear any great height, the pie&s being too light: so I went
to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare t6p-mast *
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself
with necessaries, encouraged me to go beyond what I should
tu ^Cen a^e t0 *iave (*one uPon anotner oca!si°n- .
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next €are was what to load it with, and how to preserve
what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea j but I Was not
long considering this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon
it that I could get, and having considered well what I most
wanted, I got three of the seamens' chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, ana lowered them down upon my
raftj these I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three
Butch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh, (which we
lived much upon), and a little remainder of European corn,
which had been laid by for some fowls which we had brought
tQ,$ea*with;.us> but the fowls were killed. There had been
some barley>jandvwheattogether, but, to my great disappoint-
ment, I found afteirwaids that the rats'had eaten or spoiled it
all. -.As for liquors, I found several cases of botttes belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and, in all,
about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests, nor any
room for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide began
to flow, , though very calm; and I had the mortification to see
my coat, shirt', and waistcoat, which I had left on shore, upon
the sand,, swim away $ as for my breeches, which were only
Hnerii and open-kneed, I swam on board in-them, and my
stockings. However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes,
of;^hich 1 found enough, but took no more than I wanted for
present use, for I had other things which my eye was more
upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore: and it was after
long ^searching that I found the carpenters chest, which Was-
indeed a very useful prize lo me, and much more valuable
tlvan a ship-Jading of gold wpuld have been at that .time.. I
g0.t;U dpwn to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing
time.to.jook into it, for I knew* in general what it contained. J
,My next care was. for some ammunition and arms. There*
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two>
pistols j these 1 Becured first, with some powder-horns, and a
small-Jjggpf shot, and two old rusty swords: I knew there
w,ere/jhree barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
°u* gunner had stowei them; but with much .search I ifouud
them, two of thera dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I'
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how
I should get to shore with them, having'neither sail, oar, nor
rudder j and the least capfull of wind would have overset all,
my navigation.
I had three encouragements: 1st, A smooth, calm sea:
2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the shore :f Sdly, What
little wind there was, blew me towards the land. And thus,
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boaty
and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two'
saws, an axe, and a hammer -, and with this cargo I put to sea'.
For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that
I found it drive a little distant from the place where Thad
landed before; by which I perceived that there was some in-
draft of the water, and consequently I hoped to find some creek
6r river there, which I might make use of as agort toget to
land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so ft was: there appearedbefore me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of* the tide
set into it j so I guided my raft, as well as T could/ t'b get Into"
the middle of the stream. 'But Here FhacMike'to have suffered*
a second shipwreck, which', if Iliad/I think Verily would have1
broken my heart y for knowing nothing of the c6ast, my raft
rah aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not beihgaground
at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped off towards that end that was afloat/and so fallen into
the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back against the
chests, to keep,them in their places, but could hot thrust off
the raft with all my strength j neither durst I stir from the" pos-
ture I was in, bii,t holding up the chests with all'my might, f
stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising
of the water brought me a little more upon a level £ anci a little
after/the water still risingi my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving up.-
higner, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,"
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running"
up. I looked oh both sides for a proper place to get to shore/
for f was hot willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping,'
in time, to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place
myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek/
to which, with great pain and'difficulty, T guided my* raft, and
at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I
41
could thrustyher directly in j but here T had like to have dipped
all rny cargo into the sea again 5 for that shore lying pretty
steep, that is to say* sloping, there was no place to land, but
^r|qneendpf my. float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high,
and the other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger my
cargo again. M\ that I could do, was to wait till the tide was
at the, highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor, to
h' ule^de of xtfastt0 ^sll0re>ncara liat piece of Sr°^d,
which I expected the water would flow over; and so. it did. As
soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot
of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars, into
the ground, one on one side, near one end, and one on the
other side, near, the, other end: and thus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my raft and all my "cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods,, to secure
them from whatever might happen.- Where I was, I yet knew
not j whether, qn the continent, or, on an island 3 whether in-
habited, or not inhabited 5 whether in danger of wild beasts,
or, nofr . There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to over-top
some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward.
Ii took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols,
and a horn of powder? and thus armed, I travelled for dis-
covery, up to the top of that hill j where, after I had, wilh great
laboured difficulty, got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, .environed every
way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks, which
J^y ^.great, wayoff,; and two small islands* less than this, which
layabout three leagues to the west.
J foqnd also that the island I was in was barren, and> as I
*W,g<Jod reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts,
of whom, however, I saw none > yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but knew not their kinds 3 neither, when I killed, them, could
*Jell what was fit for food, and what not. At my coming back,
Xjhotatja great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the
we. p£,a great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had
been fired,there since the creation of the world: J. had.no
sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose an
innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused
^creaming, and crying, every one according to his usual note j
°ut not one.of them of any kind that I knew. As for the
Watnre I kmed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour
and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws more than
common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for npming.
Contented with this discovery; I came'back to my raft, and
fell to work to bring my cargo on- shore, which took me up
thef rest of that day: what to do with myself at night I knetf
not, nor indeed where to rest: for I was afraid to lie down on *
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour
me 5 though, as I afterwards found* there was really no need
for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round with
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made 3
kind of a hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet satf
not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or
three creatures, like Jiares, run out of the wood where 1 shot
the fowl.'
; I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many
tilings out of the ship, which would be useful to rrie, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things
as might come to land; and I resolved to make another voyage
on board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the first
storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I re*
solved to set all other things apart, till I got every thing out of 
the ship that I could get. Then I called a council, that is to;
say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back the raft $ but t
this appeared impracticable t so I resolved to go as before, *
when the tide was down 5 and I did sq, only that I stripped be- ,
fore.I went from my hut,;^ having nothing-on but a che^uerecl
shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet*'
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; \
and having had experience of the first, I neither made this so/
unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several
things very useful to me: as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I
found two' or three bags full of nails and spikes, a, great
screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets; and, above all, that j
most useful thing called a grind-stone. All these IirsecureH
together, with several things belonging to the gunner.; fOP0]
tfcularly, two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket *
t>ullets, seven muskets, and another Fowling-piece, with son^
jsmall quantity of powder more 5 a large bag-full df small shot/
and a great roll of sheet-lead 5 but this last was so heavy, \
<:ould not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side* V
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that jp could
find, and a spare fore-topsail, ahammock> anclsome beading;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and trough*, them $ I
#afe on shore, tp my veiy great comfort.
KOBINSOH CHtfSOE. 4S
the l7 ^ Urtfer SOme aPPrebensions> during my, absence from
shn v ™t'at least my provisions might be devoured on
onlv^rt UvhenI c^me back, I found no sign of any visitor;
which tSat a feature, like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
then sto ri "'Came towards lt> rat* away a liu^e distance, and
loolrp i r 11 S-t1^* ^be sat very composed and unconcerned, and
witfTm i11 ^ face> as if she had a mind t0 be acquaintcd
dersta a • Presented my gun at her, but, as she did not un-
offrr f *'J She Was Perfectlr unconcerned at it, nor did she
th i ttlT SWay' uVon which l tdssed her a bit of biscuit>
nough, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was
not great: however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to
•b tTrt. °f lt' and ate ityand looked ^ Pleased) for more;
ut l thanked her, and could spare no more: so she marched
Having gpt my 'second cargo on shore—though I was fain to
°Pen ™e barrels o/ powder, and bring them by parcels, for they
were too heavy, being large casks—I went to work to make me
a litUe tent, with the &ail, and some poles which I cut for that
purpose; and mto this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would spoil either with rain or sun j and I piled all the empty
chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from
any sudden attempt either from man or beast. •
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two
Pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went
io bed, for the first time, and slept very quietly all night,-for J
was very weary and heavy V^fbr the night before I had slept
W 5. had lab<>ured very hard all day, as well to fetch all
3 h 7? ^ the si"P' as t0 Set them 0n shore-
la'n? ru bl&Sest mag?zine of all kinds now that ever was
WwK-i , eve' for one man j but I was not satisfied still r
Whf f • ship sat upnght in that posture, I thought I
Vt-lo $Ct CVery UlinS out of her that I could: so every day,
or otk Wat5r*1 went on board, and brought away something
VW*\f: particularly, the third time I went, I brought
rooes a *** Qf &e rl%Zln% ** J could, as.also all the small
wh'h I0Pe't^n« * could get, with apiece of spare canvas,
_ men was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gun-powder. In a word, I brought away all the sails first
as£f Sk only *at I was fain to cut them in pieces, apd bring
h^T mv a time as I CDuld > *br they- were no more useful to
^ sails, but as mere pqvas only.
But that which comforted me still more was, that* last of all,
after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought
I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my
meddling with 5 I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of
bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of
sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this was surprising to me,
because I had given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead
of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of
the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe
on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage, and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I
began with the cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces,,
such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore,
with aU the iron-work I could get 5 and having cut dpwn the
spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every tiding I could, to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods 5 and
came away: but myvgood luck began now to leave me; for
this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was
entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my godcls,
not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it over-!
set, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for my-
self, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore ^ but as to
my cargo, it was great part of it lost, especially die iron, which
I expected would have been of great use to me: however,
when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore,
'.and some of the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was *
fain to dip for it into the water/ a work which fatigued me
very much. After this I went every day on board, and brought,
away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
1 times on board the ship; in which time I had brought away
all that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to
bring; though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I
should have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece '^nV
preparing, the twelfth time; to go on board, I'found the whid
<beg»n to rise: however, at low water, I went on board; and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as
that nothing.more could be found, yet I discovered a locker
with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors,
and one pair of large scissars, with some ten or a d6zen of
• good knives and forks; jn another I found about thirty-six
pounds value in money, some European coin, some Brasil,
some pieces of eight, some gold,, and some silver.
T ^Siledu° m?selfat the sight of this money: Odrug! said
no n , * aft tllou §ood for? Thou art not worth t0 me*
wnV^iw^ ^5 off the ground; one of those knives is
remain wl. uap: Ihave nomanner of use for thee; e'en
whose lif * art' and 2° t0 ,the bottom> as a creature
I took veiSnotwortil saving. However, upon second thoughts,
beffan t tu-^5 and wraPPing a11 this in a piece of canvas, I
ine tJii? t f °f makinS another raft; but while I was prepar-
ing ** d the sky over-cast, and the wind began to rise,
It *r 3 q^rter °f an hour *lt blew a fresh §ale from die shore-
^presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
bn<!n a ?T Wlth ^ wind off shore5 anc* that ]t was mr
I m- IT g0*Q before the tide of flood began, or otherwise
iyi l//0t be able t0 reach*the shore at a11- Accordingly I let
1**1 n int0 die water, and swam across the channel which
ay between the ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty
enough partly witli the weight of the things I had about me,
and partly the roughness of .the water; for the wind rose very
nastily and before i£,was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that
mgiit, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold, no more
snip was to be seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered my-
n t! j satisfactory ^flection, viz. that Iliad lost no,time;
nor abated no diligence, to get every tiling out of her that could
oe useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little left in her
™at 1 was able to bring away, if I had had more time. .
^v R0W gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any
u*ing, out of her, except what might drive on shore, from Her
reck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those
things were of small use to me.
self * §  Were now wllolly employed about securing my-
u agamst either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts,
rn^/u1"6 in the island 3 and I had mmY thoughts of .'the
wh tfc t t0 do thiSi and what kind of dwellin£ to make,
tne u shouK make me a cave in the earth» or a tent "P011
and H* •' an^ *n s^°Tt> * resolved upon both; the manner
a descnption of which, it may not be improper to give an
>so°n *°und "the place I was in was not for my settlement,
Particularly because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near
„e .seaj and J believed it would not-be wholesome; and more
sio) A ly because there was no fresh water near it: so I re-
Ved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in ray situation, which I fouii^
.vould be proper for me: 1st, Health and fresh water, I just
iow mentioned: sdly, Shelter from the heat of file sun'1,
idly, Security from ravenous creatures, whediermenbYbeasts^
\ihiy, A view to the sea, that if God sent any ship rrv sight, I
night not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which?
vas not willing to banish all my expectation yet. °J
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little jilaitf
on thcside of a rising hill, whose front towards this little* p]afrJf
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come dbwfl
upon me from the top* On the side of this rock there was £*,
hollow place, worn a little way in, like the ^entrance or door of-
a <;ave 5 but there was not really any cave, or way into thetock>
at all. ;*
On the fiat of the green, just before this hollow place, I re-V
solved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above ah hundred^
yards broad, and about twice as -long-, and lay like a green'!
- before my door; and, at the end of it, descended irregularly
every way down fnto the low ground by the sea side. It was
on the N. N. W. side of the hill 5 so that it was sheltered from
the heat every day, till it came to 3 W. and by S. sun, or there;-' 5
abouts, which, in those countries, is near me setting. "J
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle 'before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi»diameter •
from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its be-'}
ginning and ending. ;|
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driv^
ing them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, uV
biggest end being out of the ground about kve feet and an haKJ t
and sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above,!
six inches from one another. v \l 
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship) j
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the -circlej/Wj
tween these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other
stakes in the inside, leaning against: them, about two feet'audatf
half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was $0 strong
that neither man or beast could get into it 01 over it Thi*!
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut th^
piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive then*
into the earth. \v , 
The entrance into misplace I made to be not by a door, but
by a short ladder to go OVer the top; which ladder, when "I"
was'in, I lifted over after life; and so I was completely fence^
in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and coil'-
f'uLl.
sequ^ndy ^lept. secure in the night, which otherwise I could
not havesdpne j though, as it appeared afterwards, there was
dan f^ a this caution from the enemies that I apprehended
^Into.this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all
vmi*l<? ?my Provisions^ ammunition, and stores, of which
whirfc? account above; and I made me a large tent,
"r *'t0 Reserve me from the rains, 'that in one part of the
tent >vVW violent there> 1 made double, VTiz- one smaller
ni within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the upper-
ino^t with a, large,tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.
hmnuWlhym more for a while in the bed which l had
"gut on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very
good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship,
tv, f i ^ * to^g^t all my provisions, and every thing
^nat would spoil by the wet 5 and having .thus enclosed all my
goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
ana^o passed, and repassed, a? I said, by a short ladder.
When l^had; .done, this, I began to work my way into the
rqck, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the
nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about a
loot and an half 5 and thus I made me a cave, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house. It cost me.
much labour and many days, before all these tilings were
orought to perfection; and therefore I must go back to some
other things which took up some of my thoughts. At the
same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain,
jailing from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning
Happened, and after that, a great clap of thun<:er, as is naturally
. enect of it. I Was not so much surpri'ied widi the light-
ing' as I was with a thought, which darted into my mind as
kuHI. -.^ ]i§htmng itself: O my powder I My very heart
^f, Wlthm roe when I thought, that at one blast, all my
powder might be destroyed j on which, not my defence only,
Was tPfQYiding me food, as I thought, entirely depended. .1
hJ1 *u° mS near so anxious about my own danger, though,
«aa tne powder took fire, I had never known who had hurt me.
buch impression did this makeupm me, that after the storm
as over, I laid aside.all my works, my building and fortifying,
na-apphed myself to make bags and boxes, to separate the
gyner, and to keep it a little anc* a little in a parcel, an hope
"** Whatever might come, it mi^ht not all take fire at once*
andto keep it so "apart, that it should not be possible to make -
'ciiepaVtffire^another" J I finished thisworkirPa1}du>a< fortnight;
and I thinkmypowdefi^liieh hTall was abbut^40ilbi°weight,
'was divided in not less than a hundred parcels^As1-tb*rtbe
barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend anjr-^danger
from that j sb I placed it irf my new cave1, Whichy in inj* fancy,
I called' my kitchen* arid the re!StlI hid up and^oWn^m^boles
ahiorig the rocks, so that'rid Wt- might'Come to 4t)' lurking
very carefully- whcr£ 14aid if.'*• *•' v»v ^^' ;i . tu:t
In theihterval of time while this was do'ih'jj; PWetit dut'atfMst
once ev\sry day with myJgdn:i asweinoraivert my&If, as to see
if I could kill any thing ntforfood * -and/'as'hear as I cdu!d,Uo
acquaint myself withSvhat the island produced*'' tf he* first'time
I went out, I presently discovered that there'wergigoatff/upotv
the island, which was a great satisfaction'j to rri^^^bul then it
was attended with this misfortune tome, viz.- that they*wgre'so
shy, so subtile, and so swift of fodt, that it WaS the moat difficult
thing in the world to come at them: but I was not discouraged
dt this, not doubting but I might how and then shoot orie, as
it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts' aMittfe, 1
laid wait in thi^marinerfdr them'; ^Iyobsefved, ifMiiey saw'me
in the valleysr,' though the^y w'ere ui>bri-the rock^,*ah^y would
nm away as in a terrible fright • but if they were1 feeding in
the'valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no ribtfcS of
me; from whence I concluded, that by the 'position^of*their
optics, their sight was -so directed^downward, tliat they did \wt
readily see objects; that were aboVb' them: so, afterwards? I
took this method-t-I always climbed the- rocks fi'rst,^lo" get
above them, and then had frequently a fair mark. - The'first
shot I made among these creatures, I killed" al$he-gd;U, which
had a little'kid by her, which she gave suck tb> which grieved
me lieartily; but when the old one fell, th& kid stood Stock
still by,her, till I came and took her tip*. 'arid*not billy* sd>^t
when learned the old one with me, upon my shoulders', fthe'
kid followed me quite to my enclosure v*ufort"which>'I'laid
down the dam, and took the kid in my arms/ and carried i*
over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up'tame ; 'but^it^Jul^'
not eat* so I was forced to'kill it, and eat it myself:* J These
two supplied me with flesh a great white, for I die sparingly>'
and preserved my provisions (my bread especially) aVWiuch *»s
possibly I could:1 '" •' I *>"'
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely ne-
cessary to provide a'place to'make a fire in, arid5 fuel to"bbrnj
and what I did for'that, as also how I enlarged my cavk, a»<*'
what conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of it in
its proper place; but I must first give some little account of
myself; and of my thoughts about living, which, it may well be
supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition ,* for as I was not
<xst away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by
a .violent storm, quite out of the course of our intended voyage,
and a great way, vifc. some hundreds of. leagues> ,out of the
ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to
consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The
tears would run plentifully down my face when I made these
reflections j and sometimes I would expostulate with myself,
Jvhy Providence.should thus completely ruin its creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable; so* abandoned without
help; so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to-be
thankfiiHoi;,such a life. .<
But Bomethingalways-Peturned swift upon me to check these
thoughts, and to reprove me: and particularly, one day, walk-
ing with my gun in my hand, by the sea side, I Was very pen-
, .sive upon the subject of my present condition, when reason,
as it were, expostulated with me the other way, thus: "Well,
you are in a desolate condition, it is true j but, pray remem-
ber, where are the rest of you? Did not you come eleven of
you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were not they
saved, and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better
to be here or there?" And then I pointed to the sea. All
<*vil$ are to be considered with the good that is in them, and
with what-worse attends them.
Then itoccurred to me again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case ifithadnot
happened (which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship
floated from the place where she first struck, and was driven
so near to the shore, that I had time to get all these things out
of her: what would have been my case, if I had J>een to have
Jived in the cpndition in which I at first came on shore, with-
out necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure
%m? Particularly, said I aloud (though to myself) what
phouMI have done without a gun, without ammunition, with-
out any tools to make any thing, or to work with, without
clothes, bedding, a tent, or (any manner of covering? and that
now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair
*ay to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my
gun, when my ammunition was spent: so thp I had a tolerable
VOL. i. D
view of subsisting, without any want, as long as I lived; fdrl
considered, from the beginning, how I would provide for-the ac-
cidents that might happen, and for the time that-was Ao corner
not only after my ammunition should be spent,,but even after
my health or strength should <tecay. -
I confess* I* had not entertained any notion of my ammuni*
tion being destroyed at one blast, I mean, my .powder being
blown up>by lightning? and this-made the thoughts of it.so
surprising'to me, when it lightened and thundered, as Iob-
served just now, .: -
And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation: of a
scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard o£in; the
world before, I shall take it from its beginning^ and continue it
in its order. It was,, by my account, the 30th of September,
when, in the. manner as: above-said, I first set foot upon tills
horrid island 5 when thesun, beirig to us in its autumnal erjui*
nox, was almost just over my head j fori reckoned myself, by
observation, to be in the latitude of g degrees £2 minutes4 north
of the Line.  ', : ; :,
After I had beeri there about ten or- twolve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose irry reckoning off time for
want of books, and'pen and ink, and should'even.forget the
sabbath days from the working days: but, to prevent this, I
cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capital-letters*, and
making it into a great cross, I set k up on the shore where71
first ianded, viz. "I came on shore here xm the 30th of Sep-
tember, 1659/' Upon the sides of this squares post Tciit every
day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch *wa£ as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month sis
long?-agamic that lohgone: and thus I kept' my kalehdarV or
weekly4, monthly, and yearlyreckoning of time;'
But*it happened, that among the mairiy things *wHicb Ibrought
out of the ship, iridie several voyaged which, a*s'above merfi
tioued, Imade to it, I got several things of less- value, but not
at'all loss useful to me, which I found, sottl6 tirrid' after, in
ntmrmigingth'echests j as; in^partieular/pens/ink, arid paper;
several parcels in the captain^, mate's, gunhfer% and carpen*
ter*s keeping 5 three o"r four cbrnpasses-, some rrjathematicariri-
strumentSi dials, perspectives', charts, and'books of 'havigatlbii;
all whrch I buddfed- together, whether F might want* them or
rio: also I found fhre^ very good bibles/, which came to me in
my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among
my thing**; some Portuguese books also, and, among them,
iSro or three Popisfi grayer books, and several other books,* all
R031NSON .CfLUfiOE. 5l
which Ipa»fully^ecwed.M Aud J must not forget, that we
had in the ship a dog, and two cat$>cf whose eminent history
I.may have occasion to say something, in its place: for I ear-
ned both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out
of the ship himself, and swam-oil shore to me the day after I
went on shore with my "first cargo, and was a trusty servant to
me for many years: I Wanted nothing that he could fetch me,
nor any company that he could make up to me 5 I only want&i
to have, him talk to.me, but that would not do. As I observed
before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them
to the utmost $. and I shall show, lhat while my ink lasted,
A kept things very exact, but after that was gone 1 could not;
for I could not make any ink, by any means that I could
devise. -
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
^^stan.ding qll^that I had amassed together.; and of these,
this,of Jiik was.pne.$ ,as,aJso;a spade, pickaxe and shovel, to
dig, or remove the earth 5 needl#s, pins, and thread: -as for
linen, I soon learned to" want that without much difficulty.
This wan,t of tools made every work I did go on heavily $
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
iny little pale, pr surrounded habitation. The piles, or stakes,
wjiich were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and
bringing home one of those posts/and a third day in driving it
into the ground 5 for which purpose, I got a heavy, piece of
wood afc first,, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
Srowa; ^hicb,, however*though 1 found it, yetitmade driving
tbesfe pjosts, or piles, Yery laborious and tedious work. But
what, need I have been concerned at the tediousness of any
thing I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor
had:J any other employment, if that had been over, at least
that; I:dould, foresee, except the ranging the island* to .seek for
food; which I did, more or less, every day.
J now. began to consider seriously my conditiop, and the
circumstance I Vas reduced to *, and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much1 to leave them to my that
were to tome after me (for 1 -was like to have but few heirs)
as to deliver my thoughts from; daily poring upon them, and
afflicting my mind; and as my reason began now to master
rny despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could,
and to .set the good against the evil, that I might have some-
thing to distinguish my case from worse; and 1 stated^t very
impartially, like debtor and oreditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I suffered, thus:
. Evil- Good*
< I am cast upon a horrible, desolate But I am alive, and not drowned,
island, void of all hope of recovery, as all my ship's company were.
I am singled out and separated, as :But I am singled out too from all
it were, from all the world, to be *the ship's crew, to be spared from
miserable. death; and He that miraculously
* saved me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from mankind,« so- But I am not starved, and perish-
litaire; one banished from human, ing in a barren .place, affording no
society. sustenance*
I have no clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot climate, where,
if I had clothes, I could hardly wear
them.
I am without any defence, or But I am cast on an island where
'means to resist any violence of man I see no wild beasts to hurt me, as I
or beast. * saw on the coast of Africa: and what
if I had been shipwrecked there?
I have no soul to speak to, or re- But God wonderfully sent the ship
.lievcme, ir^ .near enough to Jrje shore, that I
have got out* so many necessary
things as ViU' either supply my
'wants, or enable me to supply my-
self, even as long as, J live. , -, .
Upon the whole, here was' an undoubted testimony, that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but
there was something negative, or something positive, to be
thankful for ih it: and let this stand as a direction,* froth the
experience of the most miserable of aU conditions in this world,
that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves
from, and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condi-
tion, and giving over looking out to sea, to see if I'could spy a
ship i I say, giving over these things, I began to apply myielf
to accommodate my way of living, and to make things as easy
to me as I could.'
I have already described my habitation/which wasva tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts
and cables j but I might now rather call it a wall, for rraised
a kind of wail against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the
outside: and after some time (I think it was a year and a half)
I raised rafters from it, leaningto the*rodk,:arid thatcheri or
covered it with boughs cf trees, and *uch things as I could
get, to keep out the rain; which'I found, at some times of the
year, very violent,
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me. But
I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap of
rgoods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my
place j I had no room to turn myself r so I set myself to en-
large my cave, and work farther into the earth; for it was a
loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed
°n it: and when I found I was pretty safe as to the beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand, into the rock, and
then turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made
roe a door to come out in the outside of my pale or fortifi-
cation.
This gave me not only egress and .regress, as It were, a back-
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to
stow my goods.
Andinow I> begaiuto apply myself to make such necessary
things as I? founds most wanted, particularly a chair and a table j
for without these I was* not able to enjoy the few comforts I
had in the world y I could not write, or eat, or do several
things,with so much pleasure, without a table: so I went to
work. And here 1 must needs observe, that as reason is the
substance and original of the mathematics, so by stating and
squaring every thing by reason, and by making the most ra-
tional judgement of things, every man may be, in. time, .master
fif every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life j
and yet, in time, by labour, application, and contrivance,.!
fpundj:aUast, that I wanted nothing but I could have made,
especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance of
things, even without tools j and some with no more tools than
,an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made, that
way before, and that with infinite labour. For example, if I
wanted-a board, I had no other way but to cut down a .tree,
set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then
4uh it. smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method, I
could make but one board out of a whole tree > but this I had
no .remedyWor but patience, any more than I had for toe pro-
digious deal of time and labour which it took me up to make
a plank or board: but my time,or labour was little worth,
and so it was as well employee! one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a,chair, as I observed
above,, in the first place; and this, I did out of the short pieces,
54f A&VBJJTURE& OF
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. Bat when
I wrought out some boards, as above, I made large shelves, of
the breadth of a foot and a half* qne/over another, all along
one side of my cave,, to lay; all my tools* nails, and iron-work
on 5, and, In a word, to separate every thing at large* in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces
into the wall of the rock, to bang nay guns* and all things that
would hang up: so that, had my cave been seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things;. and I had
every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a> great pleasure
to me to see all my goods in such order,, and especially to find
my stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's
employment 5 for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry,
and not oidy hurry as to labour, but in much discomposure of
mine) j and my journal would, too, have been full of many dull
things: for example, I must have said thus—(€ Sept* 30th, After
I, bad got to shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being
thankful to God for my deliverance, having first vomited, with
the great quantity of salt water which was gotten into- my
stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore,
wringing my hands,, and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out, I was undone,, undbne t till,
tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground' to re-
pose; but durst not sleep, for fear of being devoured.'*
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship and got all that I couid out of her, I could not forbear
getting up to the top of $ little mountain, and looking out to
sea, in hpoes: of seeing1 a ship; then fancy that, at a vast dis-
tance, I spied a: sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and,
after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and
sit down and weep like a child, and- thus increase my misery
by my folly.
But, having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household-stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I
began to keep my journal: of which I shall here give you the
copy (though in it will be told all1 these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted j for having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off.
THE JOUKNAL.
Septemler 30th, 1C59. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the ©frrng>
came onshore on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called
•the Island op Despair; all the cest of the ship s company
being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I had neither food,,,
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to: and, in despair of
any relief, saw nothing but death before me; that I should
either be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or
starved to death for want of food. At the approach of night
I slept in a tree, for fear 6f wild creatures j but slept soundly,
though it rained all night.
October i. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island j which, as it was some
comfort on one haod (for seeing her sit upright, and not
broken jn pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her tor
my relief;;) so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the
loss of my: comrades, Who] I imagined, if we had all staid on
board, might have saved the ship,, or, at least, that they would
not have been all drowned, as they were j and that, had tho
men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat, out
of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some other part
of the world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing
myself on these things j but, at length, seeing the ship almost
dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam
on board. This day also it continued raining, though with
no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. AH these day* en-
tirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of
the ship; which I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon
rafts. Much rain also in these days, though with some inter-
vals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things being
Chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was
out.
Oct. 25. a rained all night and all day, with some gusts of
wind j during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind
blowing a little harder than before) and was no more to be
seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I had
saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct: 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix ray habitation; greatly concerned r to secure
myself from any attack in the night, * either from wild beasts
or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under a
rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment j
which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall or fortifi-
cation, made of double piles, lined within with cables, and
without with turf."
From the 26th to the SOth, I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceedingly hard.;
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to see for some food, and discover the country 5 when
I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I
afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock> and lay there
for, the first night -, making it as large as I could, with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I setup all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts; and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification. -
Nov.,3. I went out with my gun, and killed] two fowls
like ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon I
went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diver-
sion; viz. every morning I walked out with my gun for two
or three hours, if it did not rain j then employed myself to*
work till about eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live
on; and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather
being excessive hot j and then, in the evening, to work again.
The working part of this day and the next was wholly employ-
ed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry work-
man: though time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soon after, as I believe they would any one else, r
Nov. 6. This day went abroad with my gun and dog, and^
killed a wild cat 5 her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for
nothing: of eveiy creature that I killed I took off the skins,;
and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw
many sorts of sea-fowl which I did not understand: but was:
surprised, and almost frightened, with two or three seals $i
which,, while I was gazing at them (not well knowing what
they were) got into the sea, and escaped me for that time;, l
j Nov. 6\, After my morning walk, I went to work with sny*
tableagain; and finished it, though not to my liking: nor
wasut long before I learned tonriend it.
rVov-7* Now it began to be settled fair weather. The
c \ '9thj »Oth/and part of the 12th (for the Hth was
mSr acconiin& t0 rny reckoning) I took wholly up to
sha "if a Chair' and with much ado brouSht lt t6 a tolerable
ifj' • ^ever to please me; and, even in the making, I
pu^ed it in pieces several times.
Qte, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting
y niark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.
in l^ l3' ^is da^lt tained > which refreshed me exceed-
t £i aDu CQ0^ tne earth: but 'lt was accompanied with
remble thunder and lightning, which frightened me dread-
\ a ^ear °^ m? Pow(ler' As soon as lt was over> * re"
solved to separate my stock of powder into as many little
Parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little
square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at^most/bf powder: and so, putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and as remote from one
another as possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat; but I knew not what to
call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into
the rock, to make room for my farther convenience.
Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz.
a piclt-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow, or basket; so I
desisted from my work, and began to consider how to supply
these wants, and make me some tools. As for a pick-axe, t
tK ,use of f:t*ie iron crows, which were proper enough,
though heavy: but the-next thing-was a shovel or spade; this
was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I could do nothing
effectually without it; but what kind of one to make I knew
not.
Nov. is. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a
tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brasils, they call
-the Iron tree, from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought
! home> too, with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding
^ heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having
no other way; made me a Ion* while upon this machine: for I
worked it effectually, by little and little, into the form of a
shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours in Eng-
«nd/^bnly that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, it would not last me so long: however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, I -believe, made after that fashion^ or
so long* a-making.
I was still deficient: for. I wanted a basket, or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make by any means, having
no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware;
at least, none yet found out: and as to the wheel-barrow, I
fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that I hafd no
notion of; neither did I know how to go about it: besides, I
had no possible way to make iron gudgeons for the spindle or
axis of the wheel to run in; so I gave it over: and, for carry-
ing away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a
tiling like a hod, which the labourers carry mortar in for the
bricklayers. This was not so difficult tome as the making
the shovel: and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took me up
no less than four days ;, I mean,, always excepting my morning
walk with my gun, which I seldom omitted, and very seldom
failed also bringing home something* fit to eat.
jVbv. 23. My other work, having no'w stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went
on; and working every clay, as my strength and time allow-
ed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening
my cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note, During all this time, I worked to make this room, or
cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse
or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for a
lodging, I kept to the tent; except that sometimes, in die wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep
myself dry j which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees, like a thatch.
Becemler 10, I began now to think my cave or vault
finished $ when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large)
a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side:
so much, that, in short, it frightened me, and not without
reason too; for if I had been under it, I should never have
wanted a grave-digger. Upon tjiis disaster, I had a great deal
of work to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry
out; and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling
to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. ll. This day I went to work with it accordingly;
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with
two pieces of board across over each post: this I finished the
next day j and setting more posts up with boards, in about a
week more I had the roof secured -, and the posts, standing in
rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.
Dec. j 7. prom this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and
could be hung up: and now I besran to be in some order
^vitlun doors.
xA'c. 20. I carried every thing into the cave, and began
to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like
a dresser, to order my victuals upon j but boards began to be
^ry scarce with me: also I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirring out.
Bee. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 2,6. Noirain y and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter. 't \
Dec. S7. Killed a young goat; and lamed another, so
that I catched it, and Jed it home in a string: when I had it
home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke.
N. B. I took such care of it that it lived; and the leg grew
well, and as strong as ever: but, by nursing it so long, it
grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and
would not go away. This was the first time that I entertained
a thought of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might
have food when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze • so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food:
this time I spent in putting all my things in order within
dQors. »
January I. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of die day. This
evening, going farther into the valleys which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceeding shy, and hard to come at j however, I resolved to
try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. Accor-
dingly, the next day, I went out with my do£, and set him
upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they all faced about
upon the dog • and he knew his danger too well, for lje would
not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall > which, being still jea-
lous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make
very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall; being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the Journal it is sufficient to qbserve, that,;.
I was no less time than fronVjte 3d of January to the uth o£,.
Aprils working, finishing, and perfecting this wall; thojagh it ,
was nd more than about 25 yards in length, being.a half'.,
circle, from one place in the rock to another place, about j
twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre,
behind it. <
All this time I worked very hards the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but I thought
I should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished 5
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour evtry thing
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of die woods,
and driving them into the ground 3 for I made them much
bigger than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced,
with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there they would not
perceive any thing like a habitation: and Jt was very well 1
did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very remark-
able occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for ,
game every day, when the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries, in these walks, of something or other to my'
advantage 5 particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, who
build, not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-
pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and, taking some young
ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so; but
when they grew older, they flew all away; which, perhaps,
was at first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to
give them: however*, I frequently found their nests, and got
their young ones, which were very good meat. And now, in
the managing my household, affairs, I found myself wanting
in many things, which I thought at first it was impbssible for
me to make; as indeed, as to some of them, it was: for in-
stance, I could never make a cask to-be hooped. I had z
small runlet or two, as I observed before; but I could never
arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though I spent'
many weeks about it: I could neither put in the heads, ribr
join the staves so true to one another as to make them hold
water; so I gave that also over. In the next place, I was ^t
a great loss for candle; so that as soon as it was dark, whidh
was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. 1
remember the lump of bees'-wax, with which I made candleV
. in my African adventure; but 1 had none of that now; Chje
in H^vS? 3n^ With a little dish made of <%> wnich'I baked
meVl t0 ^hlch X added anvick of some oakum, :r made
li^f^-lm^3 and tn^ gave riie light, though nor a clear steady
dS?i* Candld' lh the mlddle of & mY lab>ours * haP-
whirh r ^ rutnmaging my things, I found a little bag5
feert' \v nted bef°re, had been filled with corn, for the
ixra'££f ^°tultry r not for this voyage, bit1 before, as I sun-
der of Ship came from Lisbon* What little ren^n-
raW ^°irn llad en m tne bag was a*1 devoured with the
beiv an-ir SaW nothmg in the bag but husks and dust j and
it^r ?t0 have the bag for some other use (* thmk
i was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of the light-
J *' or some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it,
«n one side of my fortification, under the rock.
tk i- TWat! * ^^ before tlie great rain just now mentioned,
mat i threw this stuff away 5 taking no notice of any thing,
*?d *ot> so mu<* asrehiembering that I had thrown any thing
there: when, aboufa month after, Isaw some few stalks of
something green shooting out, of the ground, which I fancied
mig£t be some plant I had not seen j but I was surprised, and
perfectly astonished, when, after a little longer time, I saw
aoout ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green
bark Bame kmd aS °Ur EuroPean' nW> as om" EngUsh
Jit is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
«i my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto acted upon
"£ r,.'?l0us foundation at all; indeed, J had very few notions
ti^ S6n/n my begd> nor had entertained £ny sense of any.
JJ??. Pf,1 bad befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
wp lightly say, what pleases God; without so much as inquir-
ing into the end of Providence in these things, or his order in
gO\erning events in the world. But after I saw barley grow
esb?1 IT a clImate whicn l knew was not proper for corn, and
stra T aS kneW not how lt came tnere> ifc startled me
'BWj and} began to suggest,* that God had miraculously
that V^IS Srai-° t0 §row witbout an7 nelP 0I"sced sown, and
ml* Jj $*S ?° directed purely for my sustenance, on that wild
miserable place.
s This touched rny heart a little, and brought tears out of my'
yes j and 1 began to bless myself that such a prodigy of na-
4re5 should happen upon my pecount: and this was/the rriore
df tfSe ^°Tme^ becausc I saw near it still, all along by the side
^rock, some jtther straggling stalks, \vVi^prbrWt& be
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I uad seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was more in the
place, I went over all that part of the island where I had been
before, searching in every corner, and under every rock, for
more of it j but I could not find any. At last it occurred to
my thoughts, that I had shook out a bag qf chickens'-meat in
that place, and then the wonder began to cease: and I must
confess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence began
to abate too, upon the discovering that aB this was nothing
but what was common; though I ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it
had been miraculous: for it was really the work of Provi-
dence, as to me, that should order or appoint that ten or
twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats
had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropt from heaven \
as also, that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up im-
mediately 5 whereas, if I had thrown it any where else, at
that time, it would have been burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time,
to have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But
it was not till the fourth year that I could allow myself the
least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly,
as I shall show afterwards, in its order; for I lost all that I
sowed, the first season, by not observing the proper time; as
J sowed just before the dry season, so that it never came up
at all, at.least not as it would have done \ of which in its
place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which' I preserved with the same care; and
whose use was of the same kind, or to the same purpose,
viz. to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to
cook it up without baking, though I did that also after some
time.—But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14 th of April 1 closed it up j con-
triving to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a
ladder, that diere might be no sign on the outside of my ha-
bitation.
April j 6\ I finished the ladder j so I went up with the
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it
down in the inside; this was a complete enclosure to me; for
within I had room enough, and nothing coolo1 come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed j *hecase
was- thus :-—Asl was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent,
just.at the entrance into my care, I was terribly frightened
with a most dreadful surprising tiling indeed -, for, all on a
sudden, 1 found the earth come crumbling down from the roof
of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and
two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful
maimer. I was heartily scared j but thought nothing of what
really was the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave
was falling in, as some of it had done before: and for fear I
should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder > and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall, for
fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll
down upon roci I had no sooner stepped down upon the firm
ground, but I plainly-saw it was a terrible earthquake: for
the ground I stood on shook three times, at about eight mi-
nutes distance, with three such shocks as would have over-
turned the strongest building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth j and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell
down, .with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my
life. I perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent
motion by it; and I bejieve the shocks were stronger under
the water than on the island.
I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never
felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was
like one dead or stupified j and the motion of the earth made
niy stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea: but "the
noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were; and,
rousing me from the stupified condition I was in, filled* me
with horror, and I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon
my tent and my household goods, and burying all at once;
this sunk my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was -over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough
to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
s»t still upon the ground, greatly cast down, and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while, I had not the least
serious religious thought 5 nothing but the collision Lord,
&fe ADVIENTU^l E SOP
have mercy upon me! and when it was over, that went away
too. , «
While I sat'thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; and, soon after, the wind rose
by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a
most dreadful hurricane: the sea was, all on a sudden, cover-
ed with foam and froth \ the shore was covered with a breach
of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots y and a ter-
rible storm it was. This held about three hours, and then
began to abate; and in two hours more it was quite calm, and
began to rain very hard. All this while I sat upon the ground,
very much terrified and dejected j when, on a sudden, it came
into* my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the conse-
quence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and
over, and I might venture into my cave again. With this
thought my spirits began to revive j and the rain also helping
to persuade me, I went in, and sat down in my tent j but the
rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down
with it -, and I was forced to get into my cave, though very
much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head*
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the water go
out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had
been in my cave for some time, and found no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum -, which,
however, I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I
could have no more when that was gone. It continued rain-
ing all that night, and great part of the next day, so that X
could not stir abroad: but my mind being more composed, I
began to think of what I had best do > concluding, that if the
island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no
living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me
some little hut in an open place, which I might surround with
a wall, as I had done here, and so make myself secure frpm
wild beasts or men: for if I staid where I was, I should cer-
tainly, one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it now stood, being just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent. I spentr the two next
days, being the igth and 20th of Aprff, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.  lift fear of being swai-
low* ed alive aff&te'd me so, that I never slept m quiet \ and
y^fne apprehension of lying abroad, without any fence, was
almUt equals it: but still, when 'I looked about, and saw
now eveiy thing was put in ofd^r, how pleasantly I was coii-
Sealed; and how safe from danger, it made me Very loath to
remove. In the mean time, It occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this; arid that I must
he contented to run the risk where I was, till I had formed a
cQhvenient camp, and had secured it so as to remove to it.
With this conclusion I composed myself for a time \ and re-
solved that T would go to work with all speed to build me a
wall with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and set
up my tent in it when it was finished; but that I would ven-
ture to stay where I was till it was ready, and fit to remove
to. Thte was the 2ist.
,'4pril £2. tThe next morning I began to consider of means
to put this measure into execution j but I was at a great loss
about the tools.' I had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for ^e^caffned the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians) } but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard
wooi,' they were all full of notches, and dull: and though I
had a grind-stone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too.
This cost me as much thought as a statesman would have be-
stowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the
life and death of a man. At length 1 contrived a wheel with a
string, to turnJt with my foot, that I might have both my
teintls at liberty. *
Ifote, I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
feasj not to take notice how it was done, though since I have
^served it is very common there: besides that, my grind-
stone Ayas very large and heavy. This machine cost me a
full week's work to bring it to perfection.
^Jpril 28, 20. These two whole days I took up in grind-
ing*rny tools, my machine for turning my grind-ston^ per-
forming very well.
{April 30. Havingf*perceived that my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself
to one J)iscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy,
., #% l- In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the
tide being low, I saw something He on the shore bigger than
binary, and it looked like a.cask: when I came to i£, I
found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the w^eck of
l^,4vPjt .which were driven, on shore by the lat>e hurricane;)
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to,
66 APVENTJJKB& OP
lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined
the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it was 3
frarrej of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and die powder
was caked as hard as a stone: however, I rolled it farther oo
the shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near
as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the.ship, I found it strangely re-
moved. The. forecastle, which lay before buried inland*
was heaved up at least six feet: and the stern (which was
broke to pieces, and parted from the rest by the force of the
sea, soon after I had left rummaging of her,) was tossed, as
it were, up, and cast on one side j and the sand was thrown
so high on that side next her stern, that I could now walk quite
up to her when the tide was out j whereas there was a great
piece of water before, so that I could not come within a quar-
ter of a mile of the wreck without swimming. I was surprised
with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the
earthquake; and as by this violence the ship was more broke
open than formerly, so many things came daily on shore,
which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of je*
moving my habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that
day especially, in searching whether I could make any way
into the ship: but 1 found nothing was to be expected of that
kind, for all the inside of the ship was choaked up with sand.
However, as I had learned not to despair of any thing, I re*
solved to pull every thing to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding that every thing I could get from her would be of
some use or other to me.
May s. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together; and when, I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side which
lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a-flshing, but caught not one fish that 1
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going to
leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long
line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks; yet I frequently
caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which 1
dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck: cut another beam asun-
der, and brought three great fir-planks off from the decks;
which I tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide
of flood came on.
May Q. Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of
jjer, and other pieces of iron-work: worked very hard, and came
jtr Vety much tired* and had thoughts of §ivin? 'lt over-
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an indent
to work: but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut j that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose j and the inside of the hold lay so open
if C0Ul(i See int0 lt> but aImost ful1 °^ water and sand*
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water
and sand. I wrenched up two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck
for next day.
May <). Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way
wito the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened
them with the crow^ but could not break them up. I felt also
a roll of English lead, and could, stir it | but it was too heavy
to remove.
May 10, to 14. Went every day to the wreck j and got
a great many pieces of timber, and boards or plank, and two
or three hundred weight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut
a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it with the other j but as it lay about a foot and
f half in; the water, I cpuld not make any blow to drive .the
hatchet.
May i6\ It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I staid
so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented my going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolved to see what
they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy
for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day, to this day, 1 worked on the wreck j
and with hard labour I loosened some tilings so much with the
crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, anr-
two of the seamen's chests: but the wind blowing from th.
shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and
a- nogshead, which had some Brasil povk in it; but the salt water
and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day
fo the, uth of .June, except the time necessary to get food i
which I always appointed, during this part of my employment*
to be when the tide was up, that I might be ready .when it
was 'ebbed out: and by this time I had gotten timber, anA
plank, and iron work enough to have built a good boat, if 1
had known how: and I also got, at several times, and in several
pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-lead.
June 16\ Going down^to the sea-side*. I found a large torr
toiseA or turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems*
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scar*
city: for had I happened to be on the other side of the islands
I might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in he£
threescore eggs: and her flesh was to me> at that time, th$
most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life; haying
had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in th&
horrid place.
June 18. Rained all that day, and I stayed within. I
thought, at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat-
chilly; which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering* 3s if the. weather had
been cold.
June.20. No rest all night; violent pains in.my head, and
feverish*
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the;
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no helpj
prayed to God, for the first time since the storm off HulL;, bufr
scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all con?
fused.
June 22. A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions
of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and then a
violent head-ache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held me seyes*
hours -, cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26, Better; and having no victuals to eat, took m#
£un, but found myself very weak: however, I killed a she*
tt-oat, and with much difficulty got k home, and broiled som$
of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some*
broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all
day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready ,to perish fo£
thirst j but so weak, I had not strength to stand up, or to get
liSuT ^^7^Water *odnnk- prayed to God again, but was
krL \ and wllen x was not* l was s0 ignorant that I
Unon m°V t t0 sa^' m]y l^ and cried, ^ Lord, look
I en r 'r°r d> P^y me- Lord, have mercy upon me!"
fitP didnothing else for two or three hour,; till the
•nfeht^Kffj l feli asleep> and did not awake tiU *ar in the
wialr i * awo^e? * found myself much refreshed, but
mv x] , ^*cesding thirsty: however,, as I had no water ja
wLTf i habitati°n, I was forced to lie till morning, and
went to sleep-again. In this second sleep I had this terrible
om<vL: fought that I was sitting On the ground, on the
eartt °t X Wa*U' where * sat when the storm blew after the
cln i^Ua 'and *nat I saw a man descend from a great black
^ud, id a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground:
e was all over as "bright as^a flame, so that I could but just
ar to look towards him: his countenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe: when
ne stepped upoi^the ground with his feet, I thought the earth
trembled, just as ithad done before in the earthquake; and all
the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled
with flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon the earth,
but he moved forward towards me, with a long spear or wea-
pon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice
?? tajAle that it is impossible to express the terror of it: all
tV* ^an say I understood, was this: "Seeing all these
VJings have? not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt
aie5 at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that
wasm his hand, to kill me.
^ ?,b*6*at sta11 ever read this account, will expect that I
Bnould be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
T^h ' Vnean, tbat ev^n while *t was a dream, I even dreamed
°t those horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the
JSP|??8.s,on tftat remained upon my mind when I awaked., and
found ,t Was tut a dream.
th! ,adia-aS" no divine knowledge: what I had received by
. ?°f .instruction of my father was then worn out, by
an Uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wicked*
ness, and a constant conversation with none but such as were>
JiKe myself, wicked and profane tp the last degree: I do hot
remember that I had, in all that time, one thought that so
«?ycji as tended either to looking upward towards God, or in-
ward towards a reflection upon my own ways: but a certairi
cupidity of'soul, without desire cof good, or cpriscroUsnesi of
evil, had entirely Overwhelmed me; and 1 was'alt tha't'tlifc
most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our com-
mon sailors, can "be Supposed to beV not having the feast sense,
either of the fear of G6$} in danger, or of thankfulness to him,'
in deliverances.
In the relating what is already past bf my story, mis will be
the more easily believed, when I shall add, that through all
the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I
never had so much as one thought bf its'being the hand of
Godi or 'that it was a just punishment for my sin 5 'either rm/(
rebellious behaviour against my father, br my present sins/
which were great; or even as a punishment for the general
course of my wicked life. When I was on the' desperate ex-
pedition on the desert shores of Africa, I ndVer'had so much
as one thought bf what would become of me'3 or one wish to
, God to direct me whither 1 should £0, or*tb keep me from the!
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from vora-
cious creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite thoughtless
of a God or a Providence j acted like a mere brute, from'the
principles.of hamre,and by the dictates of cohimbri sense only;;
arid indeed liar'dly. that; t:'Whe'ri I was" delivered'and taken up
af/'sfca'by'the Portuguese captain, \vell tisedi aftd dealt witfi
justly 'and honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the'
least thankfulness"in my thoughts. When, 'again, I was ship*
wrecked ruined, arid in danger of drowning, on this island, I wa|
as far* frbhi remorse, or looking on it as a judgement :*I only said
to myself often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and, born to
be always miserable. .'**..',
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found ail my
shi^'crew-dro/wried, and myself spared,! was surprised with
a'kihci o? ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which/had'the
 
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of tlie'hand which
had preserved me, and had singled me out to be preserved
when all the rest were"destroyed, or an inquiry why Provi-
dence Had been'thus merciful to me: just the same common
sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they are gp't
safe ashore from a shipwreck; which tbey drown"all*in tjie
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as ,it is over^
and all the'rest of niy life was'like it. Even when Twas^
afterwards, on due consideration, rpade sensible of my condi-
tion,—ho\v I'was cast'on this dreadful place, out of the reach
<>f human kind, tout of all hope of relief, or prospect of re*
aeuipuon,-ras ^oonas :I saw but a prospect of living, and
«at-1 sbottfd not starve .and perish for.hungcr, all the.sense
or^my^affliction wonqoiF, and I began to be very.easy, applied
TTselt to^tbe works proper for my preservation and supply,
na was far enough from being afflicted at my condition,-as a
juagement'frorn Heaven, or as the hand o{ God against me ^
uiese were thoughts: which, rvery seldom entered into my head.
£ne growing tip of .tlie^om, as is hinted in-my Journal, had*
* *Jrst> some little influence .upon, me, and began to affect me
J^ttn seriousness,, as long, as I thought it bad something miracu-
usim it j but at soon as that part of the thought was removed^
jw^tfte.impression which wag raised from- it wore off also> -as
cttT?Je noted already-' £ven the earthquake, thougli nothing
J*ud be more terrible in its mature, or more immediately di-
eting to the invisibiejPower which alone directs such- things
/etnosoGnexiwasthe fright.over, but die*impression it.had
«aade.wentorTiaLspu,I hadaio moresense of'God,.or his1judge-
ments, opauch leas bfrthe preseiittafflictionuof myicirdtinistances
being.from his.hand; than if if had been hvthe most prosperous
condition of life. But .now, when I began to be sick, and a
Imsum dew of the miseries of death came to place itself be*
tore me * when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
*trong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the-violence
°* the fever v conscience, that had slept so long, began to
kW? } *nci * teproached myself with my past life, in; whichil
ad soTevidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the jits*
TkxL^°^ t0 ^ me under; uncommon strokes; and to deal
^»n\rie in so vindictive a manner.. Tliese 'reflections dppf ess>
«ame^for the second'or third day of my distemper:$ and in
tna violence, a* <well'of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches
^ my conscience, extorted from me some words like< praying
;?°J:; though 1 cannot say it was a prayer attended? either
»h desires o* with hopes; it was rather the voice :of. mere
nghtand distress. .My thoughts were confused $ the convic-
ions gniat-upoh my mind t and the horror of dying in such a
niiserable condition* raised vapotirs ih my head with the Vrtere
apprehension; and, in. these hurries of my*oul, I knew <ntfc
what my tongue ;might express; but tit was rather iexclama-
"on, such as, <* Lord, what a miserable creature am 11 If
^should be sick,<i $hall certainly>die for want of help5 and
2*W ^ill become of me V Then the tears burst out' of my
in* ^ I COulci say n° moi,ei to a £ood ^tok- In ^
yiterval, the good advice7of my father came to my mind, and
Presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning
pfrtkls,story, viz.., that if I did take this foolish sfep^^
would^hot bless me/; and I would haveleisure^ijereafp
*o, reflect upon having neglected his counsel,, when,Jij&
*night be .none to, assist, in my, recpveiy. ," KpwyV sai4;
ajpud,rSmy dear father's words are come to pass $ Qof*
jusjticeUiasovertaken.me, and I have none,to helgorhear fl»ej
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had. f ri>erei.fially:plJj
me in a station, pf life wherein I might have been happy'W
easyj but J would neither see it myself, npr5 learn from &1
parents to know the blessing of it, I left themrto mourn osf
my folly, and now I am left to mourn under the cqnsequenoe*
of it: I refused their help and assistance, who would h$*
pushed me in the world, and would have made every tbjngeas/
to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle with, too gre*1
for even nature itself to support; and nQ assistance, no comfpJ&
no advice .*', Then I cried out," Lord,»be my help, for I.am>
great distress/' This was the first prayer, ^ * may caB it &>
that I had made for many years. But I return to my Journal'
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the slejef
I had had? and the fit being 'entirely off, I got iips" and though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great> yet I cbnsi'
dered that the fit,of the ague would return again the next da^
and now was my time to get something to reiresh and supped
myself,when I should be ill. The first thing I,did.wasrto0
a large square ca'se-bottle with water; and set it upon my tabte
Sn reach t)f my bed: and to take off the chill or aguish dispo'
sitipn of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum int0
it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of tbc
goafs flesh;, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat Very txtifa
I Walked about; but was very weak, and withal very sad'ani
heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable Condition, dreading
the return of my distemper the next day. At night, I map
my supper of three of the turtle's*eggs$ which I roasted.in tp
ashes, and ate, as wecallit> in the shell: and this wasfthefifrf
bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to,, as I could ^
member, in my whole life. After I had eaten,, I tried to walfc?
but found myself so weak, that I could hardly carry the gO*
(for I never went out without that); so I went but a Httfc
way, and eat down upoathe ground, looking out upon the s&
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. -As >
sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me *,; WM
is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whenp
is it produced? And what am I, and all the other creature*/
wild and tame, human and brutal > Whence are we? Surely*
we are all made by some secret power, who formed tfa
SsS a"dsca' the air and sky. And who. is that? Then it
S'd^- tiaturally, it is,God" that has made all. Well,
th' ^fr1^?1*5 On' strangely, if God has made all these
* ew ?g^- ^S^Jdes and governs them all, and all things that con-
'J?f.y$> f0T the power that could make all things, must
c^^ a- P0Wer t0 SuWe and direct them! if so' nothing
v ffi^ ^ the great circuit/of his works, either without his
Kn^dge br appointment.
th > l Nothing happens without his knowledge, he knows
aff am nere, and am irr this dreadful condition: and if
w.,"^ "aPpen^ without his appointment, he has appointed all
t?ad '¥ b-fa11 me' Nothing occurred to my thought, to con-
ict any of these conclusions: and therefore it rested upon
jne with the greatest force, .that it must needs be that God
natn appointed all this to befall me j that I was brought to this
lWab]e circumstance by his direction,, he having the sole
, -Wj^r, not ofrfae only, but of every thing that happens in the
^ond, Mnlediately It jfollowed, Why has God done this to
»*. •*» \^Y,n^t w%Ve T done to be thus used? My conscience
-^P1?!^11-^ J^efikcfd"^'^ifr-jUJSt^inquir^; as if I had blasphemed 5'
..ana'm^thdught it spoke to me like a voice, Wretch! dost
thou kskSvhat thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful
r;mispenriife, and ask thyself, what thou hast not done? Ask,
:, why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert
M*V*0t dr°^ned in Yarmouth Roads j killed in the fight when
^ship was taken by the Sallee man of war; devoured by the
° n W beflSts on ^e coast of Africa? or drowned.here, when
^% l I °r^y l*e^aed but *nyself?: Dost thou, ask what thou
'* ,a-tjv^6r? J was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
L^^njshed, and had not a word to say; no, not to answer^ to
^^!p^n^an^ ^sing up pensive and sad, walked back to my
o/e}reat,^n<j went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed:
v?Ur*$y thoughts were;sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination
uM sleep ^ so I sat down in the chair, and lighted my lamp,
* ;<%?! ^oan to be^dark. Now, as the apprehension of there-
^Br? ofmy distemper terrified mc very much, it occurred to
,??yOT°FSnt, that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco
yOy ajrnost ,all distempers ;.and I hud a piece of a roll of tobacco
*.? onp °F the chests, which was quite cured 5 and some,-also
r that was green, and not quite cured.
^ £ went, directed! by Heaven no doubt: for in this chest I
*i0Und a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and
,.APund)What I looked for, viz. the tobacco -, and as the few.
MOpks I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the bibles
* *0Lv!* E
which I mentioned before, and which to this time 1 had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into. I say,
I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco'with me to
the table. What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as
to my distemper, nor whether it was good for it or not; but I
tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should
hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed
it in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost stupified my
brain j the tobacco being green and strong, and such as I had
not been much used to. 'Then I took some and steeped it an
hour or two in some rum, and /resolved to take a doze of it
when I lay down: and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of
coals, and held tny nose close over the smoke of it as long as I
could bear it; as well for the heat, as almost for suffocation.
In tile interval of this operation, I took up the bible, and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed with the
tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to me
were these: *' Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.*1 These words were
vieryx apt to my case; and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterwards 5 for, as for being deliveredy the word nad*
no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so
Impossible in my apprehension of things, that, as the children^06
Israel said when they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God]
spread a table in the wilderness?" so I began to say, "Can ev<?n
God himself deliver me from this place?" And as it was not for
many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailf d very often
upon my thoughts: but, however, the words made a great-
impression upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It*
now grew late; and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so
much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my iamp burning
in the cave, lest I should want any thing in the night, and went
to bed. But before I laid down, I did what I never had
done in all my life 5 I kneeled down, and prayed to)God to
fulfil the promise to me, " That if I called upon him in the day
of trouble, he would deliver me." After my broken and im-
perfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which f had steeped
the tobacco; which was so strong and rank of the tobacco,
that indeed I could scarce get it down: immediately upon this I
went to bed. I found presently the rum flew up'into my head
violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no move
till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three o clock in
the afternoon the next day: nay, to this hour I am partly ot
Robinson cvlvsos. 73
°pmiori, that I slept all the next day and night, and tillalniost
j ree lll<r &*Y after; for otherwise, I know not how I should
ose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it
appeared some years after I had done; for if I had lost it by
crossing and re-crossing the Line, I should have'lost* more1 than
ne day j but certainly I los$ a day in my account, and never
Knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the othetf,
w«en I awaked, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, andray
Spirits lively and cheerful: when I got up, I Wa* stronger than
was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry j
and, in short, I had no fit the next day, btft continued much
aueredforthe better. This was the 29th.
lab 301h was my well day, of course y and I Werit abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a se*
owl or two, sornething like a brand goose, and brought them
norne; but was not very forward to eat them -, sol ate some rriooi,
°r the turtle's eggs;, which were very good. This everting I
renewed the medicine, which I had supped did rrie good tKe
day before, viz. the tobacco; steeped iri rdm; only-1 did1 not
take so much as before, nor did! chew any of the leaf, or'Kbld
my hfe^d'over the smoke: however, I was riot so well the next
day, which was the 1st of July, as rhoped I should have been?
tor I had a little of the cold fit, but it was not rriuchi
Jury 2. I renewed the medicine all the three' ways'; arid
dozed myself with it as at first, and doubled die-quantity which
* drank. 
July a. 1 missed the fit for good and all, though I did1 ridt
^cover my full strength for some weeks aften While I was
thus* gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly utfoh
Uns scripture, « I will deliver thee;" and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of rny ever
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
thought^ it occurred to my mind that I pored so much Upon
^7 deliverance from the main affliction, that* I disregarded tli6
deliverance Iliad received; and I was, as it'were, made to ask
^yself such questions as these, viz. Have I not beeri deliver-
ed, and wonderfully too, from sickness; from the most dis-
tressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful to rtfe?
and what notice have I taken of it? Have I done my part? Gpd
«as delivered me, but I have not glorified him; that is to-gayV
1 have not owned and been thankful for that as a'deliverance:
and how can I expect a greater deliverance? Tills1 touclM
gjy heart very much j1 and immediately I knelr^oWn, alid^avfc
t^od thanks aloud for my recovery from my stekhess;
July 4. In the morning I took the bible; and beginning at
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed
<upon myself to read a while every morning and every nightf*
oiot binding myself to the number of chapters, but as long as
jny thoughts should engage me. It was not long after I set
•seriously to this work, that I found my heart more deeply and
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life. The
impression of my dream revived; and the words, "all these
things l>ave not brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in
my tho.ughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give me re-
pentance! when it happened, providentially, the very same day,
that, reading die scripture, I came to these words, " He is ex-
alted a Prince and a Saviour 4 to give repentance, aud to give
remission." I threw down the book j and with my heart a?
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus,
thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!" 'This
iwas die first time in all my life I could say, in the true sense
of the words, that I prayed; for now 1 prayed with a sense of
my condition, and with a true scripture view ophope, founded
on ihe encouragement of the word of God: and from this
lime, I may say, f began to have hope that Cod would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, "Gall
on me, and I will deliver thee," in a different sense from what
J had ever done before,; for then I had no notion of any tiling
"being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place,
jet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the
worst sense in the world. But now I learned to take it in
.another sense: now I looked back upon my past life with
such horror, und my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul
sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt
that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing j I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or
think of it j it was all of no consideration, in comparison with
this. Arid I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read
it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things, they
will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
liverance from affliction. But, leaving this part, I return to
my Journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as
to my way of living, yet rnuch easier to my mind: and my
thoughts being directed, by constantly reading the scripture and
praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal
of comfort within; which, till now, I knew nothing of; also,
*\ mj health and strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish
myself with every thing that I wanted, and1 make -my way
of living as regular as I could.
# From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a Tittle-arid a little
|t atime, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a
fit of sickness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low 1 was,
and to,what weakness I was reduced. The application which,
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what hid never
cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it to any orie
to practise, by this experiment: and though it did carry off the
«t> yet it rather contributed to weakening me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time:
A learned from it also this, in particular; that being abroad in
the rainy season was the most pernicious thing^o my health that
could be, especially in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms-,
so I found that^this rain was much more dangerous than the
rain which fell in! September and October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months':
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human
shape had ever set foot vmon that place. Having secured my
habitation^ as I thought, fully to my mind, T had a great desire
to make a move perfect discovery of the island, and to see
what other productions I might find, which I yet knew no-
thing of.'
It was on the 15th of July that I began t'o'take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself. I won't! up the creek first,
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I founds
after 1 came about two miles up, that the tide did riot flow
Any higher; and that it was no more than a little brook of
running water, very fresh and good: but this being the dry
season, there was hardly any water in some parts of it 5 at
least, not any stream. On the banks of this brook I found many
pleasant savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass: and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher
grounds (where the water, as it might be supposed, never over-
flowed,) I fonnd^ a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to
n great and very strong stalk: and there were divers other plants,
which I had no knowledge of, or understanding about, and
that might* perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could
not find out. I searched for the cassava root^ which the In-
7$ APVZHTV#l? f)J? .
dUnsyinali.&atclimate, make their bread of > but J could find
gpaewiJ s#w large plants of aloes, but di^wot understand
them. 1 saw several sugar-canes, but w\k$'y and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I .contended myself ^jth {hese dis-
cpveries fpr ,thi^,.tinier and qawe bacH, ,mpaing wjith myself
what course I,might take to .know the virtue and goodness
ofany<?f <the fruits or plants which I should discover;, but
could bring ;it to jnp, -conclusiojj; for, in short, I had made
so little obsecration while I was iu the BrasiLs, tiiat.I knew
little of the plants in the field; at least, very little that might
serve me to auy purpose now in my distress,.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again -t and
after going something farther than I had gone the day before,
I found the brook and the savannahs begin to cease,- and \hp
country become naore wpody than before. In this part I found,
different fruits j and particularly, I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon, the trees,: the
vin$S/ indeed, had spread over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now just in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them,
but I was warned by my experience to e,at sparingly of them;
remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating-of
grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. , I found, however,
an excellent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or dry
them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisin? are
kept j which I thought would be (as indeed they were) as whole,
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to.be had,
, I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my ha-
bitation } which, by the way, was the first night, .as I mig}^
say, I had Jain from home. At night, I took my first coijr
tnvance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well -s and the
next morning proceeded on my discovery, travelling near fp,ur
nnles, as I might judge by the length of the valley -} keepiijo-
Mill, due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north sides
of me. At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring
of fresh water, which issued,out of the side of the hill by me,
ran the other way, that, is. due east: and thp country appeared
so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every thing being in a con-
stant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it looked like a plaqted
garden. I descended a little on the side of that dejieiou^ vale,
6urveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my own-
that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and
had a nght of possession $ and, if I ?coutd <xmvey it, I 'might
nave it ]a inheritances completely as any lord of a manor in
^ngland. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, and orange,
lemon, and ritroh trees, htft -all wild, and very few bearing any
fruit; -at least, not then. However, the green limes that I
gathered were hot only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome j
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made it
very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing: I found now
1 |lad business enough, to gather and carry home; and I re-
solved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons
to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was
approaching. In order to this, I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, a lesser heap in andtber place, and a great
parcel of limes and melons in another places and, taking a
few of eacn with me, I travelled homeward j and resolved to
come again, and bring a bag or sack*, or what I couid make,
to <;ariy the pest- home. Accordingly, having ^pent ihree tlays
in this journey, I came 'home (so J must now cail my tent and
*tty cave): but before il gdt thither, the grapes wore spoiled 5
the richness b'f the fruits, and the weight of the juice, having
broken sand bruised them, they were good for little or no-
thing: as to die limes, they were good, but I could bring only
a 'few.
The next day^ being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was sur-
prised, when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so
rich and fine when I gathered them, I found them all sptffeafd
about, tr*od to pieces, and dragged about, some here1, sortie
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded
there were some wild creatures thereabouts which, had done
this, bin what they were I knew not. However, as I fourid
there was no laying them up in heaps, and no carrying them
away in a sack 5 but that one way they would be destroyed,
and the other way they would be crushed witlv their oWn
height-, I took another course: I then gathered a large quantify
of the grapfes, and hung them upon the out branches of the trees,
that they might cure and dry in the stin; arid as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as Tmany back as I c6uld "Well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with
|jreat pleasure the fruftmlrtess of that valley, and the pleasant-
ness of the situation j the Security :from storms'on that side; the
"water and the Wood: arid cbdduded "that I had pitched upon a
place to fix my abode In, which was by far the worst part of the
country. Upon the whote, I began t6 <cbnsider of Removing
my habitation, and to look out for a place equally, safe as
where I was now situate j if possible, in that pleasant fruitful
part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me: but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered
that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my advantage, and, by the
same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place ;*and though it was scarce
probable that any such tiling should ever happen, yet to enclose
myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the island,
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an affair not
only improbable, but impossible; and that therefore I ought not
by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured of this
place, that I spent much of my time there for the whole re-
maining part of the month of July 5 and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved, as above stated, not to remove -, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance
with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could
reach, well staked, and filled between with brush-wood. Here
I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together j
always going over it with a ladder, as before: so that I fancied
now I had my country and my sea-coast house. This work
took me up till the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick close to
my first habitation: for though I had made a tent like the
other, with a piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I had
not the shelter of a hill to keep m*» from storms, nor a cave be-
hind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my
bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August, I
found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun: sq I began to
take them down from the trees; and it was very happy that J
did so, as the rains- which followed would have spoiled them,
and 1 should have lost the best part of my winter food j for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sopner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them home, to
my cave, but it £egan to rain: and from hence, which was
the uth of August, it rained, more or less, every day till the
middle of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could
not stir out of my cave for several days. . ..: • ., •
KOBINSOV cnuibE. 8i
«* tliis season, I was much surprised with"the increase of my
™"y. ' I had been concerned for the loss of one of my catSj
J*ho ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead j and I
neardno more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home
^th three kittens. This was the more strange to me, because,
8 n !i -Ule end 0f AuSust> though I had killed a wild cat, as I
galled it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a different
*md from our European cats 5 yet the young cats were the
same kind of house breed as the old one; and both of my
cats being females, I thought it very strange. But from these
iree, I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I
jas forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to
five them from my house as much as possible.
K m tne'*4th of-August to the 26th, incessant ram; so
at * could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much
^et* In this confinement, I began to be straitened for food;
oat venturingout twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last
day, which was the 26 th, found a very large tortoise, which
Was a treat to me. My food was now regulated thus: I ate-
a bunch of raisins for my'breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of die turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for, to my great mis-
fortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing); and two
or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave: and by degrees
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the
««1 r and- made a door, or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall: and so I came in and out this way. But I wa$;
not perfectly easy at lying so open: for as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I*
thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that there
was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had'yet
seen upon the island being a goat.
September 3Q. I was now come to the unhappy anniver-
sary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my postj and!
T iunt* * k.ac* Dee" on shore three hundred and sixty~five days,
A kept this day as a solemn fast; setting it apart for religious
exercises prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious
humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgements upon me, and praying to him to have mer-
cy on me through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least;
refreshment for twelve hours* evcri till the going down of the'
sun,;l then ate a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to
be«i finishing the day as I began it. I had all this time observed
E2
no.spbbatb'4ayi-f0r as at first I had no sense of religion upon
my-mmd^I had, after sometime, omitted to distinguish the
weeks, by making a>longer notch than ordinary tor the sabbath-
day, and bo did not really know what any of the days were:
but now having cast up the days, as above, I found I bad been
there a year? sp I divided it into weeks, and set apart every
seventh day for asabbath: though I found, at the end of my
account, I had lo&t a day or two in my reckoning. A little
after this, my ink beginning to fail me, I contented myself to
Use it more sparingly j and to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life, without continuing a daily me*
morandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
£or them accordingly j but I bought all my experience before
I had it; and what I am going to relate was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I had made at all.
I have mentioned that 1 had saved the few ears of barley
and rice, which I had so surprisingly found sprung up, as I
thought* of themselves. I believe there were about thirty
sialics of rice* and about twenty of barley j and now I thought
it.a^prpper time to sow it after the rains 5 the sun being in its
southern position, going from me. Accordingly, I dug a piece
of ground, as well as I could, with my wooden spade 5 and
dividing>it into two parts, I sowed my grain: but,1 as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
sow it-all at first, because I did not know when was the proper
tjme for it j so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving
ajK>u,ta handful of each: and it was a great comfort to me
afterwards that J did so, for not one grain of what I sowed thfs
time came to any thing j for the dry month following, and the
earth having thus had no rain after the seed was sown, it had
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till
the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been bi;t newly sown. Finding my first seed did not gr<Hv,
which I easily imagined was from the drought, I sought for
'a moistet piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
up a piece of ground near my new bowe/, and sowed the rest
of my seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox.
This having the rainy month of March and April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but
haying only part of the seed Jeft, and not daring to sow all that
I bad, I got but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not
amounting to' above half a peck of each kind; But by this
BOBlNSOtt CfttftfOE. &S
Experiment I was made master of nty business-, rind kriefc-
exactly,when was the proper time to sow; and that I might
expect two seed times, and two harvests* every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery*,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as therainrWere
Over, and the weather began to settle, which was about 'the
*nonth of November, I made a visit up the country to rh£
bower j where, though I had not been some months> yet 1
found all thing* just as I left them. The circle or double
"edge that I had made was not only firm and entire, but the
Stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts-,
were all shot* out and grown with long branches, -as much as A
willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping *ts ***&!;
but I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see
tn& young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to
grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce credible how
beautiful a figure they grew into iii three years *. so that, though
the hedge made a fciircle of about twenty-five yards in dirimeter,
yet the trees, for such I might flow call them* soon covered it,
and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the
dry season. This made me resolve to cut some more stakes*
and make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall
(I mean that of my first dwelling),- which I did; and placing
the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yjfrds* dis-
tance from fny first fence, they grew presently; and were at
nrst a fine cover to my habitation, and aftehvafds served for &
defence also; as I shall oBserve in Ms order.
. I found'now that the seasons of the year might generally JSS
divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into tti£
rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally thus:
From the middle of February to the middle of April, faiby*
the sun being then on, or near, the equinox. From the middle
of April till the middle of August, dry; the sun beifig then
north of the line. From the middle of Align? t till the middle
of October, rairty; the sun being then come back itf the line.
From the middle of October till the middle of February, dry;
the sun being then to the south of the line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the
general observation I made. After I had found, by experience,
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I took care
to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might
**ot be obliged to go out; and I sat within door* as mucih as
possible during.the wet months. This time I found much
employment, and very suitable also to the time j for I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way, to furnish
myself with but by hard labour and constant application: par-
ticularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket,i but ail
the twigs I could get for the.purpose proved so brittle, that
that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage
to me now, that when I was a boy, I used to. take great de-
light in standing at a basket-maker's in the town where my
father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware; and being,
as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great observer
of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge,, of the
methods of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials j. when
it came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence
I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers, in England j and X resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country-house, as I
called it 5 and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found then>
to my purpose as much as I could desire: whereupon J came
the next time prepared with a hatchet to.cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there wa& great plenty of them. These
J set up to dry within my circle or, hedge; and when they
were fit for use, I carried them to my cave: and here, during
the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I
could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry
or lay up any thing, as I^had occasion for. Though I did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently;
serviceable for my purpose: and thus, afterwards, i took care
never to be without them -, and as my wicker-ware decayed*
I made more; especially strong deap baskets, to place my corn,
in, instead of sacks, when I should come ta have any quantity
of it. ( .. ,
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself! to see, if possible, how to
supply two other wants. I had no vessel to hold any tiling
that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of
rum; and some glass bottles, some of the common size, and'
others (which were case-bottles), square, for the holding of
waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil, any-
thing; except a great kettle, which I saved out of the .ship,,
and which was too big for such use as I desired it, viz- to make-
brmh, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing,
I would fain have had, was § tobacco-pipe 3 but it was Jm^
possible for me to make one; however, I found a Contrivance
for that too at last. I employed myself in planting my second
r°w of stakes or piles, and also in this wicker-working, all the
summer or dry season; when another business took me up
more time than it could be imagined I could spare.
. l mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island; and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to
where I had bailt my bower, and where I had an opening
°*uite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved
to travel quite across to die sea-shore, on that side: so, taking
mvgun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of pow-
der and shot than usual; with two biscuit-cakes, and a great
punch of raisins in my pouch, for my store, I began my
journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower stood,
as above, I ^me witliin view of the sea, to the west; and it
P^ng a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an
^land or continent I could not tell; but it lay very high,
lending from W. to W. S. W. at a very great distance;
Dy my guess, it could not be less than fifteen or twenty
leagues off.
I<could not tell what part of the world this might be; other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I
concluded, by all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions j and, perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where,
if I should have-landed, I had been in a worse condition than
* was now. I therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of Pro-
vidence, which I began now to own, and to believe ordered
every thing for the best; I say, I quieted my mind with this,
and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being
there. ><>
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered that
if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time
or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but
if not, then it was the savage coast between the Spanish coun-
try and the Brasils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst
of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not
to murder and devour all human beings that fall into their
hands. .
With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward j,
I found this side of the island, where I now was, much plea-
santer than mine; the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned
^ith flowers and grassy and full of very fine woods. I saw
abundance of parrots $ and fain would have caught one, if
possible; toJiave kepUt to be tame> and taught it to speak to
me. I ditl, after taking some pains, catch a young parrot j
for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having recovered it,
I brought it home: but it was some years before I could make
him speak; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly. But the accident that followed> though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes : but
they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met with 5
nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several.
But I had no need to be venturous: for I had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too 5 especially these
three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise. With
these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not havt?
furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the company;
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet Iliad great
cause for thankfulness; as I was not driven to any extremities
for food, but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled on this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and returns,
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place were I resolved to sit down for the night?
and then I either reposed myself In a tree, of surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes* set upright in the gfcftmd, either frorri
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come eft
me without waking rrie.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to feee
that 1 had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island:
for here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles j whereas, on the other side, I had found but thfefej in
a year and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowl*
of many kinds j some of which I had seen, arid some* of wfiich
I had not seen before, and many of them very good irieat^
but such as I knew not the names of, except those called Pen-
guins.
I Could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing
Of my powder and shot; and therefore had more mind to kill
a she-goat, if I could,'which I could better feed on. But
though there were many goats here, more than on my side
the island, yet it was With muchsmore diffictdty that l could
come near them j, the country being fiat and even, and thef
saw me much sooner than when I was upon-a hill.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter thari
jttirle j yet I had not the least inclination to remove y for as I
was ii^ed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I
seemed all the while I was here to. be as it were upon a jourr
Rey? and from home. However, I travelled along the sea-
shore towards the east, I suppose about twelve miles 5 and
1 ?settiag up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I con-
eluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
00k should be on the other side of the island, east from my
dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again: of which
a* its place. /
. -* t0°k another way to come back than that. I went, think-
•?g * c°uld easily keep so much of the island in my view, that
could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the
country: but I found myself mistaken; for being come about
two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hilis covered
^ith wood, that I could not see which was my way by any di-
rection but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very
well the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved
hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley j and'
uot being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncom-
fortable, and at last was obliged to find out the sea-side, look
for my post, and come back the same way I went; and then
by easy journies I turned homeward, the weather being exceed-
ing hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things
very heavy.
, In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid* and seized
^pon.it; and running to take hold of it, I caught it,and saved
it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home
if- I>t:ould; for I had often been musing whether it might not
be-possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame
goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot
Should be all spent. I made a collar for tins little creature,
and with a string which I had made of some rope-yarn, which
I always carried about me, I led him along, though with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.
;; I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
"^9 my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This
httle wapdering journey, without a settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own: house, as-1 called it to
mysehv was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that; and
u rendered every tiling about me so comfortable, that I re-
solved ~I would-never go a great way from it again, while1 ft
should be >my lot to stay on the inland. l '«'
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and T^gale^ myself
after my long journev: daring which,* mostofthe time was;
taken up in the weighty affair of making a chge for my Poll,
who began now to be more domestic, and to be mighty well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which 1 had penned within my little circle, and resolved to
fetch it home, or give it some food: accordingly I went, and
found it where I left it (for indeed it could not gef out), but
was almost starved for want of food. 1 went and cut boughs
of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw"
it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
away; but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no
need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog r and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle,
and'so fond, that it was from that time one of my domestic3
also, and would never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner
as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island?
fcaving now being there two years, and no more! prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments for the*
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was at*
tended with, and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks to God
for having been pleased to discover to me, that it was possible
I might be more happy even in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in the enjoyment of society, and in all the
pleasures of the world: that he could fully make up to me the
deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of human so^
ciety, by his presence, and the communications of his grace to
my soul j supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to de-
pend upon his providence here, and to hope for his eternal
presence hereafter. *,
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more-
happy the life I now led was, with all its miserable circum*
Stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led'all the
past part of my days: and now I changed both my sorrows and1
myjoys; my verydesires altered, my affections changed their-
guests, and my delights were perfectly new from what they
were at my first coming, or indeed for the two years past,
Before, as I walke&about, either on my hunting* or for view>>
ing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition woul4
break out upon me on a sadden* and my -vary heart/would die
Within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts
X Was m J and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eter-
nalbars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
Without xedemption. In the midst of the greatest composures
of my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm, and
make me wring my hands, and weep like a child: sometimes
u would take me in the middle of my work, and I would im-
mediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an
our or two together: this was still worse to me j but if I
could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it
Would, go-ofF; and my grief being exhausted, would abate.
imt now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I
daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts of it
*° my present state. One morning, being very sad, I opened
ne bible upon these words, " I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee:" immediately it occured that these words
Were to me; why else, should they be directed in such a
banner, just at the moment when I 'was mourning over my
condition,: as one forsaken of God and man? Well then, said I,
*f Goddoes not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it be,
or what matters it, though the world should forsake me 5 see-
ing, on the other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose
the favour and blessing of God, there would be no comparison
m the loss?
; From this moment I began to conclude in my mind, that it
was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken, soli-
tary condition, than it was probable I should ever have been in
^y other particular state in the world; and with this thought
1 Was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this
Place. I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind
at that thought, and I durst not speak the words. How canst
Jhoube such a hypocrite, said I, even audibly, to pretend to
b^ thankful for a condition, which, however thou mayest en-
favour to be contented with, thou wouldest rather prayheartijy
«> be delivered from? Here I stopped: but though I could
not,say i thanked God for being liere> yet I sincerely gave
tnanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting
Providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened the
bibb,, or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed God.for
d"*ectjng my jrien&in England, without any order of mine, to
pack It up among my goods; and for assisting me afterward
to save it out of the wreck of the ship, •-''.
Thus/and in -this disposition of mind, I began my thrri
fear; and though I have not 'given the reader the trouble d
so ^particular an account of my works this year as the first,
yet dn ^general it way be observed, that I was very seldom
idle-; but having regularly divided my time, according to the
several -daily employments that were before me-; such as, Ijrsty
My duty to God, and the reading the scriptures, which I con-
stantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly?,
Going iabroad with my gun for food, which generally took nie
up three -hours every morning, when it did not rain: thirdly,
Ordering, 'Curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed
or catohed for my supply: these took \ip great partot theday-,
also it is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, when
the isun was in the zenith, the violence-of the heat was to0
great totstir out; /so that about four hours in the evening was
all <he time I could be supposed to work in j with tins, ©x4,
Ception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting a&d
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad wifh
my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be addetf>
the exceeding laboriousness of" my work j the many hours
which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of ?kill, -ever?
thing I did took up out of my time: for example, I was full
two and forty days making me a board for a long shelf, wfoicft
I wanted in my cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools
and a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree which was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree !
was three days cutting down, and two more in cutting off thfe-
boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. Witft
inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides oi
it into^chips* till it was light enough to move; then I turned it)
and made one side of it smooth and fiat as a board, from end
to end; then turning that side downward, cut the other sid*H
till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, fltrf
smooth on both sides, Any one may judge the labour of riVt
hands in such a piece of work j. but labour and patience carried
me through that, and many other things: I only observe this
in particular, to show the reasion why so much qf fny tfrVifc"
went away with so little work, viz. that what might be a litt#
to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour, Yi'nd tequirrf
a prodigious time to do alone* and by hand. Notwithstanding
this, with patience and labour I went through man^ things i
sarv f* eve^T thing that my circumstances tnade neces-
j or nie to do, as will appear by what follows.
nerf^8 n°W in the montlls of November and December, ex-
nur dg mj Cr°P °f barley and rice' The Srt)Und J had nia-
mv °a ^^ u^ ^or tnem was not '£reat J *°r> as * observed^
y seed qf eaca was not aDOVe tue quantity of half a peck*
but one wlioje crop by sowing in the -dry .season:
founldT ^ ^r°^ Pronils^ veiT wc^ 5 when, on a sudden, I
sev l Was *n danSer °f l°osing lt aH agnm hy enemies of
fir ,sorts* which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as,
t-sV , £oats* and W»W creatures which I called hares/ who,
g^^S-^e,sweetness.of the blade, lay in it night and day, as
t;J* ?S lt,caiT1e up, and ate it so close, that it could get no
^e to shoot up imo stalk.
-l saw ho remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about
mWltn a hedge,, which I did with a great deal of toil y and tho
°|"e, because- it required speed. However, as my -arable
Qd was but small, suited to my crop) I got it tolerably well
enced in about three weeks time.; and shooting some of the
features in the day-time, I set >my dog to guard it in the night,,
£eing him up to a stake at the gate, were he would stand and
bark all night longj so in a little time the enemies forsook
the place, and the corn grew very strong and well, and began
<9 xipen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the
Jade, go .the birds were as likely to ruin me now,, when it was
n the ear: for going along by the place to seq how it throve,
saw my little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how
™any sorts, who stpod^ as it were, watching till I should be
gone,. J immediately let fly among them (for I always had my
pm with me) j I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a
tf tie cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among
^e corn itself.
This; touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a fewdays.
jttey would devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and
e).er be able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not
p: however, I resolved dot to lose my corn, if possible,
Plough I should watch it night and day. In the first place, I
€nt among it; to see what damage was already done, and
*°und they had spoiled a good deal of it i but that as it was
>'et too green for them, the loss was not so great, but that the
^niqinder was likely to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
*.staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if
they only waited till I was gone away y and th6 event proved ft
to be so) for as I walked off, as if gone, I was no sooner out of
their sight, than they dropt down, one by one, into the corfl
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have patience lo sta£ i
till more came on, knowing that every grain they eat noti'
Was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence? j
so coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three oj'
them. This was what 1 wished for; so I took them up, and
served them as we serve notorious thieves in England, viae*
hanged them in chains, for a terror to others, ft is impossibly
to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had; fot
the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short, the/
forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scare-crows hung there. This 1
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped
my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down i
and alt I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of
one of the broad swords, >or cutlasses, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. However, as my first* crop was bitf
small, 1 had no great difficulty to cut it down; in short, I1 reaped
it my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried i*
away in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it otf
with my hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I found
that out of my half peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice>
and above two bushels and a half of barley; that is tc- say, by
my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great encouragment to me; and I foresaw
thaf, in time, it would please God to supply me with breads
and yet here I was perplexed again; for I neither knew ho'^
to grind, or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean ^
and part it j nor if made into meal, how to make bread of it;
and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it: thesf
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity fof
store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the n'e#
season; and, in the mean time, to employ all my study s»$
hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. "V*.
is a little wonderfql, and what I believe few people have though
much upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necesj
sary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making, a*1"
finishing this one article of bread,
ynv'dlT ^ reduced t0 a mere stateof nature, found this to
ev4rvi l*COUrasenienl:' and was mademore sensible of it
whicl T eVGn attcr lhad Sot the first handful of seed-corn,
fiurn *' ^ bave sa*d> came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
shovel t a- • no P^0USn t0 turn UP the earth; n° spade or
spade t ^ **: we^> tbis * conaiuered* ty making a wooden
woode °bserVed before' but this did m^ work in buta
maK e.n manner; and though it cost me a great many days to
but mV ^Gt> *or want. °^ iron' lt not ordy wore out the sooner,-
How "^work the harder, and performed it much worse.
With ^^ **"* * bore wim' and was content to wor^ lt out
"VVh ijence> ana* bear with the badness of the performance.
to o-eU .Corn was, sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced
jt **° ov^r ^ myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over
row°* SCrat°k *t# as ** ma^ be cal*ed> ratlier man rake or bar-
aj '** When it was growing and grown, I have observed
^ eady how, .many tilings I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow,
 
_ „,• j^*.-- —« »«** w majx*^ 11 una uic^u, aim an oven to
^ke it; an4 yet all these things I did without, as shall be ob-
served; and the corn was an inestimable comfort and ad-
aiS g^t° m6: aU Ulis' as I said> made ever? thing laborious
Aft,tedious to me, but that there was no help for; neither
3? my time so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it,
anrfXt^ part °f Jt was ever? da? aPPointed to these works*;
a ia as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had
m^a£er quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
yse^lf wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
ensds proper for the performing all the operations necessary
^ making corn fit for my use.
to n°W * was t0 PrePare more lanc*; for I had seed enough
^ sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had.a,
^e*Vs. work at least to make me a spade; which, when it
_ Mone, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
quired double labour to work with it: however, I went
. ot*gri that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of
3n°|U?^* as nenr my bouse as * could *md *nern to my mind,
^ <* fenced them in with a good hedge; the stakes of which
jl ?N cut off that wood which I had set before, and knew
j. Would grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I.should
^l%e a quick Or living hedge, that would want but little repair,
1Js work took me up full three months; because a great part
,of the time was hi the wet season, when I could not go abroad*
Within doors, that is, when it raiued, and I could not go oat)
I found employment on the following occasions -, always ob*
serving, that while I was. at work, I diverted myself with talk*
ing to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I quickly
learned him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, Poll.; which, was the first word I ever heard
spoken in the island*by any mouth but my own. This? ther£'
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for now'*
as T said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows:
I had long studied, by some means or other, to make myself
some earthen,vessels, which indeed 1 wanted much, but kntTtf
not where to come at them: however, considering the heat ol
the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any ciay, f
might botch up some such pot as might, being dried in the sufl>
be hard and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold an?
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so j and as tins was
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the thing
I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit
only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into therri*
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at rne>
to tell how many aukward ways I took to raise this pastil J
what odd, mishapen, ugly things I made j how many of then*
fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enoug!1
to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over violerrt
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fbU
in pieces with only removing, as well before as after they wetf
dried: and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and worK
it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly things Q-
Cannot call them jars) in about two months labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, *
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in V#°
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them;
that they might not break; and as between the pot and tW5
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of tbe
rice and barley-straw; and these two pots being to stand &
Ways dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps tl*6
meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large p#*i
yet I made several smaller things with better success) sue*1
as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and aitf
thing my hand turned to -t and the heat of the bun baked thW
very hard.
But all thjs would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none; of
these could do. It happened some time after, making;a pretty
large firq for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after
I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one- of my
earthen-ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a st'pne, and
red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it j and said to
niyself, '-that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if
they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to- make it
Jwn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such.as the potters
wn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead
to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins and two or
three pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-
wood all rouud.it, with a great heap of embers under them.
1 Plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon
^ top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through,
and observed that they did not crack at all: when I saw them
cJear red, I lot them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
Ml I found one'of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
^n; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted }>y
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots be-
^jan to abate of the red colour; and watching them all night,
'jhat I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I
tad three v£ry good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and
^'0 other earthen pots, as hard.burnt as could be desired; and,
°ne of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sandi
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort
of earthen-ware for my use; but I must needs say;,.as to the
shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as.any one may
suppose, as I had no way of making them but as the chil-
dren make dirt pies, or as a woman would mike pies that
uever learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
ptinc, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bc?nr the fire j and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
c°ld, before? I set one on the fire again, with some water in it,
toboilme some meat* which it did admirably well; and with
a piece of alud I made some very good broth; though I wanted
Qafcmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to make it so
6°Qd as I would have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar .to stamp orlreat
some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of ax-
96 AOYEtt^THlJS QF
riving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. , T<>
supply this want I was at a great loss \ for,;^f" all'hades in t|ie
world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a'stdri^-cuttef as fot
any whatever; neither had I any tools togo/abou^it with'. 1
spent many a day to. find out a great stoiie Wg enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could find none at all?
except what was in the solid rock, and which 1 ha<i noVay
to dig or cutout: nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling Stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand: so, after a
great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over,
and resolved to look out a great block of hard wood, which 1
found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet; and then, with'the help bf fire, and
infinite labour,. made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brasil make their1 canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood; and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next Crop of com, whejn
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn info
meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to dre)5
my meal, and to part it from die bran and the husk/without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. \Tnis
was a most difficult' tiling, even but to think on; for f had
nothing like the necessary thing to make it; I mean fine tliin
canvas or stuff, to search the meal through. Herer^as/at
a full stop for many months; nor did I renlly know wh'atrto' <J6;
linen I bad none left, but what was mere rags j I had goats4*
hair, but neither knew how to weave it or spin it; and had X
known how, here were no tools to work it with: all thb re-
medy I found for this was, at last recollecting I had, ariibfigf the
seamen's clodies which were saved out of the ship, some neck-
cloths of calico or muslin, with some pieces of these I made
three small sieves, proper enough for the work; arid'tfutsl
made shift for some years: how I did afterwards, I shall shoW
in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered^ apd
how I should make bread when I came to have corn: fi|r,
first, I had no yeast: as to that part, there was no supply
ing the want, so I did not concern myself much about it; but
for an oven I was indeed puzzled. At length I found out1 an
expedient for diat also, which was this ^ I rnacfe some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about two feet
qiameiery and npif:aBdve nine inches deep r*ihesert burnedin
t ^V?5 ^a* 4°™^ the dther/and laid them by ;"and wiien
* wantedvtQbaKe/l made a greatffire upon my hearth, which
I had paved" with some square tiles,* of my K)wn' making'and
burhlng-also;-but I should'Uot call them square. :' ""
Wneh'meftre-wbod1 was bailed ihto'embersi or*live coals,
I drew them forward upon the hearth1, so as to cover it'all
overhand tlie:fe let them lie till tlie hearth was very hot * then
sweepingaway all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves,
and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the1 embers all
rpund the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat;
and, thus,"as Veil as m the best oven in the world, I baked my
Jttwejr loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-cook
into the bargain j for11 made myself several cakes and pud-;
dings of the rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into
them except the flesh of fowls or goats.
., It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up
niosi: part of ttie.third yeaPof my abode here j for, it is to
^e observe'd^'in ^the'mtervalsof these things, I had my new
Harvest,arid' husbandry to manage: I reaped my corn in its
season^and'carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up
in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out;
for I had no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it
.with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really
Ranted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay'it
up m;; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much,
wait "I had pf the'barley about twenty bushels, and of rice; as>
^uch,;^r mbreV insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use
it ,freety; For my breafd^ad been quite gone a great while:
|Tesoived'aIso to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
.^whole year, and to sow but once a-year.
;,Pponthe whole, I found that thfc forty bushels of barley
and rice we're rriucl* more than I cOmU consume in a year j
soX resolved to sow[ jusb the 'srfme" Quantify every year that I
sowed the last, in. hopesthat such b quantity would fully pro*
^demewithbreaS, &c.''
All the .while these things were doing, you may be sure my
tKou^hts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I
h|d seen from tee other side of the island; and I was not
Without some.secret wishes that I was"on shore there; fancy-
Jug, that seeing the main land, and an inhabited country, I
mJgHt find s6me way 6r other to convey myself farther, and
perhaps ^t last find 'soriW meansof escape. *''•
vol. 1. F
9& . AW***wr*s i***
, vW{&lJ4W^wHleJ mad<? no allowance .fop. (be* dangers^of
$u(*h a condition, and $at j; might fall into ftef hands of savages,
^arid perils such as, I might Ijave reason to thinltfax worse than
the lions and tigers of Africa; that if I once came, jn their
power, I should run a, hazard of more than a, thousand? to-one
of being,^illed,|and perhaps of being eaten;, |br I^ad jlfar^
that .the people of the Caribbean coast were, cannibajs^ prfrn^nr
waters; and I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be &
off from that shore. , Then supposing they w^re.not.cajin.ilwisp
yet that they might lull me, as they had n>any Europeans^whp
had fallen into their hands, even when, they have, beenftpnF#r
twenty together; much more I, who was but one, and coujd
make little or no defence; all these things, I say, w,hich;it
ought to have considered well of, and did cast upjn niy thoughts
afterwards, took up none of my apprehensionsa^ first;, ^et my
Iiead ran mightily upon the thought of getting oyer, to^the
shore. . .' . ;,•;'., /T
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat withjJ)£
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed abovea thousand
miles on the coast of Africa;, but this-was in vain: 'then,}
thought I wpujd go apd lqok at our ship's boat,, which, af -J
have said, was bjown.up upon.the shore-a great, way, in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay -nearly, where
she did at first, but not quite; having turned,,,by the force,of
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward, against a'high
*idgerof beachy rough sand; but no water about her, as before*
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have launched
her into the water, the boat would have done verywell, and I
might have gone back into the Brasils with her easily Enough *
but.I might have foreseen, that I could no more turn her and
set her upright upon her bottom, than J could remove,the,
island: however, I went to the woods, and cut levers apci l1
rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
could do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down> and repair the damage she had received, she would
be a vary good boat, and I might venture to sea in her, . T.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent,.! think, three or four weeks about it: at last, finding
it impossible to heave her up with my little strength, I fell jtp.
digging *away the sand, to undermine her, and so to make heir
fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide her righf
in the fall. .'
But when Iuad done triis, I was unable to stir hei; up agajiv
or to get under her, much less to move her forward towards the
^^Trsk Iwas forced to give it bVer': aridy&, though I gave
'pyfer the hopes of the boat, my Idesird'to Venture ov'er thfc main
'increased; rather than diminished, ?as the' means for it Seemed
ira|»o^ibIe;' ,  ; .-; ,-.
: r°At length, T began to think whether it was not possible to
iraKe myself a canoe, or perjagua, such as the natives of those
^climates make, even without tools, 6t, as I might &y, without
hands, 6f the trunk-of a great tree. This I not only thought
Possible- but easy, and pleased myself dxtremely With the idea
^f making it, arid-with my having much more convenience
foHtthah anjrof the negroes or Indians; but not at all con-
s*dering ^e parrtcular inconveniences which I lay under more
*han the Indians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into
™ water \vhtnit was made, a difficulty much harder for me
j^ surmount Tthan all the consequences of want of tools could
^t6thenft: ibr what could it avail me, if, after I had chosen
n*y tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and might be able
^ith my tools itbliewT and dub "the outside into the proper shape
pf ^boat, ^nd'lyurn br"^t o^ it hollow, so
as t6*make*£ fcbatbf it* if, afterall this, I must leave it just
whereTfbn'ndit, and was not able to launch it into tfye water?
'^e'vvould imagine, if I had had the least reflection upon
rify niinrd of rhy circumstances while I was making this boat,
I'should have immediately thought how I was to get it into the
sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage in it,
thatT never once considered how I should get it off the land}
Qnct it was rea'll^, in its own nature, more-easy for me to guide
ft btfer forty-five mile's of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of
Md^WterBlLilaf, to iset it afloat in the water.
l'rT wenfitf work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
wiah'Bid", \Vho had iny of his senses awake. I pleased myself
With the* design, without determining whether I was able to
undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my boat
^le^ often into my head ^ but I put a stop to my own in-
quiries into it, by this foolish answers Let us first make It;
* "warrant I win fin(j some \Vay or other to get it along when it
"done.
'This was a rrfost preposterous method'; but the eagerness of
% fancy prevailed; and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree,
3|M P'question much whether Solomon ever had such a one'fo*
unbuilding of the Temple at Jerusalem 5 it was five feet ten
'nclies diameter at the lower part next the stump, and foui
^eleven inches "diameter at the end of twenty-two fee*.
whenMf lessened, and then parted into branches, it wasnot
without infinite labour that. I felled this tree; I was twenty
<Jays hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more
getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading head of;
it cut off: after this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub
it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom pf a boat,
that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near-
three months move' to $lear the inside, and work it out so as to
make an e&ict boat of it:' tln>I did, indeed, without firc> by
mere mallet and chissel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough
to have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely de-
lighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than.ever I
saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my,life.
Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure $ and there
remained nothing but to get it into the water 5 which, had I
accomplished, I make no question but I should have begun the
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, -that
ever was undertaken. .,; .
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though
they cost me inexpressible labour too. It layabout one hundred
yards from the water* and not more; but the first inconve-
nience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take
away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of
the earth, and so make a declivity: this I begun, and it cost
me a prodigious deal of pains 5 (but who grudge pain* that have
their deliverance in view ?) when this was worked through,
and this difficulty managed, it was still much the same, for
I could no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut
a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began
this work 5 and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate
how deep it was to be dug, how-broad, how the stuff was to be
thrown out, I found, by the number of hands I had, having
none but my own, that it must have been ten or twelve years
before I could have gone through with it; for the- shore lay
so high, that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty
feet deep; this attempt, though with great reluctancy, I was
at length obliged to give over also.
This grieved me heartily 5 and now I saw, though too. late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
Wor^ we judge rightly of our,,owq strength to..go. through
Xn the, middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this
place,,* -and kept my anniversary with the same devotfon> and
WlT* tommch comfort as before 5 for, by a constant study and
^ijons application to the word, of God, and by the assistance
p^fiis .grace, I gained a different .knowledge from what 1 had
^ ore> £ entertained different notions of tilings j I looked now
^^'•^world asia thing remote; which I had nothing to do
~*> no expectation from, and> indeedy no desires about: in a
YQF~> * **ad nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have j
.ought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter,
1Z* ^ a place I had lived in, but was come out of it$ and
well <might;I say, as father Abraham to-Dives* " Between me
flnd thee is a great gulf fixed."
•'In the first place, I was here removed from all the wickedness
w the world? I had neither the lust of the fleshy the lust of
*** eye, not the pride,pf life. I had nothing to covet, for I
had, all thajt/I Was s*>prt capable of enjoying: 1 was lord of the
**l*ole> manor,?; oti if I pleased, I might call myself king or
emperor over the whole country which I had possession of;
ttoe- were no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute so-
*enagiity or command with me > I might have raised ship-load-
ings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let aa little grow as
X thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or turtle
enough, but now and then one was as much as I could put to any
Ufe: 1 ^d timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and
i had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet, when it kid been built.
•'•-But-all Iicould make use of was ail that was valuable: I had
enough to eat and to supply my wants, and what was the re*t
to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must
eat-it, or vermin 5 if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it
*nust be spoiled j the trees that I cut down were lying to rot
on; i the ground; I could make no more, use of them than for
fafcl, and that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food.
1 llh a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to
n*&x upon just reflection, that all the good things of this world
are of no farther good to us than for our use 5 and that whatever
Ve may neap up to give others, we enjoy only as much as we
fcan use, and no more*' The most covetous griping miser in
™ world would have been cured of the vice of covetousness,
*f he- had been in myt case; for I possessed infinitely more than
I knew what to do with> I had no room for desire, except it
wapfgr things which I had not, and they were comparatively
buf trifles, though, indeed, of great use to me. 1 had, as 1
hinted before, a parcel of money, as veil gold as silver, about,
thirty-six pounds sterling: Alas! there the* nasty, sorry, use-
less stuff lay: I had no manner of business for it'j" and I often
thought within myself, that I would have given a handful of it
for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grjiid my
corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of tur-
nip and carrot seed froni England, or for a handful of peas and
beans, arid a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least ad-
vantage by it, or benefit from it; but there it lay In a drawer,
and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons;
and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case,—they had been of no manner of value to me,
because of no use.
I had now brought my state x>f life to be much more com-
fortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to meat
with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's providence,
which had thus spread my table in the wilderness: I learned
tolook more upon the bright.side of my condition, and less
upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed, rather
than what I wanted: arid this gave me Sometimes such secret
cornforts, that I cannot express them; and which I take nptice
of here, to put those discontented people in mind of it, who
cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them, because
they see and covet something that he has not given them. All
our, discontents about what we want, appeared to me to spring
from the want of thankfulness for what we have.
. Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
wouty be,so x\q any one that should fall into such distress as
mine was $ an<J. tliis was, to compare my present condition with
what I at first expected it would be; nay, with what it wpuJcC
certainly have been, if the good providence of God had not
wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore,
where I not only could come at her, but could bring what ,£got
out of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort j witjiout.
which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for deferice.,
and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing
to myself, in the most lively colours, how Lmustjiaye^ acted if
X had got nothing out of the ship. I coujd not have so much
as got/any food,, except fish and turtles $ and that, as, jt was \
long before I found any of them, I must have perished; that
I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage;
HOBIN30N CRXJ90E. 1OT
^UfAMdkUle^a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had
Jf>-^a3r,tirflay or open it* or part the flesh from the skin and
^H^wefo or.to.qut it up-j but must gnaw it with my teeth,
an^pu|Urt with .my clawsylike a beast.
•. -vMjese reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of
_ rqvidence to me, and very thankful for my present condition,
^all its hardships and misfortunes: and.this part also I
?ar>nqt but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt,
^ their rnjsery*jq: say,, " U any affliction like mine?" Let
^i consider how much, worse the cases of some people are>
an^th.eir case might have been, if Providence had thought fit
""^.aijtpAher reflection, which assisted me also to comfort
my jp^nd with, hopea; and this was, comparing my present
£°»ditfon >^th what I had deserved, and had therefore reason
Jp expect from the hand of Providence. I had lived a dread-
?!  fe P^ffectly, destitute of, the knowledge and fear of God.
J. had been well instructed by father and mother; neither had
they been wanting to me, in^their endeavours to infuse an early
rejigious awe of, GJ°# into my, mind, 3 sense qf my duty, and
What(t{i$ nature^n^nd.of,my being required of mo. But,
2jas,!, falling^ early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is
tie .most destitute of the fear of God, though his terrors are
always before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life,
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion,
which I had entertained was laughed out of me hp my mess-
mates; by a hardened despising of dangers, and the views of
death, which grew habitual to me *, by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with,any thing but what
was like myself, or to hear any thing that was good, or tending
towards it.
; %v9^ w£s I of every thing that was good, or of the least
sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliver-
ances I enjoyed, (such as my escape from Sadlee, my bein^
^H—^P % the Portuguese master of a ship, my being plant-
ed so well in the Brasils, my receiving the cargo from Eng-
Jand^ and the like,) I never had once the words/'? thank God,"
jS.PW* as °n my mind, or in my mouth $ nor. in the greatest
distress had I so, much as a thought to pray to him, Nor so
much as to say, u Lprd, have.roercy uppn; me!" no, nor to
mention the name of Gpd* unless it was to swear by, and bias-"
pheme it. 'J' •••.-
, I had terrible refjectiqn^ upon my mind, for many months,.
Sii e ^^y.pbseYVc&t on', account of my wicked arid.
a%vtened life pastV and when I looked about me* and consU
104" ADyPNTtT^ES OP
dered what particular providences bad attended me since my
coming into this, pkce, And hpw God had dealt bountifully
with me,i-*had not only punished me less thaiv my iniquity had
deserved, but had so plentifully provided'for me,-—this gave me
great hopes that ray repentance was- accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in store for me. •*
Withthese reflections, I worked my mind upy not only to
a resignation to the will of God in the present disposition of
my circumstances, but even < to a sincere thankfulness for my
condition; and that I, who wa* yet a living man, ought not to
complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to* have
expected in that place, that I ought never more to repme at
my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that
dairy bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders could
have brought; that I ought to consider I had been fed by a
miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay,
by a long series of miracles: and that 1 could hardly have
named a place in the uninhabitable part of the world where I
could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where,
as I had no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so
I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves Or tigers, to
threaten my life; no venomous or poisonous creatures, which
I might feed on to my hurt; no savages, to, murder and de-
vour me. In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way,
so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to
make it a life of comfort, but to make myself sensible of Gt>d*s
goodness to me, and care over me in this condition; and after
I did make, a just improvement of these things, I went away,
and was no more sad, -'* .
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted, and near spent.'
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but
a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little*,
till it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of black upon
the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute
down the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened to me: and> first, by casting up times past, I re-
member that there was a strange concurrence of days in the
various providences which befel me, and which, jf I had been
superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunatd, I
might have had reason to have Iooke4 upon with a greatdeal
of curiosity.
ROBXUSaW CHt*6£. 105
Rm, 1had-observed, thatthe^s»me da? tlia€ Ibrake away
!rom ^7 father and my frieflds, aad fart «#ay to Htttt, <ih ofdfer
101 g° to. sea, the same day after watfds I was take** by the Sallee
wan-.of war, and made & slave: the same day :6f the -yetif that
^escaped>0ut of the wreck of the: shipitVYarmouth Road^,
that same day-year afterwards 1 made m^ escape1 from Bailee
in the boat i and the same day <>f thefyear I wa£bortiori, viz.
the 3oth of September,- that same day I had my life so mira-
culously saved twenty-sbc years after, When I was east on shore
m this island r so that my wicked life and my solitary life be-
P^both on one day.
xhe next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
T?2^ * mean the biscuit which I brought out 6f the ship*;
Uus * had: husbanded to the last degree, allowing' mys&f bin
°ne cake of bread a day for above a year y and yet I was quite
Without bread for hear a year before I got any corn of my own;
and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all,
the getting it being, as has been already observed, next to mi-
^culous. - * > -
My clothes* too/ began to decay mlghtrly: as to linen, I
Had none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which
I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I care-
fully preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on
but a shirt j and it was a very great help to me that I had, among
all the men's clothes of the ship, atoost.three dozen of shirts.
There were also, indeed, several thick Watch-ooats, of the
seamen's which were left, but they were too hot to wear;
and though it is true that the weather was so violently hot thdt
there, was< no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite na&id,
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor
could I abide the thought of it, though I was all alone. The
reason, why I could not go quite naked was, I could not bear
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some
clothes .on \ nay, the very heat frequently blistered my sfon:
whereas, with a shirt on, die air itself made some motion, and
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than' without it'.
No more could I ever bring myself to go oiit in the heat of
the^unx without a- cap* or hat 5 the heat of the sun ^eating
with such violence as it does in that place, would give me
the head-aeh presently, by darting so directly upon my head,
without a cap or hat oit, so that I couldrtot bear it; whereat
}f I-put on, my hat, it would presently go away.
"Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had,, which I called clothes, into some order*} I
F2
%06 ,* Am^xu^m px^
had.worn rout all, the, waistcoats I. had>.and wiy businesses
now tp try.if I could n,ot make jacketsq\U of thegrea^ watch*
icoats that i liai by me, aqd with such other,materials as I had?
£9 Lset.tofwork,a tajlorjng* pr rather, indeed,, a botching, fPr
I made\ most pjteous wprk^pf it. , However, I made -shift ta
mal^e two or three new-waistcoats, which I hoped would seiY®
me a. great while:; as, for breeches or drawers, I made but^
very sorry.^hift indeed, till afterwards. v
, I haveauentioned, that I saved theijskins of all the a^atures
that X killed, I mean four-footed ones j and I had hung .then*
up, stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some
of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little,, but
others I found very useful. *f he first thing I made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside, to
shoot off the rain j and this I performed so well, th,at after
this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of the skins, that is to
say, a waistcoat, and breeches,v open at the knees, and both
loose j for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than
warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, J. was a worse
tailor. However, they were such as I made very good shift
with » and when I was abroad, if it happened ;to rain, the hair
of my waistcoat and cap being uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time and,pains,to make
me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of one, and ha$l
a great mind to make one j I had seen them made in the IJra,-
sils, where they were very useful in the great heats which^ are
there; and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox: besides, as I was obliged tp,be
much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the
rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make any thing likely to hold } nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before
1 made one to my mind 5 but at last I made one that answered
indifferently well j the main difficulty 1 found was to make it
to let down: I could make it spread, but if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it was not portable for. me any way but just
over my head, which would not do. However, at last,, as f.
said, I made one to answer, ana* covered it with skins, the hair
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept
off the sun. so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest
of the weather with greater advantage than 1 could, before in
the coolest; and when I had no need of it, could close it, and
carry it under rny arm.
,'.Tftti^l lived mighty comfortably, m/mirid'beirig'entifTety
composed by resigning to the will of God> and throwing; mjr.-
self wholly upon the disposal of hisT providence. ! This made
toy life better than sociable5 j for when I began to regret the*
^ant of conversation; I lwould at"sk rriyself, whether thus con-
versing mutually with my own thoughts, and, "as I hope t may
say, with even' God himself, by ejaculations; was not better
ban the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world >
-I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary
jjmg happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in
e sarne posture and place, just as before; the chief things. I
Xvas employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my barley
ancl rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always kept
up just enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provision
beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily
Pursuit of going out with my gun, I had one labour, to make
toe a canoe,' which at last I finished: so that by digging a
panal to it-of six feet wide,' and four feet deep, I brought it
toto the icreek1, alrnbst half a mile. As for the first, which
was so vastly tiigi!asTmade it without considering beforehand,
as:I oiight to'doi how I should be able to launch it, so, never
being able to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it,
I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed, the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place
where I could not get the water to it at any less distance than,
as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it was practicable
at last, I never gave it over: and though I was near two years
about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having'a-
boat to go' off to; sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view when I made the first; I mean, of venturing over' to
the terra Jirma, where it was above forty miles abroad; accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end' to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat,
thy next design was to make a cruise round the island; for as
I had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
Jn that little1 journey made me very eager to see other, parts of
the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.  ''" ''
''Fortius purpose^ that I might do every thing with discretion
a»d consideration, I fitted up a little mast in rriy boat, arid
1 OS AI> VENTURES-?QJ£
.ma/ieja sail to it out qf some of the pieces of the ship's sails
whjch kym store, and,of which, Jt had a great stock by m^
Irving. Med my mast and sail^and trieoVtJie. hoar, I i<mt}$
spe would sail very well; then; f made: little lockers, or boxes?
at ejch end of my boat, to pujt proyisiona, necessaries, ammu>«
.qitibn,. &c. into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the, spray
.pf the^sea \ and a little long hollow place I cut lathe inside. P*'
the boat, where I could Jay my gun, making a flap to han£
down over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat .of the sun oft* me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the
little creek. At last, being eager to view, fche-circumference of
my little kingdom,! resolved upon my cruise^ and accordingly,
I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in. two, dozen of
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of,)
a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for kill'
ing more, and two large watch-coats, of those, which * as I
mentioned before, I had saved out qf the, seamen's chests j
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the
night.
It was.the 6th of November, ia the sixth, year of my reign,
or my captivity,. which you please, that I sqt out on tins .ijojf-
age,^an,4 I found it much longer than I expected; for though
the island itself was not very large, yet when I came to(the
east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about
two leagues into the sea, some above water, some under it j
and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league, more,
so that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double
the point.
when first I discovered them, I was going to give over .my
enterprize, and come back again, not knowing haw far \t might
oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, doubting how X
should get back again j so I camp to an anchor „ for , I had
made me a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore,
climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook,that poujr,
where I,saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, Lpcrr?
curved a strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to
the east, and even came closs to the pointy and J took, the mgre
j^lce Y *tj becau^ * saw there might be some danger, that
^. en X came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
j *?nStn °f it, and not be able to make die island again: and,
deed, had I not got first upon tins hill, I believe it would
J^ pen so; for there was the same current oh the other
_ae-the island, only that it set off at a farther distance, and
saw there was- a strong eddy under the shore > so I had no-
ing to do- but to-get out of the first current, and I should
P***% be in an eddy.
lay hfcre^ uowever> two days, because the wind blowing
P^tty fresh at E. S. E. and that being just contrary to the
atojfcurrent, made a great breach of the sea upon the point;
•° that It was libt safe for me to keep too dose to the shore,
°rJr° breach; nor to go too far off, because of the stream.
.The third day; inthe morning, the wind having abated over-
JS"t, the sea wascalmy and'I ventured: but I am a warning-
piece again to all rash and* ignorant pilots; for no sooner was
* come to the- point, -when ffwas not even my boat's length
from the shore/but rfoundmyiffelf in a great depth of water,
a*id a current like the sluice of a-mill} it carried myhoat along
with itAvith'such violence, that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on my left
band. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could
do with my paddles signified nothing: and How I began to
give myself over for lost \ for as the current was or* both sides
of* the island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must join
againV rind then I Was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see apy
possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect .before me
but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough*
but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on
the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into'
the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say,
°nc of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven
nUo^he vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no
toarn land or island, for a thousahd leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse.
Now! looked back-upon my desolate solitary island, as the
j^bst pleasant place in the World j and all the happiness my
heart could wish for was to be but there again. I stretched
oufrny hands to it, with eager wishes: <f O happy desert!"
s^j£% " * shall never see thee more. O miserable creature!
thither am I going!*1 Then I reproached myself with my
unthankful-temper? tfnd how I had repined at? rny solitary eotf*
dition; and now what would I give to be on shore there* agairU
Thus we never see the tme state of our condition tiii ifis-tfr
lustrated to us by its contraries* nor know how to value wh^
we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible &
imagiue the consternation I was now in, being driven from my
beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into'the
wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in die utmost despair of
ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till indeed
my strength was:almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much
to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current which
the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind
in my face, springing up from the S. S. E. This cheered my
heart a little, and especially when, in about half an hour more,
it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I was got at *
frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloudy of
hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way too J
for I had no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I had but once lost
sight of it; but the weather continuing clear> 1 applied myself
to.get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing,away to
the north as much as possible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and< the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some
alteration of the current was near j for where the current was
so strong, the water was foul j but perceiving the water clear>
I found the current abate; and presently I found to. the east,
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some, rocks t
these rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as
the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rock3
to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
north-west, with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going
to murder them, or who have been in such like extremities,
may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy; < and the
wind also freshening, how gladly 1 spread my sail to it, running
cheerfully before the-wind, and with a strong tide or eddy
under foot. • < * . • r
This eddy carried me about a league in my way.back again*
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the
«orth\^rd>thaa the-current which carried me away at first j so
Jat^when I came near ;the island, I found myself open to the
northem shore, of it, that is to say, the other end of the island,
^p^Ue: to that which I went out from. . ,  •
th ^ J **ad made something more than a league of way by
^e.he]p of this current or eddy, I found it was spent* and
-^rved me no farther. However, I found that being between
jwQ great;currents, viz. that on the south side, which had
f, urned me away, and that on the north, which Jay about a
sague on the other side; I say, between these two, in the
wake of the island, I found the water at least still, and running
0 way j and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept
*>U; steering directly for the island, though not making such
war way as I did before. ,
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
le3gue of the island> I found the point of the rocks which oc-
casioned this disaster,, stretching out> as is described before, to
^southward,* and casting, off the current more southerly, had,
°* course, made .another^eddy to,'the north,- and this I found
very>strong^ but* riot directly setting the way my course lay,
ivhick was due west*; but almost full north. , However, having
a-freshigale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west y
and, inabout an hour, came within about a mile of the shore,
where it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
^ When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
Pf/my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat closeto the shore, in
a little cove that I had spied under some trees, find laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue* of
the voyage.
^1 was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat c. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out> und
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew
Not, ;nor;had Lany mind to run any more ventures > so I only
Tesoived in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, anc\ to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
toy frigatevin safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted her.
4ft about three miles, or thereabout* coasting the shore, I came
to>a very good inlet or bay, about a mile over, wlricli narrow-
ed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a
V«ry^convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
*«e had been in a little dock made on purpose for her. ;Here
I putfn, and haviogstowedmy boat very safe, I went on sh0f$
to look about me, and see where I was. . - it
. I soon found Iiiad but a little passed by the place-where I ha&
been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; So -taking*
nothing oui of my boat but my gun and. umbrella, for it w^
exceeding hot, I began my march. The way was comforta-'
ble enough after such a voyage as I had been upon, and :l
reached my old bower in the evening, where I found, every
thing standing as I. left it; for I always kept it in good ordefr
being, as I said before, my country house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in-the shade, to r&fc
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep: but judg#
you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be
in, when I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling xo&
by my name several times, tc Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe;
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Wh^e
are you? Where have you been >'*
f was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, of
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and with walking
the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly j but dozing
between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that some*
body spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin
Crusoe* Robin Crusoe, at last I began to wake more perfectly*
and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started up m theut*
most consternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but fc
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge j and immediately
knew it was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning
language I had used to talk to him> and teach him; and b^
had learned it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger,,
and lay his hill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin Cnv*
soe! Where are you? Where have you been? How came yott
here ?*'• and such tilings,as I had taught him.
« However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that to*
deed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I coukfc
compose myself: First, I was amazed how the creature go*
thither, and then* how he should just keep about the place/
and no where else: but as I was well satisfied it could be no-r
, body but honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out my handy
and calling him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came
to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here.?
and where had I been ? just as if he had been overjoyed to &&
me again: and so I carried him home along with me. * - 
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, an0*
the "^n<iu^h t0 do for tnany days, to sit still, and reflect upon
fiavfe'h1^ * had been *n; * wou^ have been very glad to
mt I™!^.^'boat again on my side of the island; but I knew
of ihL * ?U aVas Practicable ta get ** about As to the east side
thereto d' -which I had gone round, I knew well enough
and n0i venturing that way; my very; heart would shrink,
ot^n^ ve^y blood^ run chilly but to think of it; andastothe
buti "'S ?^ the island, I did not know how it might be there;
shor ^0s*nS tne current ran with the same force against the
the C at ^e eas* as ** Passed by it on the other, I might run
the -B^me r*sk of being driven down the stream, and carried by
so w*ti! 3S ^ *ia(* ^en before of being carried away from it;
boat 1 ^ese tbouS^ts' * contented myself to be without.any
b ' ^k it had been the product of so many months la-
J t0 "lake it, and of so many more to get -it into the sea.
li'v a government of my temper I remained near a year,
niv-tif Ver^ se(*ate* retired life* as you may well suppose; and
BX Noughts' being very much composed, as to my condition,
n<t'fullyi comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
"fovidence, I thought I lived- really very happily in all things,
e*tept that of society.
_I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises
wiudhimy necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I
^iteve 1 cduld, upon occasion^ have made a very good carpen-
w> especially considering how few tools I had.
^Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
^Uien ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a
n^T ^ich I found infinitely easier and better; because J
£«ae things round and shapable, which before were filthy things
"Weed to look on. But I think I was never more vain of my
wn -performance, or more joyful for any tiling I found out,
uian for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe j and though
/^was a very ugly clumsy thing, when it was done, and only
*Wnt red> like other earthen ware, yet as it was hard and firm,
«a would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
**** it> for I had been always used to smoke: and there
ere pip^ in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinking
^*t there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards, when I
searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
'^ln my wicker-ware also I improved much, and made abun-
thttGeu *necessafy baskets, as well as my invention showed me;
ntjagh^not very handsome> yet they were such as were very
nandy and convenient for my laying-things up in, or fetching
things' horned For example, if I killed a jgoat abroad, ^fb*jT
hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in piece*'
and bring it home in a basket j and the like by a turtle^
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of"*
flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them home in*
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep bask^
were the receivers of my corn, which I always rubbed out &
soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets ^
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably*?
this was a want which it was impossible for me to supptyj
and I began seriously to consider what I must do when ishdukj
have no more powder 5 that is to say, how I should do to k™
any goats. I had, as is observed, in the third year of my beif|£
here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame/and I was*11
hopes of getting a he-goat; but I could not by any-means brio£
it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat 5 and as I could nev#
find in my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, ^
I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to stud?
some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether Icou^
not catch some of them alive $ and particularly, X wanted a sbe*
goat great with young. For this purpose, I made snares ^
hamper them j and I do believe they -were more than 6n<$
taken in them \ but my tackle was not good, for I hadi no wirfc
and I always found them broken, and my bait devoured. -A*
length I resolved to try a pit-fall: so I dug several large pit?
in the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used-fo
^eed, and over those pits I placed hurdles, of my own making
too, with a great weight upon them; and several times I put
ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap, and**
could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eateivup
the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At loogt^
J set three traps in one night, and going the next morning, f
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone? tbr*
was very discouraging. However, 1 altered my trap*; aw
not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to sf
my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-goat, and'if1
one of the others three kids, a male and two females. - 'M
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him ybP
was so'fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him? that is to saj'*
to go about to bring him away alive, which was what-I want-
ed * Icould have killed him, but that was not my business
pot would it answer my end; so I even .let him out, tf&
he ran away, as if he had been frightened out of his. wi*9.
BOBIKEON CBUSOJt. **5
-JBntiinmd: forgot then, what I had learned aftenvareV that
^rwill tameaiion. IfI had let him stay there three or
delays without food, and then have carried him some water
to diinky and then a little corn, he would have been as tame
•a* one ;of the kids j for they are mighty sagacious, tractable
, ^ratures, where they are well used. ^ ?-
*• However, for die present I let him go, knowing no better
at that time nthen I went to. the three kids, and taking them
one by one, \ tied them with strings together, and with some
fhificulty brought them all home.
.^Itiwasagood while before they would feed j but throwing
'them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be
tame. And now I found that if I expected to supply myself
!*ith goats flesh when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
**»e up tame was my only way 5 when, perhaps, I might have
tfcem about my house like a nock of sheep. But then it oc-
curred to mey that I must keep the tame from die wild, or else
l^7 would always^run- wild when they grew up: and the only
v-way:for this wav* to have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them iri so effectu-
*%, tbatithose within might not break out, or those without
break in.
^ CThis was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet as
I saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my nrst
^ork was to find out a proper piece of ground, .where there
waslikely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
•?' Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very
^t|le contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper
Yor all these (being a plain open piece of meadow land, or
'Savannah; as our people call it in the western colonies,) which
jhad two or three little drills of fresh water in it, and at que
^nd was very woody 5 I say, they will smile at my forecast,
*wlien I shall tell them, I began my enclosing this piece ot
ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale must have
'**en at least two miles about. Nor was the madness ot it sp
rgreat as to the compass, for, if it was ten miles about, X was
like to have time enough to do U in 5 but I did not colder
•that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they
*had had the whole island, and I should have so much room
to chase them in, that I should-never catch tbem.
** <My< hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred tomej sol presently stop-
ped short, and, for thirst beginning, I resolved ,to euclose a
piece ofabout i oO yards in lefagth> and 100 yards in breads
which, as it would maintain as many as T should have in af#
reasonable time, so, as my stock increased, I could add nioi?
ground to my enclosure. ^
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to vroj*
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the fir*-
piece j and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in M1-
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible
to make them familiar -7 and very often I would go and ca'tf
them some ears-of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed tlief?j
out of my hand: so that after my enclosure was finished, &$
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleati$?
after me for a handful of corn. .«.
This answered my end j and in about a year and a half *
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all $ and in tw°
years more, 1 had three and forty, besides several that I t(X&
and killed for my food. After that I enclosed five sever*'
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive the$
into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece #
ground into* another.
But this was not all $ for now I not only had goat's flesh' to
feed on when I pleased, but milk too j a thing which, irideeA
in the beginning, I did not so much as think of, and which;
when it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable suf*
prise: for now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gall^1
or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives anppli^
of food to every creature, dictates even riaturally how to maty
use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a goajj
or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a boy, aftei'jj
great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter W
cheese at last, and also salt, (though I found it partly made J?
iny hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of tlfe
sea,) and never wanted it afterwards. How mercifully can* 0itf
Creator treat his creatures, even in those conditions in whidj
they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can tif
sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us cause to prdi#
him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was here sprtf^
for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing, at first, but W
perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen rhe and n)/
little family sit down to dinner: there was my majesty, the
the prince and-lord of the whole island $ I had the lives of w
my subjects at my absolute command; I could hang, dra^f >
give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all• W
atrt^?8* ^en to see now **ke a ^mS * dined too, all alone,
w n^d by xtiy servants: Poll, as if he had been "my favourite,
Wa ^ orfty person permitted to talk to me. My dog, who
to S h?T&rowil very old and crazy, and had found no species
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand $ and
e ° €ats, one on one side of the table, and one on the other,
xpecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
specml favour. •
g u£ tnese were not the1 two cats which I brought on shore at
nrst> *or they were both of them dead, and had been interred
tx^.r.m)r habitation by my own hand; but one of them having
Wh' r t^ ^ * kn0w not wnat km4 of creature, these were two
ch * had preserved tame; wherea9 die rest run wild in the
°°ds, and became indeed troublesome to me at last $ for
t. *Y would often come into1 my house, and plunder me too,
f*1 at last I was obliged io shoot them, and did kill a great
|jj?nyj at length'they left me.—With this attendance, and in
ls plentiful mariner> I lived \ neither could I be said to want
.^Y thing but society, ;f and'of that, some time after this, I was
^ke to have too much. "•* *rn ^
I was something'impatient, as I have observed, to have the
ttse of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazards j
j*nd therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about
the island, and at other times I sat myself down contented
eti0ugh without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
^tfid to" go down to the point of the island, where, as I have
Smdi in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore
jh and how the current set, that I might see what I had to
^°: '• this inclination increased upon me every day, and at length
^Molvtedf to travel thither by land, following the edge of the
sW>re. I did so; but had any one in England been to meet
^ch a man as I was, it must either have frightened him, or
Jaised a great deal of laughter: and as I frequently stood still
l^ look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
spelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and in
%h a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as
*°Uows:
1 Ijad a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me
j& to shoot the rain off from running into my neck j nothing
wing"go hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh,
^Pder'the clothes.
. V, 1 had a short jacket pf goafs skin, the skirts coming down to
aTOt the middle o£ the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeqbe5>of $1** same j the breeches were made of the skin* °*
an. old hp~goat, whdse hair .hung down such a lengthen eftltf*
side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of myJegH
stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me aipairf:0*
somethings, I scarce, know what to call them, like buskins;^
flap over my legs, and lace on either side like,spatterdashes^
but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest ^
my clothes. - Jl
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, whch I drew'ttf*
gether with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles y a#j
m a kind of a frog on either side of this> instead of a swO&
and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet $ one ononesicfcj
and one on the other. I had another belt, not so-broad, at*1*
fastened in the same manner, which hung, over my shoulde^
and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouched
both made of goat's skin too > in one of which hungvmy powdefj
in the other my shot At my back I carried my basket* an*
on my shoulder my gun $ and over my head a great cluing
ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the mo^
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for tfif
face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as one migfr*
expect from a man not at all careful of it, dnd living witlii^
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had on<#
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long? btff
as I had both scissafs and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty1
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed
into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had $&&
worn by some Turks at Sallee 5 for the Moors did not wea*
such, though the Turks did: of these mustachios or whisked)
I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat tip°\
them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous enough,
and such as, in England, would have passed for frightful. ri^
But all this is by the bye $ for, as to my figure, I had so ft"#
to observe me that it was of no manner of consequence 5 $$
I say no more to that part. In this kind of figure t went i#jT
new journeys and waa out five or six days. I travelled fiw
along the sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brougWj
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks 5 and having #°
boat now to take care of, I went over the land, a nearer5 way$j
to the»same height that I was .upon before; when lbbkifi|j
forward to the point of the rocks which lay OtU/and' wliictf#
was obliged to double with my boat, as is said above," I fy^
surprised to see the sea all smooth and-quiet'} ho ripgling;.%
motion, no current, any more there'-'than m any b^e^lace*
*P&*d'*t a ?tr^nSe loss to understand this, and'resolved to
«ety of °?e l-me in lhe observinS lX>to see lf nothing from the
vincedi K *^e **ac* occasioned it; but I was presently con-
Vest !i* *' ^aS* Viz# that the tide of ebb settinS fro»J rh«
rive * a J0mmg w*tn the current of waters from some great
lha.r<m,tk? snor^, must be the occasion of this current; and
or r accor^mg as.the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
fto 'u nortn> this current came nearer, or went farther
i»Pi k sbore> f°r wa*tmg thereabouts till evening, I went
£lai °\ Toc^ again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I
Qff n y 5aW the current again as before, only that it ran farther
tase m^ near *ia^ a *ea&ue ^rom ^e shore; whereas, in my
3lon* lt-S5* close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe
don^ W^*^ li 7 wn*cn* at another time, it would not have
to k P^^ation. convinced me, that I had nothing to do but
Ve^b?erye„the:ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might
* ty easily^tying.my.boat about the island again; but when I
T^tfn *q thinly of ipuuirfg>at: inlpractice> I bad such a terror
j^^foyj^ipiritsijai thecreniembrance'of the.danger I had been
^cfbat I could rmt? think of, itagain with any patience; but,
^Ithe contrary, I took up,another resolution, which was more
We^thpugh trjoreJajboiious.; and this was, that I would build,
^rather make me, another periagua or canoe; and so have
^P^for one, side of tfie island, and one for the other. - ;. .;
^ll *U'.are-Jt0 Mdersrand, that now 1 had, as I may call it, two
^7{J^lio.n| in, the island; one, my little fortification or tent,
^UMrje wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind*
W^Whjch, by this time, I had enlarged into several apartments
Ty*&ve,V'orje within another. One of these, which was thel
^n^ftQdJa/gest, and had a door out beyond my wall or forti-
J13*100* that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock,
v^aJl filled up with the large earthern pots* of which I have
Wr V*^ .account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets,:
iW^wouW hpj^ ,five or sjx founds each, where I laid up my
%^s tof! provision, especially my corn, some in the efcr, cut
3Mljqrt from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my
Wd,, . ,
jjvA-R for my iWall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles,
y$$ PJNes grew all )ike trees, and were by this time grown so;
rf&ijnd spread ;so very much, that there was not the least ap*
*S?Mjance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them,
j^fjear tlys dwelljrjg of mine, but a little farther within the';
^ft* arid upon lowet grpuridj lay rny two pieces of com tend*
which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which &H
yielded me their harvest in its season: and whenever * £3
occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit a* * t
Besides this, I had my country seat; and f had no^'j**0
lerable plantation there also: for, first, I had my Kttlr b<#'e j
as I called it, which I kept in repair -, that is* to say,' I \**a
the hedge which encircled it in constantly fitted up to its ^s°fQ
height, the ladder standing always in the inside: I kept ^
trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but ^e (
now grown very firm and tall, always cut so, that they n^g1?
spread and grow thick and wild, and make the more agre?fL
shade; which they did effectually to my mind. In the rrti^.j
of this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of 3 53'f
spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which ^'
wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had T& ,
me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I ^
killed, and with other soft things 5 and a blanket laid on th^J
such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, '^ ,
great watch-coat to cover me: and here, whenever I had °^
casion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my counW
habitation. '..
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle> th^ 'J-
to say, my goats 5 and as I had taken an inconceivable dea*i
pains to fence and enclose this ground, I was so anxious Wr
it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that I ti&*
left off, till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of * ^
hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another, ^
it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce &°
to put a hand through between them; which afterwards, ^e
those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy sea*00'
made the enclosure strong like a wall,—indeed, stronger tb*
any wall. ^ ,
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I sp^
no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary fot fl
comfortable support 5 for I considered the keeping up a b1* ,
of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living IT1fS^j
zine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I Wf.
in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that keep ^
them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting ?i
enclosures to such a degree, that I might be sure of keep11!*
them together -, which, by this method, indeed, I so effect^
secured, that when these little stakes began to grow, I ^y
planted them so very thick, that I was forced to pull some
them up again.
ifia^
flllllP^^ "^^H|
 
lot I. I:-.
Pallv^ ^aCC a*S0 * **ad mv g^pes growing, which I princi-
J n 'eP^nded on for my winter store of raisins, and which
a?r K'r^ t0 Preserve very carefully, as the best and most
^Seeable dainty of my whole diet: and, indeed, they were not
frnlt ?£reeable, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
^lnS to the last degree,
tatl* 1S Was a*so aD0Ut n^lf-way between my other habi-
stav^ant^ ^e^ace w^re * ^^ ^ UP my ^oat' * %enera^y
to , . an& lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently
lje -*!t mX boat j and I kept all tilings about, or belongipg to
vert Ul Vei^ ^00(* or(^er: somettfnes * went out in her to di-
myself, ^ut no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor
06 6Ver a^ove a stoneVcast or two from the shore, I was
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again
y ^e currents or winds, or any other accident. But now I
Ine t0 a new scene of my life.
*t happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat,
Was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked
loot on the shore, wtiich was very plain to be seen in the sand.
* stood like one thunder-struck, or as if I had seen an appari-
tion > I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing,
nor. see any thing; I went up to a rising ground, to look
tardier j I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it
^as all one; I could see no other impression but that one.
went to it again to see if there were any more, and to ob-
serve if it might not be my fancy $ but there was no room for
tot, for mere was exactiv the pr]nt 0f a foot, toes, heel, and
^ery part of a foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor
could J,4n the least imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I
came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree; looking be-
* fluid me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and
tre^e, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor
J$ it possible to describe how many various shapes my affrighted
imagination represented things tome in, how many wild ideas
>vere found every moment in my fancy, and what strange un-
accountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
.When I came to my castlex (for so I Uiiuk I called it^ver
,after this,) I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
9ver by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in
"the. rock, which I had called a door> I cannot remember; no,
**or could I remember the next morning; for never frightened
vol, i. G
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind
than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night 5 the farther I was from the occasion
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which i*
something contrary to the nature of such things, and especially
to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was so em*
barrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I
formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though
I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be
the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this supposition 5
for how should any other tiling in human shape come into the'
place? Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks
were there of any other footsteps? And how was it possible
a man should come there? But then to think that Satan should
take human shape upon him in such a place, where there could
be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his
foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for lie could
not be sure I should see it,—this was an amusement the other
way. I considered that the Devil might have found out abinv
<lance of other ways to have terrified me than this of the single
print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the other side of the
island, he would, never have been so simple as to leave a mark
in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of
the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced entirely: all
this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all the
notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of the Devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue, me out
t)f all apprehensions of its being the Devil; and I presently con*
eluded then, that it must be some more dangerous creature,
viz. that it must be some of the savages of the main land over
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and
either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea; being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate
island as I would have been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts -at that tbT*e, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had *
been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me:
then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their hav<-
tng found my boat, and that there were people here; and that
if so, I should certainly have them come again in greater num*
^ers* and devour me; that if it should happen so that they
J? n°t find me, yet they would find ray enclosure* destroy
niy corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I should
J*nsh at last for mere Want,
co fi!*US my *earban"isned a11 my religious hope, all that former
nndence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful'
rntf f Ienc:e as I Imd had of his goodness, as if he that had fed'
e by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by his power, the-
P oviston which he had made for me by his goodness. I re-
I oached myself with my lazinesss, that would not sow any
ore corn one year than would just serve me till the next sea-
t?u* as *t no accident would intervene to prevent my enjoying
crop that was upon the ground j and this I thought so just
« reproof, that I resolved for the future to have two or three
/Cars corn beforehand; so that whatever might come, I might
n,°t]perish for want of bread.
How strange a checquer-work of Providence is the life of
jttan [ and by what secret different springs are the affections:
hurried about, as different circumstances present! To-day we
love what to-morrow we hate $ to-day we seek what to-morrow
We shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay,
even tremble at the apprehensions of: this was exemplified in
me> at this time, in :he most lively manner imaginable $ fori,
whose only affliction was that I seemed banished from human
society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean,
cut off from, mankind, and condemned to what I called silent
hfe j that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to-
be numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of
his creatures $ that to have seen one of my own species would
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the
greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme bles$-
jng of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should now trem-
ble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready
!?/mlc int0 tue ground at but the shadow or silent appearance
°f a man's having set his foot in the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me
* great many curious speculations afterwards, when I had st
httle recovered my first surprise. I considered that this was the
station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of God
had determined for me $ that as I could not foresee what the
ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute
his sovereignty, who, as 1 was his creature, had an undoubted
?Snt> by creation, to govern and dispose of me absolutely as
«e thought fit; and who, as I was a creature that fyad1 Q&r.zdzd
him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what pu-
nishment he thought fit j and that it was my part to submit to
bear his indignation, because I had sinned against him. I then
reflected, that as God, who was not only righteous, but om-
nipotent, had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me, so he
was able to deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do so, it
was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and en-
tirely to his will: and, on the other hand, it was my duty also
to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates
and directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months j and one particular effect of my cogi-
tations on this occasion I cannot omit: One morning early,
lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger
from the appearances of savages, I found it discomposed me
very much; upon which these words of the scripture came
into my thoughts, " Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, rising
cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but
I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for de-
liverance: when I had done praying, I took up my bible; arid
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me were,
*' Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall
strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord/* It is impos-
sible to express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thank-
fully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least oh
that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and re-
flections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might
be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the
print of my own foot, when/1 came on shore from my boat:
this cheered menpa little too, and I began to persuade my-
self it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own
foot: and why might I not come that way from the boSt, as
well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, I considered
also, that I could by no means tell, for certain, where I had
trod, and where I had not j and that if, at last, this was only
the print of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools
who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then
are frightened at them more than any body.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights,
so that I began to starve for provisions; for I ha,d little or
nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water: thea
I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually
was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of itj and, indeed, it
|jniost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Encouraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and that I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country house to milk my flock: but
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down
^7 basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one
*b°nght I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
j^n lately most terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had.
However,-as I went down thus two or three days, and having
^en nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and lo think there
^as really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could
n°t persuade myself fully of this till I should go down to the
shore again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by my
°wn, and see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might
be assured it was my own foot: but when I came to the place,
first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my boat,
I could not possibly be on shore any where thereabout: se-
condly, when I came to measure the mark with my own foot,
I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things
filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the va-
pours again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold
like one in an ague) and I went home again, filled with*the
belief that some man or men had been' on shore there -r or, in
short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised
before I was aware > and what course to take for my security
J. knew not.
O what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means which
reason offers for their relief. The first thing I proposed to
tnyself was, to throw down my enclosures, and turn, all my
tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy should find
them, and then frequent the island in prospect of the same
or,the like booty: then to the simple tiling of digging.up my
two corn fields, lest they should find such a grain there, and
still be prompted to frequent the island: then to demolish my
bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of habi-
tation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.
126 ADVEHTUlftfefc OF
These were the subject of the first night's cogitations after
I was come home again, while the apprehensions which had so
overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full
of vapours, as' above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand
times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the
eyes 5 and we find the burthen of anxiety greater, by much,
than the evil which we are anxious about: and, which was
worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from
the resignation I used to practise that I hoped to have. I
looked, I thought, like Saul, who complamed not only that
the Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken
him; for I did not now take due ways to compose my mind,
by crying to God in my distress, and resting upon his provi-
dence, as I had done before, for my defence and deliverance $
which, if I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully sup-
ported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it
with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night;
but in the morning I fell asleep 5 and having, by the amuse-
ment of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits ex-
hausted, I slept very soundly, and waked much better com-
posed than I had ever been before. And now I began to
think sedately 5 and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I
concluded that this island, which was so exceeding pleasant,
fruitful, and no farther from the main land than as I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that al-
though there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot,
yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the shore,
who, either with design, or perhaps never but when they were
driven by cross winds, might come to this place 5 that I had
lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least
ihadow or figure of any people yet; and that if at any time they
should be driven here, it was probable they went away again
.as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to
fix here upon any occasion 5 that the most I could suggest
any danger from, was from any casual accidental landing of
straggling- people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they
were driven hither, were here against their wills, so they made
no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed; sel-
dom staying one night on shore, lest they should not have the
help of the tides and day-light back again 5 and that, therefore,
I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in
case I should see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large
a$ ^o bring a door though again, which door, as I said, came
°ut beyond where my fortification joined to the rock: upon
maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a
second fortification, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a
^stance from my wall, just where I had planted a double row
of trees about twelve years before, of which 1 m,ade mention:
r*ese trees having been planted so thick before, they wanted
^ *W piles to be driven between them, that they might be
picker and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished: so
• at * had now a double wall; and my outer wall was thick-
ened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every thing I could
think 0£ to majce it strong . having in it seven little holes,
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of
this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with con-
tinually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the
toot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice
Jnat I had got seven on shore out of the ship; these I planted
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that held them
like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes time-: this wall I was many a weary month in finish-
ing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks,,
of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they
could well stand; insomuch, that I believe I might set in near
twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space between.
them and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they
attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years time, I had a thick grove j and in five or
six years time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so
monstrous thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly im-
passable j and no men, of what kind soever, would ever im-
agine that there was any thing beyond it, much less a habi-
tation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in
and out, (<br I left no avenue) it was by setting two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke in,
and kit room to place another ladder upon that; so when the
two ladders were taken 'down, no man living could come down
to me without doing himself mischief j and if theyrhad come
down, they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest
for my own preservation j and it will be seen, at length, that
they were not altogether without just reason; though I foresaw
nothing at that time more than my mere fear suggested to me<
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats; they were not only a ready supply to me on
every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without the
expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue of
hunting after the wild ones $ 3nd I was loath to lose the ad-
vantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of
but two ways to preserve them: one was, to find another con-
venient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night 5 and the other was, to enclose two or three
little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much con-
cealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place j so that if any disaster happened to the
Bock in general, I might be able to raise them again with little
trouble and time: and this, though it would require a great
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most rational
design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of die island; and I pitched upon one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish for: it was a little damp
piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick woods,
where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before, en-
deavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the
island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres,
so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by
nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to make
it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and
in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my
flock, or herd, ball it which you please, who were not so wild
now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well enough
secured in it: so, without any farther delay, I removed ten
young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece j and when
they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other; which, however, I did at more
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal. AH this
labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehensions
on the account of the prirvt of a man's foot which I had seen;
for, as yet, I never saw any human creature come near the
island; and I had now lived two years under this uneasiness,
which, indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it
}??s ^efore, as may be well imagined by any who knowswhat
is to live in the constant snare of the fear pf man. And
ls> must observe, with grief too, that the discomposure of
^Y mind had too great impressions also upon the religions part
h m/ ^"S^: for ^ dread and terror of falling into the
seS °f savaS"es ancl cannibals lay so upon my spirits,, that I
aorn found myself in a due temper for application to my
aker» at least not with the sedate calmness and resignation
o soul which I was wont to do: I rather prayed to God as
der great affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded with
nger, and in expectation every night of being murdered and
evoured before morning j and I must testify from my expert
is ^e> *a temPer °f Peace> thankfulness, love, and affection,
?!}• ^le lnore ProPer frame for prayer than that of terror
nd discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief im-
pending, a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of
°e duty of praying to God, than he is for a repentance on
a sick bed j for these discomposures axTect the mind, as the
others do the bo'dy^ and the discomposure of the. mind must
Necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body, and much
greater; praying to God being properly an act of the mind,
not of the body.
But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my little-
living stock, I went about the whole island, searching for an-
other private place to make such another deposite j when wan-
dering more to the west point of the island than I had ever
qone yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea, at a great distance. I-had found a perspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,, which I saved out
of our ship, but I had it not about me j and this was so re-
mote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked
at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer:
whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as I descended
from the hill I could see no more of it j so I gave it overj
only I resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass;
in my pocket. When I was come down the hill to the end
of the island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was.
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was.
not such a strange tiling in the bland as I imagined * and, (but
j?'** was a special providence that I was cast upon the-side*,
of the island were the savages never came,) I should easily have
known that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes
from the main, when they happened to be a little too far out-
at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour*.'
G2
likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes, the
victors having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to
this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being
all-cannibals, they would kill and eat themi of which here-
after.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore -spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particu-
larly, I observed a place where there liad been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where I sup-
posed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while: all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror
of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had heard'
of it often, yet I never had so near a view before: in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle j my stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach; and having vo-
mited with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but
could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got me up
the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked
up with the utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of
tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot
in a part of the world where I was distinguished from such
dreadful creatures as these; and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so
many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of: and this, above all, that I had, even in
this miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge
of himself, and the hope of his blessing; which was a felicity
more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had
suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my cir-
cumstances, than ever I was before: for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they
in? ^6tj. PerilaPs not s^^i"g» not wanting, of not expect-
^S any thing here; and having often, no doubt, been up in
^ m covered, woody part of it, without rinding any thing to
tlt purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
*Tars> and never saw the least footsteps of human creature
c ere before; and I might be eighteen years more as entirely
wh,Ck^** aS * was now' ^ * ^ not discover myself to them,
. *cb I had no manner of occasion to do; it being my only
j 81Ress to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, unless
otind a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself
vn0Wn t0- Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the sa-
injf5 Wretcnes tnat * ^ave Deen speaking of, and of the wretched*
UrPan custom °f tneir devouring and eating one another
P* that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
V own circle, for almost two years after this: when I say
y^Wl1 circle, I mean by it ray three plantations, viz. my
castle, my country seat, which I called my bower, and my
enclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any other
u$e than as an enclosure for my goats: for the aversion which
Mature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was
as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself. I did
not so much as go to look after my boat all this time, but be-
SK-Q iratl?r t0 think °f makinS me another; for I could not
think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other
boat round the island to me, lest I shouJd meet with some of
these creatures at seaj in which, if I had happened to have
fallen into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off
my uneasiness about them 5 and I began to live just in the
same composed manner as before -r only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes, more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautions of firing my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to hear it.
It was therefore a very good providence to me that I had fur-
nished myself with a> tame breed of goats, and that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and if I did catch any of them after this, it was by traps and
snares, as I had done before: so that for two years after this,
I believe I never fired my gun once off, though 1 never went
out without it; and, which was more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or
at least two of them> sticking them in my goafs skin belt. I
al$o furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; so that I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad,
if you add to the former description of myself, the particular
of two pistols, and a great broad-sword hanging at my side in
a belt, but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed,
excepting these cautions, to be. reduced to my former calm se-
date way of living. All these things tended to show me, more
and more, how far my condition was from being miserable,
compared to some others; nay, to many other particulars of
life, which it might have pleased God to have made my lot.
It put me upon reflecting how little repining there would be
among mankind at any condition of life, if people would rather
compare their condition with those that were worse, in order
to be thankful, than be always comparing them with thos«
which are better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many things
which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the frights I had
been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had
been in for my own preservation, had taken off the edge of
my invention for my own conveniences 5 and I had dropped a
good design, which I had once bent my thoughts too much
upon, and that was, to try if I could not make some of my
barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer. This
was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often
for the simplicity of it j fori presently saw there would bethe
want of several things necessary to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible for me to supply: as, first, casks to
preserve it in, which was a, thing that, as I have observed al*
ready, I could never compass; no, though I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to
no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil j
and yet, with all these things wanting, I verily believe, had
not the frights and terrors 1 was in about the savages inter-
vened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too j
for I seldom gave any thing over without accomplishing it,
when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my invention,
now ran quite another way $ for, night and day, I could think
of nothing but how I might destroy some of these mbnsters
in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destrpy. It would take up
sl larger volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set
owivaii the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon, In
my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at' least
"Sfltening them, so as to prevent their coming hither any
more-, but all this was abortive? nothing could be possible
^ take effect, unless I was-to be there to do it myself: and
what could one man do among them, when perhaps there
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as
^ to a mark as I could with my gun?
sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
"ey made their fire, and put in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would conse-
?het% take fire, and blow up all that was near it: but as, in
fte "rst place, I should be unwilling to waste so much powder
£Pon them, my store being now within the quantity of one
°a#rrel, so neither could I be sure of its going off at any cer-
t^n time, when it might surprise them; and, at best, that it
would do little more than just blow the fire about their ears,
ar*d fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the
Pkce: so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place
Myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my three
guns all double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody cere-
mony, let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot; and then falling in upon
them with my three pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt
out that if there were twenty I should kill them all. This
fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks; and I was so fulL
of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was
just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with
lt in my imagination, that I employed myself several days to
find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said,
to watch for them j and I went frequently to the place itself,
'which was now grown more familiar to me: but while
my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a
oloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I
may call it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals
°f the barbarous wretches devouring one another, abetted my
malice. Well, at length, I found a place in the side of the
hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming: and might then, even before they
'would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseeri, into
some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
*arge enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit
and observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim a*
their heads,-when they were so close together as that it would
be next to impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I
could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot.
In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design j and, accord-
ingly, I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece.
The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets;
and the fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-
shot, of the largest size: I also loaded my pistols with about
four bullets each: and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour
every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from nr/
castle, as I called it, about three miles, or more, to see if f
could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island,
or standing over towards it: but I began to tire of this hard
duty, after I had, for two or three months, constantly kept
my watch, but came always back without any discovery j
there having not, in all that time, been the least appearance^
not only on or near the- shore, but on the whole ocean, so faf
as my eyes or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so
long also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits1
seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous
an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for*
an offence which I had not at all entered into a discussion of
in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of
the people of that country j who, it seems, had been suffered
by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to have no
other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions j and, consequently, were left, and perhaps had been
so for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned
by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could
have run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I began1
to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so
long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion of the
action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in 5
what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and exe-
cutioner upon these men as criminals., whora lleaven had
and t 15*' ^°-r S° mmV aSes»t0 suffer, unpunished, to go on,
u ° be, as it were, the executioners of his judgements one
me anQt^er* **ow far these people were offenders against
bio* r^ ^at r*§nt * nad to engage in the quarrel of that
deb t T -l ^le^ s^e(* Prom!SCUOUSly uPon one another, I
\vhtr **"s Ver^ often Wlt^ mvseJf> tnu*: **ow do * know
the °^ himself judges in this particular case? It is certain
^ . People do not commit this as a crime 5 it is not against
them-°Wn consc*ences reproving, or their light reproaching
n» .5.tney do not know it to be an otiehce, and then com-
sin m ^e^ance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the
c ^e c°mmit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
hum6 ta^en m war> ^ian we do t0 kill an ox > nor t0 eat
m fle!5h, than we do t0 eat mutton"'
hen I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I
s certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not
urderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in
y thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers
no often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more
fluently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to
tne sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down
their arms and submitted. In the next place, it occurred to
nie, that although the usage they gave one another was thus
Orutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these
Dermic* hnA ,4/^- „ • • Av . •/ ,r ° . ,
 
.. - > o — -55"- —*- ««»^* *v» «i., mui ***»* * «ci;j yet wui
Qt their power, and they really bad no knowledge of me, and
consequently no design upon me; and therefore it could not
°e just for me to fall upon them: that this would justify the
conduct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of these people; who,
however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
Moody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing
human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
jnnocent people; and that the rooting them out of the country
Js spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by
«ven the Spaniards themselves at this time, and by all other
Christian nations in Europe, as a* mere butchery, a bloody
and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or
rnan 5 and for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned
J° D.e frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of
Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were par-
ticularly eminent for the produce of a race of men who were
without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of piV
to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generou*
temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and toakfa$
of a full stop 5 and I began, by little and little, to be off m#
design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my re*
solution to attack the savages; and that it was not my business
to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me j and tf»M
it was my business, if possible, to prevent j but that if I wer?
discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the
other hand, I argued with myself, that this really was die'way
not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself?
for unless I was sure to kill every one that not only should be
on shore at that time, but that should ever come on shore after-
wards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country people
what had happened, they would come over again by thousands,
to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only .bring
upon myself a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no
manner of occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, th^
neither in principle or in policy, I ought, one way or other, to
concern myself in this affair: that my business.was, by all
possible means, to conceal myself from them, and not to leave
the least signal to them to guess by that there were any Uvingf
creatures upon the island, I mean of human shape. Religion-
joined in with this prudential resolution $ and I was convinced
now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty when I
was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of inno-
cent creatures, I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes,
they were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do,
with them; they were national, and I ought to leave them,
to the justice of God, who is the governor of nations, and knows,
how, by national punishments, to make a just retribution for;
national offences, and to bring pubHc judgements upon those-
who offend in a public manner, by such ways as best please
him. This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a
greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been sufFeredi
to do a thing which I now saw so much reason to believe;
would have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I.
had committed it $ and I gave most humble thanks on my knees
to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; be-;
seeching him to grant me the protection of his providence,
that I might not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or that
I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more
clear call frorn Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life*. f
^ this disposition I continued for ne^r a year after this j and
so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these
fetches, that in all that time I never once went up the hill
to see whether there were any of them in sightL or to know
^hether any of them had been on shore there or not, that I
J^ght hot be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
?hern, or be provoked, by any advantage which might present
ltself, to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and removed
n}Y t)oat, which I had on the other side of tb< island, and car-
ped it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran
u into a little cove, which I found under some high rocks,
and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages
durst not, at least would not come with their boats, upon any
account whatever. With my boat I carried away every thing
^at I had left tnere belonging to her, though not necessary
tor the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail which I had
^ade for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which, indeed,
could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was
^ best I could make of its kind: all these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any
appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation upon the
island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retiredL
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my'
constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats and manage
toy little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
Part of the island, was quite out of danger j for certain it is,
toat these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding any thing here, and
consequently never wandered off from the coast; and I doubt
not but they might have been several times on shore after
my apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as
before. Indeed, I looked back with some horror upon the
thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had chop-
ped upon them and been discovered before that, when, naked
and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded often only
with small shot, I walked every where, peeping and peering
about the island to see what I could get; what a surprise
should I have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a
man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty sa-
vages, and found them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of
their running, no possibility of my escaping them? The
thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, and
distressed my mind so much, that I could not soon recover it,
to think what I should have done, and how I should not only
have been unable to resist them, but even should not have had
presence of mind enough to do what I might have don6'
much less what now, after so much consideration and prepare*
tion, I might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking
of these things, I would be very melancholy, and sometim^
it would last a great while; but I resolved it all, at last, i^°
thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered me fro?1
so many unseen dangers, and had kept from me diose rniS'
chiefs which I could have no way been the agent in delivering
myself from, because I had not the least notion of any sue*1
thing depending, or the least supposition of its being possible
This renewed a contemplation which often had come to fli?
thoughts in former time, when first I began to see the mercj'
ful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through '&
this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we kno^
nothing of it; how, when we are in (a quandary, as we c*d>
it) a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this way, or that way*
a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to g°
that way: nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps
business, has called to go die other way, yet a strange impres-
sion upon the mind, from we know not what springs, and by
we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this way t
and it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that w#y
which we should have gone, and even to our imagination ougk*
to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon
these, and many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever I found those secret hints Of
pressings of mind, to doing or not doing any tiling that pre*
sented, or going this way or that way, I never faded to obey
the secret dictate j though I knew no other reason for it than
that such a pressure, or such a hint hung upon my mind. *
could give many examples of the success of this conduct in the
course of my life, but more especially in the latter part of my
inhabiting this unhappy island j besides many occasions whick
it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had see*1
with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is never
too late to be wise 5 and I cannot but advise all considering
men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incident
as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight
such secret intimations of Providence, let them come from what
invisible intelligence they will; that I shall not discuss, and
perhaps cannot account for $ but certainly they are a proof °*
the converse of spirits, and a secret communication between
thofc© embodied and those unembodied> and such a proof a*
giVenever be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to
8oli °me Very remarkable instances in the remainder of my
I t2rreSldence in **"* dlsmal Place-
fess ^:leve tne reader of this will not think it strange if I con-
the c * t*lese anx^ties, these constant dangers I lived in, and
tion °n^ern t^lat was now. upon me, put an end to all inven-
acc ' anc* to all the contrivances that I had laid for my future
ty m°dations and conveniences. 1 had the care of my safe*
&ott**^0WuponmyhaDdsman tliat of mvfood* *cared
noj ° drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the
a ^ Plight make should be heard; much less would I fire
Uraea ^e same reason: and» ahove all, I was intolerably
a s^ a^ taking any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at
I Y distance in the day, should betray me. For this reason
as ^m°^ed that part of my business which required fire, such
^ Urnirig of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in
Woods 5 where, after I had been some time, I found, to my
^P^able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth,
, «ich went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage,
"ad he been dt the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to ven*
^e in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like
^e, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
wk i"10"1*1 °f this hollow was at tte bottom of a great rock,
wnere by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see-abun*
£*nt reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence,) I was
^tting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal;
ftd, before I go on, I must observe the reason of my making
"lis charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of making a
«fcoke about my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could
«0t live there without baking my bread, cooking ray meat, &c,;
o I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in
Jjngland, unjder turf, till it became chark, or dry coal -, and
^ en putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home,
,d Perform the other services for which fire was wanting,
without danger of smoke. But this is by the bye:—While I
as cutting down some wood here, I perceived.that behind a
ery thick branch of low brush-wood, or under-wood, there
as a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look in it, and
getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was
pretty large: that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright
£ it, and perhaps another with me: but I must confess to you
*«at I made more haste out than I did in, when looking far-
faer mt£the P^ce, and which was perfectly dark, I saw two
woad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or man X
knew not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light fro**1
the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection*
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and beg^
to call myself a thousand fools, and to think, that he d*
was afraid to$ee the devil was not fit to live twenty years &
an island all alone; and that I might well think there V*9
nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself. U?f
tlws, plucking up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and &
I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand: I had U°l
gone three steps in, but I was almost as much frightened &
1 was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a i»all
in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as-^
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepp^
back, and was indeed-struck with such a surprise, that it pw
me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, *
will not answer for it, that my hair might not have lifted *
off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little with considering that the power and
presence of God was every where, and was able to protect ntf/
upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light of the fii*e*
brand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on tb6
ground a most monstrous, frightful old he-goatj just making
Jhis will, as we s3y, and gasping for life; and dying, indeed> &
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get hil^
out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to rise himself)
and I thought with myself he might even lay there; for if h?
had frightened me so, he would certainly fright any of th*
savages, if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there'
while he had any life in him. .
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to, loof
round me, when I found the cave was but very small, that i$
to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no -manner
of shape, neither round nor square, no hand having ever beeij
employed in making it but those, of mere nature. I observed
also that there was a place at the farther side of it that wenf
in further, but was so low that it required me to creep up?*1'
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither it wentlkne^
not: so having no candle, I gave it over for that time; but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with candle
and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six lar£9
candles of my own making (for I made very good candle*
now of goat's tallowj but was hard set for candle-wick, usi»S
a weecN^ T^S °T roPe">rarn» and sometimes the dried rind of
oblip.fia nettles); and going intq this low place, I was
sider'1' ^le Wa^* * thought was a venture bold enough, con-
beyo'j^. l^at * knew not how ^ar it: might go, nor what was
i^f lt* When I had got through the strait, I found the
SUcj fose higher up, I believe near twenty feet: but never was
t0 JqA^0"0118 s'§ht seen in the island, I dare say, as it was,
Waji r°und the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the
^ ,, reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my two
otu es* What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any
I knJ*1^^0^ stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be>
or tr W n0t* ^ne P*ace * was m was a most delightful cavity
3ar|rott° of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly
loo ^00r was dr^ and *evel, anc* had a sort of a small
0 Sr^vel upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venom-
the °.r^ature t0 he seen, neither was there any damp or wet on
Wh,SK*eS Qf toofi! tlie only difficulty in it was the entrance f
0lch, however, as it was a place of security, and such a re-
feat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience j so that
* ^as really; rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
^lay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious
bout to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither
Y magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowl-
fjg-pieces, for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of
"em j hacl eight in all 5 so I kept at my castle only five, which
ood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
nee; and were? ready also to take out upon any expedition.
pon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I happened
0 open the barrel of powder which I took up out of tiie sea,
^d which had been wet; and I found that tlie water had
Penetrated about three or four .inches into the powder on every
£e> which caking and growing hard, had preserved tlie inside
*** a kernel in the shell $ so that I had near sixty pounds of
ery good powder in the centre of the cask: this was a very
JFeeable discovery to me at that time j so I carried all away
ither, never keeping above two or three pounds of powder
rth me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind: I also
carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which
Were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
j*ttld come at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here,
hve hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find
^e out • or, if they did, they would not venture to attack me,
here. The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in ^e
mouth of the cave the noxt day after I made this discovery;
and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and thro^
him in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so *
interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose.
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in thi*
island; and was so naturalized to the place, and the manned °*
living, that, could I have but enjoyed the certainty that $°
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of vof
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me doW**
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived
to some little diversions and amusements, which made tbj
time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did
before: as, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, t0
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulate!/
and plain, that it was very pleasant to me; for I believe tf
bird ever spoke plainer; and he lived with me no less than si*
and twenty years: how long he might have lived afterward* *(
know not, though I know they have a notion in the BrasB*
that they live an hundred years. My dog was a very pleasant
and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years ol
my time, and then diecl of mere old age. As for my cats, thef
multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I v?&
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them frotf
devouring me and all I had j but, at length, when the t^'
old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some tirt^J
continually driving them from me, and letting them have n°
provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except
two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young*
when they had any, I always drowned 5 and these were p^
of my family. Besides these, I always kept two or three house*
hold kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hafl^ I,
and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, a*1",
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, i*1*
deed; did I take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose name*
I knew not, that I caught upon the shore, and cut their wing* ^
and the little stakes which I had planted before my castle w#j
being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls a"
lived among these low trees, and bred there, which was ver/
agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I began to be vet/
well contented with the life I led, if I could but have been
secured from the dread of the savages. But it was otherw^
I^0 w*tn roy story, to make this just observation from it, viz.
self* ^uently» n*tne course of our lives, the evil which in it-
is tvTe SGelc most t0 snun' 3nt* whlch> w*ien we a*e ^allen int0>
doo niast dreadiul t0 us» is oftentimes the very means or
fr r °[ °ur deliverance, by which alone we can be raised again
am^ ^fcrton we are fallen into. I could give many ex-
noth* °f thls in *e course °f mv unaccountable life; but in
^tnmg was it more particularly remarkable than in the cir-
^tances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.
t\vtf ^^ D0W tlie montl1 of December, as I said above, in my
^verity-third year j and this being the southern solstice (for
l^ter I cannot call it), was the particular time of my harvest,
, reqtiired my being pretty much abroad in the fields: when
^lng out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
°rough day-light* I was surprised with seeing a light of some
XQ upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
°wards the end of the island where I had observed some sa-
a£es had been, as before, and not on the other side; but, to
^y great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
} was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
^thin my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
^d yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
^d that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should
£&d my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude that there were
P°°ple in the place, and would then never give over till they
had found me out. In this extremity, I went back directly to
% castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
<* defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is
*° say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new forti-
^cation, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
jjje last gasp 5 not forgetting seriously to commend myself to
^ divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
*&e out of the hands of the barbarians. J continued in this
Posture about two hours; and began to be mighty impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After
sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in this
case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer;
So setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there
^as a flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the
ladder up after me, I set it up-again, and mounted to the top
of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which£&$
taken on purpose, I laid me down flaVpii my bellfoiP^
ground, and began to look for the place. J presently founC
there were no less than nine naked savages, sittTng rojind*
small fire they had made, not to warm them, for they had jft
need of that, the weather being extremely hot, but, aVl siipt
posed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of ^tfrnan ^kt
which they had brought with them, whether alive or dead J,
could not tell. ^
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled tiPj
upon the shore; and as it was then tide or ebb, tfa'ey seeing,
to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away aga^v
It is not easy to imagine what confusion this.sight putmeinttV
especially seeing them come on my side of the island,: and so.
near me too; but when J considered their coming must t#
always with the. current of the ebb, 1 began, afterwards, to'bj*;
more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad
with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not,
on shore before 5 and having made this observation, I weitf
abroad about my harvest-work with the more composure. *' f<
As I expected, so it proved j for as soon as the tide made to
the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or padBte,^*.
we call it) away, t'l should have observed, that for anli6u><*
more before they went off, they went a, daricfcpg; -"-arid I cfotflo.
easily discern their postures and gesftir& by iny glass.i: I coutf
not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that1 they were st3r^
naked, and had not the least covering upon them j but-wheth^,
they were men or woruen^ I could not distinguish. '^ x"
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I t6ok two-gun*'
rpon my shoulders, and t\vo pistols in my girdle, and my grCaJ'
1 word by my side, without a scabbard, and with -all the spe#>r
I was able to make, went away to the hill where I Ifed dtf*
covered the,first appearance of all; and as soon as f got thttMfr
which was notin less dian two hours (for I could not go ripat#>
being so loaden with arms as I was), I perceived there had be#\
three canoes more of savages at that place; and*looking""'^
farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making, over *#*,
the main. This was a dreadful>fght to me, especially as, gefiflg
down to the shore, 1 could see the marks of horror, which th^
dismal work they had been about had left behind it, vi*."^6
blood, the bones, and part of the flesli of human bodies, ^eate^
and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sports•'•'*
was so filled with ir^digpatipn ^t the .'-sight, that 1 now begani0
premeditate the ^esjjuttion of tpe "bext that: I Saw- there/ Jet
: rt BOBtKSOlfr CRUSOE. 145
i^^^^Hom bV Ihow many soever; It seemed evident to
y-S ™*>; visits which1 :ihky 'irtade1 thus to this island were
Oja e<9^^uemy for itwas above fifteen months before any
WttR ^ '^Xn c^me,^ ,sndre tQere again\ that is^to say^I
^^r saw'them, or any foots1 tens or signals' ot them, in ill
to ^G* ^or* as *° mc ^i}^ sejasons; then they are sure not
Cpme abroad, at least not! so far: yet all this while I lived
XoC(?m^)rtably, By reason of the constant apprehensions of their
ttUng uppn nie by surprise: from whence I observe, that
c^xpectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering, espe-
«K^.^t^er© *s no room t0 shake off that expectation, or those
pensions.^
^ Vu:rj*ng all this timer I was in the murdering humour/'and
^ * upjriost of my hours, which should have been better em-
*^°yed, fn cj6ntjivtihg how To circumvent and fall upon them,
"e Ver^ »<&* timo T «1vm\iJ r.^A *Uk«'. ««^a^-ii— *£ (hev should
parties: nor
 
_7 __.,.._., „..._ „ , .... r—v> suppose ten; or
dozen,,! was still the next''day, or week, or month,, to 'fell
J^otheir, ani so another, even ad infinitum, till I should be at
e&gth no less a murderer than they were in being man-eaters,
*N perhaps much more so. I spent my days now in great
Perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting that I should, one
^Jlpr other, fall into the hands of these merciless creatures j
^Wif I did/at any time venture abroad,'it was not without
Wing round me with, the greatest care and caution imagin-
**fc* And now I found, to my great comfort, hpw happy, it
J??fthat I provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for I
^Wnot, upon any account, fire my guri, especially near that
To; of the bland where they usually came, lest I should alarm
^e. salvages 5 and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to
^aVe them come again, with perhaps two or three hundred
^oes with them, in a few days, arid then 1 knew what to
JKpefct,/ However, I wore out a yea ^ and three months more'
• ®fore I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found
jtem again, as I shall -soon observe. It is true, they might
*tyve been there once or twice, but either they made no stay,
«*! at least I did not see them: but in the month of May, as
&Sw\a$,I could calculate, and in my four and twentieth year*
J had a very strange encounter With them) of which in itg
place..
The perturbation of roy mind, duiring this fifteen or sixteen
^onthsanlerval, was very great 11 slept unquiet, dfeajned'ial-
ways frightful dreams', arid dften' started but of my sleep in file
vol. I. ff
night: in the day, great troubles overwhelmed.ray pnad? &r
in'the night, I dreamed often of killing the savages,'and of-$j
reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to waiye $
this for a while,—It was in the middle of May, on jtjie &K
keenth day, I think, as well as,my poor wooden calendar yrow1
Teckon, for I marked all upon die post still $ I say, it was ftj
the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of ffS**
all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a ve#
foul ni^ht it was after it. I knew not what was the particntef
occasion of it, but as I was reading in the bible* and take,n up
with very serious thoughts about my present condition, I *#$
surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at se*
This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of ^different nature frorTl
any 1 bad met with before; for the notioas this,put into &f
thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the tgreat*
B£t haste imaginable, ano*i in a trice, clapped my ladder tp the
middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and mouM"
ing it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very ^0'
tnent thata flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, whi^1
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard j and. by thesouflP/
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driy^
down the current ,in my boat. I immediately considered tha*
this must be s,ome shjp in distress,, and that they had ?$ofl^
comrade, or some dther ship in company, and fired thesejgu^
for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the present
of mind, at that niinute, to think, that though I could not help
them, it might'be they .might hejp me: so J brought ^togeth^
all the dry wood I could get at hand, .and makings goqdhand-
sotne pile, I set it on fire upon the.hiU. The woodwa^dr/;
and blazed freely $ apd though the wind blew very hard* yet
it burnt fajrly out^ so that I was certain, if there Wf aitf
such thing as a ship, they jtni^st needs see It 5 and no ckrtiht
they did -, for as soon as ever my fire blazed up.I heard an0"
ther,gun, and after that several others, all from the samequar*
ter. Lplied my fire all night Jong, till day-breakj and .wh^
it was broad day, and the air cleared up, J saw something&}
•a.great distance at sea, full east x>f the island, wither a -s**
-or aliutl I could not distinguish, nq, n9t with my glass y ^
distance was so great, and the weather still something, basy
also,} at least, it was so oijt at sea, , ''a
I looked Frequently at it all that day, and soon perceiV^
that it did npt move,) so;Jtpresentjy .concluded tlia^ it apa* a
ship, at anchor, j and.heing ieager^you,may,be;*uj^ to,be:#£
tisged/I took niygug Injjay banA, jind ran-towards the^so**1*1
iuj ^ , KOBIK&OK CJtUSOE. ^ 147
*ied ^'island, to>the rocks where I hadJbrrnerlyibeen car-
f|^^Way with the current$. and getting up.there,,the weather
_/tnia,time being perfectly clear, I could plainly.see, to my
"tii>h!f ^r^w* ^e wreck of * shlp^ cast away in >the night
^*^*ho8e concealed rocks which Iibund when I was out>in
^JD09t; and which rocks, as ^hey checked .thp .violence of
a, ^ifcarh, and made a Jdnd<ofcounter stream, or .eddy, weri
gS occasion of my recovering from,the most desperate,, hopa-
,®ss condition Jthat ever I had beeninall my life. Thus, \ehijt
tjj^ IBan'fi ^fetyM mot$et man's .destruction; fo,r .it-seems
^^en,,whoever,they were, being out of their knowledge,
ji ^e rocks being wholly under water, had been driven upon
^m in the night, the wind blowing hard at E- N.-E. Hao*
®y seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did
*> they must, as I thought, have endeavoureg* to have saved
^naselves on shore by the help of their boat 5 but their £ring
J* guns ;for hdip, especially wjben, they saw, as J imagined,
ty fire, filled me with many thoughts: iFirst, I imagined,that
JijPon seeing- my light, $hey might .have putJthemsekes Into
W*ir .boat, and ^endeavoured ;£o rnake the .shore; but that the
J^ going,very 'high, they might have been cast away : .other
«*»$* I imagiried ;that .they might ihave }ost .thejr.boat before,
$>tyight ibe^the case, many .ways $ as, particularly, thy ,the
Joking of ithe sea upon their.sljip, which many times .obliges
S^ntd siave,jar take in pieces- their hoat, and sometimes .to
"Jrpav Jt overboard with their owmhands^;,other, timesji jrni-
S*hfc$ they-had some other ship or ships in company, who,
^FJQfiiihe signals of distress jthfey had .made, had taken.them
SPand carried fthem ,ofF: Other times I fancied\they were all
S^ne (off!to sea huheir boat, and being hurried a^ay by .the
^Eejit that J ha^'heep formerly in, were carried .out. into the
great ocean, where there.was nothing but misery and perish-
es? and/that) perhaps, they, might by this>time. think of. star^i-
,^g, and^f)beii}g in alcondjtion to.eat one another,
y ^klUhe&e,iviere but,conjectures, at best, so, .in .thecQndi?
**°n I wasin, ^could dQ.no.mpre .than look.on upon the.riuV
*P*y «£ theipoor.men, jandi pity, them >, which bad,still thisgood
"sat *numy side, ,that it.gavie me moce and morecause to
|;^thanks.to-G.Qd, whphadjso happily and comfortably*pro-
We^jfor roaiajny desolate conditions and that, of two ships*
^panics-whp.weie now.cast a&ay upon this P^t of thewjorM,
^tibne-ilifc .shouldthe. spatedihut;mine.. J learnedihere again
^observe;,that it is.yeiy jarjer that thappvidence. of (^ pasts
Wi«btD:kEigr^9Qditioii j&Plifc,soAm*,or mymisery so-great,
,148 .ADVENTtJRfcS 0>
.but we may see something or other to be thankful for, ioi
fixiay see others in worse circumstances than our own. Suck
-certainly was the case of these rheny of whom J could not so
*much assee room to suppose any of them were saved;; nothing
-could make it rational so much as to wish or expect that thpf
did hot all perish there, except the possibility only of thefr
being ;taken up by another ship in company 5 and this wasbitt
-mere possibility indeed, for I saw not die least; sign or ajj"
ipearanceof any such ;thing. I cannot explain, by any possi*
-ble energy of words, what a strange longing or hankering °*
desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out som^
times thus—O that there -had been but one or two; *iay, or
,<but one soul saved out of this ship, .to have escaped ;to m^
>that I might bu,t have had one companion, one -fellow-crea*
jture to-have spoken to me, and to have conversed with! 10
all-die 'time of my solitary life,' I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or*0
deep a regret at the want of it. ., 1 <
 > There are some secret moving springs in the affection^
which, when they are set a-going by some object in view, or>
though not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the
.power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul, by its
impetuosity, to such.vjolent> eager embracingstof the object,
*hat the absence of it ris'insupportable;' iSuch were these ear-
<ne,st wishings that .but one man; <had been saved, I believe
I repeated the words, O that it had been but one! a thousand
times $ and my desires were so moved by it, that, when I spoke
(the word& my hands' would clinch together, and my ^finger*
'would press the palms of my hands, that if I had-had anyr soft
-thing'in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily^ ai**
the <teeth .iin my head would strike together, and set against'
•one another so strong, that for some time I could not part then1
©gain. Let the ^naturalists explain these things, and the rea$ofl
and manner of them: all 1 can say to them is, to describe £fle
ftct, which was even surprising to me, when I found it, thong^1
Ifknew not from whence it proceeded: it was doubtless >tb#
•eifect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in fliy
mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation of one of
nry fellow Christians would tfiaye fceen= to me.—But it was apt
to foe j either their fate or mine, or both, forbade it: for, *#
the last year of my being on this island, I never knew whether
any; were saved out of ^hat'sliip or no; and had only the afflic-
tion, some days after, to see the xorps of a drowned boy corrtf
on shore at theend^fithe island which was next the shipwrecks
^'^d no .clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open~
^ e§d. liiien drawars, and a blue linen shirt $ but .nothing, lo
n fw m? s0 nauch-as to, guess what, nation he wasof: he had
pthing in his pockets but two pieces of. eight and a tobacco,
£*y >—Ae last was. to me of ten times more value than the
+* was now calm, and I had a.great mind to, venture:.butan
V*¥ boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find, some-
^ng on board that might be useful tome: but that did not
^together press me so, much as the possibility that there, might
_^>y«5t some living creature on boards whose life I might #ot
iuy save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
XQ last degree $ and this thought clung so to ray heart, that
c°uldnpt be quiet night or day, but I, must venture out in
5jy boat on board this wreck 5, and committing the rest to
v»od*s providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
^y mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come from,
s°me invisible, direction, and that I should be wanting to my-
self ifl did not go. ; .-.. .1: .>; ,.;
Under the powenof this- impression, -1 hastened back to riry
f castle, prepared every thing for my voyage, took a quantity :of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a
-bottle of^ rum (for I had stillia great deal of: that left), and a
basket of raisins: and thus, loading mysdf ^with every thing
necessary, I went down to ray. boaty got the water out of her,
put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
-again for more. My*second cargo was a great bag; of rice,
the umbrella, to set up over my head for ashade, another,large
pot of fresh water, and about two dozen ofimy small loaves,
\ot barley-cakes; more* than before, with aibottle of goafs milk
r^iida cheese: all which, w.iih;greatlabour and sweat, I carried
^o my boat 5 and praying to G.od to direct ray voyage, I put
iout; arid rowing, orpaddHng^ the canoe along the shore, came
at last to the utmost point of th& island on. the north east side.
*Andnbw*I was to launch out into the ocean, and either, to
Tetiture ornot to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
^htch'fah' constantly on both, sides of the island at a>dis-
3*ariee,*and which were very terrible to. me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, .and my heart began
to fail me r for I? foresaw thatji£I was driven intoifeitherof
those currents, I should be-carried a great way out to sea, and
perhaps out of* my reach, or * sight; of the island again; and
*hat then, as my boat was but small, if any. little gale of wind
should rise, I should be inevitably, lost »--(. . u.. ..
These thoughts- io oppressed my mind> that I begaft to gtye
, dv^ iny enterprae* and having Hauled my boat into a lit*??
ereeki ori the sh6rey I stepped-oat, atidsat! me down Upon *
rising bit of ground^ very pensive and anxious, between $*&
and desire, about my voyage j when, as11 was musing, I ocmJd
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come on 5 upP0
which* my going was impracticable For so many hours, < tipa*
this; presently* it occurred' tb me, that I* should go op to the
highest piefcdof ground 1 tiotdd firifcf, and observe, if I cou&;
How tfee^eteef the tide, or curreritsi lay when the flo6d came
in, that f rnigHt judge whether* if I was driven one way ou*>
I might not expect to* be driver* another way home, with the
ganie rapMness of the currents*. This: thought was nor sbon#
in my head than I cait my eye upon a little hill, which suf*
ficlemly overlooked the sea both ways, and from whehce I htfd
a clear view of the currents;, or teti of the tide, and which way
1 was to guide myself ihr my rettfrft. Here I foundy that a*
the current! of th£ ebb get out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the fefiote of
the north side j and that I had nothing to do but to keep to
the north side of the island in my return, and i should do
well enough.
Encouraged with fhitf observation/ I resolved, the next rhorrir
irig; to set put with the first of the fide j and reposing myself
fof the night in mf canoe> urider the great watehVcoat I men-
tioned,' I launched out. I first made a little out to sea* fall
north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which set
east ward, and which carried me at a great rate j and yet did riW
so hutry me as (he current on the south side had done before,
so as to take from me all government of die boat! f buti having
a strong steerage with iny paddle, I went at a great rate" di-
rectly for the wreck, and in less than two hburs I earhe up to
it. It wdg a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which* by its
building, was Spanish, stuck fas*, jammed hi between1 two rocks j
all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces with the
sea j and as her forecast^, which stuck m the rocks, had run
tih with great violence* her rnairimast and foremast were brought
by, ther board, that is to say, broken short off $ but her bowsprit
was sound, and the head and bo\v appeared finn. When I
came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who seeing rue
coming, Jelped and cried } and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to come to me -, I took him into the boat, but
found .him almost dead vrtth hunger and thirst. I gave him
a cake of my bread, add he devoured it like, a &vem>W wolf
jjj^ had beeft starving a> fortnight la the- saoto l ]} then gave
i Poor! creature some fresh water, with; which>. if! would
oah ^iln>>*ieWQuldhavebursth"3**5*1"- After this, I weal
ia'th ^5 kUt &&%st sight I met with was teamen, drowned
3 ^e cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
thto k°Ut Qne anot^er* ' concluded, ar is indeed) probabtey
^ wheo'the ship struck, ifc being in? ar storm, tlio seafbroke
!?l'8n*.'and so continually over her, that? the-men were nit
™&Ho bear its, and were strangledi with the qonstant rushing
k_ Jt the water, as. much as if they: had* been, under water*
j^^s thedog, tliete waa nothingr krt;in thersiu> matrhod
tr 'n°tany) goods,that I cduld see,, but what were* spoiled by>
e*watet. There-were some casks of liquor, whether wiueotf
*andy 1 knew not, which- lay lower uutiie hold!, and which1,
*e Water being ebbed out*, L could see j. but they) were too big
j& Meddle with. Xsaw severaL chests, which I believed: be**
*£°ged to, some of the seamen f; acdl I got two of them inro>
^ boat, without, examining' wh«t^wfl»in-tfaenu Had the stgf A
^fi the ahijj* bestir fixed* and the forepart: broken/ dr& It am* p^
$*ftded>1 might hai?e made a good) voyags? for, by: whati $ fouiK?
*fl tb*se two: chests, I Bad room tosuppo$ie?the'ship^hadraigreal?
<teai of wealth on board j and, if I may guess frorm the- G0tfrs4
^steered,, she must have been, bound from- Buenos Ayrfcs>
^ the, Rio det la Plata, i» the south> part of America*, beyond*
werBrasils, to the; Hayanna^ hxthe Gulph of-Mexico, and m
J^fbflps to Spain* She had, no doubt,; a: great treasure m<he*,.
bat, of no use, at that time, to any.bodyy aadiwhatbecameof
^ncrew, I then knew not.
-I found, besides these chests, a; little cask full of liquor, of
*ta»t:rwenty gallons, whicli I got into my! boat with mucli1
difficulty. There were several muskets in* the cabin* and1 A
§re*t powde^horni witii about four pounds of powder iriic y
^for the, rnuskets, I had no occasion for. them, so I leffctrien^
***** took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and^toii^s;
^hich I wanted extremely; as; also two little* brads' kettles, a
°°Pper pot to make chocolate* and a gridiron: and with this
f^%°> ^kI the dog, I came away> the tide beginning to make
*teme again;* and the same evening, aboutan1 hour within rtighc,
* reached the island again,, weary and' fatigued to the-list de-
gree. I reposed that night im the boat? 5 and' \n the morning I
resolved to. harbour what I had got in my new cave, andnof.
carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself,, I got all
toy cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars* Tlie-
casfc of liquor I found to, be a kind of rum; bur not sucii as
we had at the Brasils, and, in a word, not at all- good? *>&
when I came to open the chests, I found several things $
great use to me; for example, I found in one a fine case**
bottles, of anextraordinaiy kkid, and filled with cordial watery
fine and very good j the bottles held about three pints eacbj
and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very gof41
succades, or sweatmeats, so fastened also on the top, that thj?
salt water had not hurt them, and two more of the same, whicj*
the water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts, whi#*
were very welcome to<me y and about a dozen and a half of whi*e
linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the former were
also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe tdj
face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in tfc£
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in. all \ and in one of theflb
wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some sma"
bars or wedges of gold -, I suppose they might all weigh neat
a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but of little
value j but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged &
the gunner's mate, though there was no powder in it, except
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept/
I suppose,, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon
the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any us©
to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion fot
it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would have:
given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings*
which were things I greatly wanted, but had none on my
feet for many years. I had indeed got two pair of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw
in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests,
which were very welcome to me; but they were not like out
English shoes, either for -ease or service, being rather what we
call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about
fifty pieces of eight in rials,, but no gold: I suppose this be-
longed to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to be*
long to some officer. Well, however, I lugged this money
home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before
which I brought from our own ship: but it was a great
pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had not come to
my share; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money; and, thought I, if I ever
escape to England, it might lie here safe enough till I may
come again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shoro, an£ secured
*«em, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddle&her along
jjje Shore,to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made
'|j|e best of my way to my old habitation, where I found every
*tong aafe and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after
^y old fashion, and take care of my family affairs 5 and, for ja
'^ile, I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
^sed to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so
^tKjh V and if at any time I did stir with any freedom^ it was
9ways to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
*3tisiiedthe savages never came, and where I could go with-
out so many precautions,, and such a, load of arms and ammu?
^tion as I always carried with me, if I went the other way.
*'lived in this condition near two years more -, but my unluckj
Jead, that was always to let me know it was born to make my
k°dy, miserable, was all these two years filled with projects and
S*esigns, how,, if it were*possible, j might get away from this
^land :i, for, ssometimes I was for making another voyage to the
^nrecky .though my reason told me that there was nothing left
there worth the hazard o£ my voyage: sometimes for a ramble
°He way, sotmetimes- Another 5. and I believe verily, if I had
^acLthe, boat that Ij went from Sallee in, I should have ven.-
tQi;ed to&eai bound any where, I knew not. whither. I have
keen, inialhvmy circumstances, a memento* to those who, are
touched wUh*the general plague of mankind, whence, for
Qught Ifknow, one half of their miseries flow; I mean that of
Aot, beingsatisfied with the station wherein God and nature
liath. placed them; for?1 not to lookback upon my primitive
condition,.and the excellent advice of my father, the opposition
to jwhich was*, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent
Mistakes.of'the same kind had been the means of my coming
into this miserable condition j for had that Providence, which
saliappily seated me at the BrasiJs as a planter, blessed me'with
confined desires, and I could have been contented to have gone
on gradually, I might have-been, by this time, I mean in the
time .of my being in this island, one -of the most considerable
planters in/the Brasils; nay, f am persuaded, that by the im-
provements I had made in that little time I lived there, and
the increase I should probably have made if I had remained, I
might have been worth an hundred thousand moidores: and
Mdhafr business had, I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked
plantation, improving and. increasing, to turn supercargo to
Guinea to fetch, negroes, when patience and time would have
s<i*incieas£d' our stock at home, that we could haye bought
them, at our own door from those whose business it was to
H<2'
154 -AtfVitfTtffcfe* 6*
leteli them'; arid though it had cbsl to something more, yet the
ldiHereWce df !thtft price was by no meaiis worth teving'-at $0
great & tta£ard? Btit as this is usually the fate of ydung heads*
T& Veffcfctrdh upbn the* folly df it is as commonly the exercfce
4of rhore years, or 6F the dear-bbtfght experience of time: &
ft wak with me noV -, and yet so deep had the mistake taken
fctoHh myteinper, that I could ndt Satisfy thyself in my stations
but was continually poring upon th6 means and possibility'6?
tny esca^ from this place: dtfd that I frtay, with the greater
•pleasure ttt the reader, bring oh the remaining part of my story*
It rhay hot be irhprb^er tb ^ive some account of my first con*
captions oh the Subject of tfhis foolish scheme for my escape*
and how, and upon what foundation> I acted.
I 4m how tb be supposed retired into my castle, after my
iate vtfyage to the wteck, my frigate laid up and secured under
water, as usual, rind thy cbnditib'n restored to what it was be-
fore i S had more wealth; indeed, 'than I had before, but was
trdt at ail th£ richer \ for I had no more use for it than the In-
dians of Peru had before the Spaniards came there.
It was drteiof the nights in the rainy season in March, the
font and twentieth year of rriy first setting foot in this island
of solitude, I was lyihg in my bed, or hammock, awake ',
Very Well in health, had no pain, nb distemper, no uneasiness
t>f body, nor &ny uneasiness of mind, more than ordiriary,
tta't cbttld by no roearfs close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep j
rib, tioi a Wink all night long, 6therwise than as follows :—It
is impossible to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts
that whirled through that great thorough-fare of the brain,
the memory, in this night's time: I run over the whole his*
tory of my life rn miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it,
to my toming to this island, and also of that part of my life
since I came to this island. In my reflections upon the state
of my case since I came on shore on this island, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the first years of my
habitation here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear and care
which I had lived in, ever since I had seen the print of a foot
in the sand $ nbt that I did not believe the savages had fre-
quented the island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on shore there, but I had
never known it, and was incapable of airy apprehensions about
it j my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same, and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if J
had never really been exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts
with many very profitable reflections, and particularly this one:
W>W)krfinijt9ly*goQd that Provider is, w&ichjjas provided; in
'^government o£ mankind, such narrow bounds to his .sight
*?« 'knowledge of tilings: and though he walks in the midst
*** &> many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered
t0 him, would distract his mind and sink his spirits,, he i* lfepfc
Jerene and calm, by having the events of things hid from his
??C5> and knowing nothing of the dangers which susronad
After these thoughts had for some time entertained me., I
^toe to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been Lo
**** so many years in this very island, and how I had walked
****** in the greatest security, and with all possible tranquillity,
^veu when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tsee,
°r &e casual approach of night, had been between me and the
^or6t kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of
^Bntbals and savages, who would have seized on me with the
same view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and have thought
** no more a crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a-pigeon
*>* curlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I should say
$ was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility, all
*hese unknown deliverances were due, and without which I
must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
$me( taken up in considering the nature of these wretched
creatures, I mean the savages, and how.itcame to pass in the
world, that the wise Governor of all things should give up any
°f his creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much
helow even brutality itself, as to devour its awn kind: but as
ihig ended in some (at that time fruitless) speculations, it oc-
curred to me to inquire, what part of the world these wretches
liycd in? How far off the coast was from whence they came?
What they ventured over so far from home for? What kind
°f boats they had? And why I might not order myself and my
Justness so, that 1 might be as able to go over thither as they
^ere to come to me?
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should
do with myself when I went thither; what would become of
Jtae, if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how 1 should
escape from them, if they attacked me .; no, nor so much as
how it was possible for roe to reach the coast, and not be at-
tacked by some or other of them, without any possibility of
delivering myself; and if I should not fall into their hands,
what I should do for provision, or whither I should bend my
course: none of these thoughts, I sayvsd much aft came ititfSf
way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of tdf
passing over in my boat to the main, land, I looked up#*
my present condition as the most miserable* that could-possibty*
be 4 that I was not able to throw myself into any thing, but
death, that could be called worse; and1 if I' reached the shor*
of the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might coa^
along, as I did on the African shore, till 1 came to some in*
habited country, and where I might find'some relief; and after
all, perhaps,, I might fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could
but die, which would put an end to, all these miseries at once*
Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, «an im*
patient temper, made desperate, as.it were* by; the long con-
tinuance of my troubles, and the disappointments J had met
in the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been
so near obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz; some*
body to speak to, and to learn some knowledge from them of
the place where I was, and of the probable means of my de*
liverance. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts; all my
calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting
the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspend**
ed; and J had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to
any thing but to the project of a voyage to the main ,- which
came upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity of
desire, that it was not to be .resisted*
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours ormore>
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment,
and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw
me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it:
but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning, as usual,
from my castle, I saw upon the sfiore two canoes and eleven
savages coming to land, and that they brought with them anothex*
savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him;
when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kiil
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thought, in my sleep,
that he came running into my little thick grove before my for*
tifkation, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and
not perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed
myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him: that
he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him $
iw1?^ flowed him my ladder,, made him g<f up, and
^f le« him into, my cave, and he became 'my servant: and
^aS'BQon asil hadigot.this man, I said to myself, now I
WcerjainJy venture,to the main land;, for this^.fellow will
j^e We,to a pilot, and- will*tell me what to do,^and whither
*g&for;provisions, and whither not to go for fear ofc being
^ *0ur£d; what places to venture into, and what to shun. <. I
irn ^"^ ^ls thought; and was under such inexpressible
. Passions of joy.at the prospect of my escape in my dream,
at the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself,
ext ^D£ *** was no more than a dream, were* equally
trdyagant tlie. other Way, and threw me into a very great
qe3ecaon of spirits...
Upon tliis, ,hpwever(> I made this conclusion; that my only
ay to go about;to attempt an escape, was, if possible* to get
;?avage ifito*m)* possession j and, if possible, it should be one
°* their prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
J"°uld; bring'hither to kill. But these thoughts still were at-
le&ded*withrthis difficulty^ that it was impossible to effect this
Without attacking a whole ^caravan of them, and killing them
aH'5i and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and might
roiscariy, but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the
lawfulness of it to myself; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my de-
hverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to
^e against this,, they being the same mentioned before; but
though I had other reasons to offer now, via. that those men
^ere enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they could;
*Hat it,was self-preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver
royself from this death of a- life,, and was acting in my own de-
fence .as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the
*l*e > I say, thpugh these things argued for it, yet the thoughts
£f shedding.human blood for my deliverance were very terri-
b*e to me, and such as I could by no means reconcile myself
to. for a great while. However, at last, after many secret dis-
putes iwith' myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my, head
a l°ng time),, the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length
Mastered aliuthe rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of
those savages into my hands, cost what it would. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to resolve on: but as I could pitch upon no probable
n^eans for i^ Sp 1 resolved to put myself upon the watch, to
fi°e them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the
the event; taking such measures as the opportunity shotf^
present, let what would be. *
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself np^
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that J ^z,
heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half that
waited; and for great part of that time went out to the w#
end, and to the south-west corner of the island, almost every
day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very
discouraging, and began to trouble me much; though I can*
not say that it did in this case (as it had done some time be*
fore) wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but "#
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for &•,
in a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight 0*
these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was no^
eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied myself able i0
manage one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so aj
to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their being able at any time to d°
me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself w»*
this affair; but nothing still presented; all my fancies and
schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me for *
great while.
About a year and a half after I entertained these notions*
{and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them $
into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion,) I was surprised, one morning early, with seeing no less
than five canoes all on shore together on my side the island*
and the people who belonged to them all landed, and out of
my sight. The number of them broke all ray measures; fat
seeing so many, and knowing that they always came four of
six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack twenty ot
thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed
and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the safltf
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and \vas
just ready for action, if any thing had presented. Having
waited a good while, listening to hear if they made any noise,
at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot oi
my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my Wa-
stages, as usual; standing so, however, that my head did r*ot
appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by
any means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective
glass, that they were no less than thirty in number$ that they
iwd a lire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. Ho*
KoBtNSON CfcOSOE. 1^9
^j^ad ctiokedit Mnew not; or what it was j but they were
%nnc"mS» *n 1 know not how many barbarous gestures and
\. ^"e^>'their own way, round the fire.
W^- * wad-thus looking on them* I perceived, by my1pef-
}^^lV&i'>twb^!m!serable wretches dragged From the boats,
V, e^» itseerns> they were laid by, and were now brought out
£*;*«£ slaughter. I perceived one of then! immediately fall,
,2JjS knocked down, J suppose, with a club or wooden
.JJ^'.'for th'at was their way, and two or three others were
wJr*k ^mediately, cutting him open for their cooker)-,
nufc'the other victihi was left standing by himself, till they
bu«\vbe ready for him. In that very moment, this pdbr
'retch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound, nature
.joined liim with hopes of life, and he started away from
fteni* and ran with* incredible swiftness along the sands, di-
,^% towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast
^here my habitation was. I was dreadfully frightened, I
^U$t acknowledge*, when I perceived him run my way, and
^specially *when>: as I thought, I saw him 'pursued by the
^hole body t and now I expected that part of my dream was
doming to pass> and that he would certainly take shelter in
toy grove? but I could not depend, by any means, upon my
^ream for the resttjf it, viz. that the other savages would not
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my
station, and my spirits began to tecover> when I found that
JJtere was not above threfc men that followed him; and still
/fibre was I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them
exceedingly in running, and gained ground of them; so that
lJ he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he wotild
*aiHy get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which I
Mentioned often in the first part of my story, when I landed
*fiy Cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must
Necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken
*here; but when the savage escaping came thither, he made
•^thing of it, 'though the tide was then up, but plunging in,
*wam through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed,
and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three .persons came to * the creek, I found that two of them
'^ould swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the
otW sjde, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and
§°on after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was
Very well for him in the end. I observed, that the two
^ho swam were yet tnore than twice as long swimming over
the creek as the fellow was that fled from, them. U &j®.
now Wbty waffnly upon my thoughts, and indeed irreslsfw
that now was'-the time to get me a servant, and perhap*
companion or assistant and that I was called plainly by ^
'vidence to save this foor creature's life. I immediately *p
down the ladders with all possible expedition, fetchdd my &
guns, for they were both at the foot of the ladders, *as I ^,
served above, and getting up again, with the same haste; }
the top of the hill> I crossed toward the sea, and having a vey
short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way betw^ij
the pursuers and the pursued, hollowing aloud* to him t^
fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as- much frigfr*'
ened at me as at them \ bijt I beckoned with my hand to $$
to come back j. and, in the mean time, I slowly advancedW
wards the two that followed; then rushing at once upon tbj
forerao&t, I knocked him down wkh the stock of my piece. \\
was loath to fire, because I would not have the rest heflf5
though, at that distance, it would not have been easily heafP'
and being out of sight of the smoke too, they would not ha#
easily known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellp^
down, the other who pursued him stopped, as if he had bee*
frightened, and I advanced apace towards him: but as I catftf
nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, a#J
was fitting it to shoot at me j so I was then necessitated &
shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the fi^
shot. The poor savage who fled,, but had stopped, though h?
saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet v$
so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece, that J1*5
stood stock-still, and neither came forward nor went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined to still fly, than}°
• come on. I hollowed again to him, and made signs to corft^
forward, which he easily understood, and came a little wa/i
then stopped again, and then a little farther,and stopped again?
and I could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he h&<*
been taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, a3 his ttftfj
enemies were.. I beckoned to him again to come to me; aftd
gave him all the signs of encouragement that 1 could think ov
and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every tetffr
twelve steps, in, token of acknowledgment for saving his li^
I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,, and beckoned to h',nfl
to come still nearer: at length he came close to me; and thep
he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot-up011
his head; this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be""n}V
VM, i# lit.
^ncou°teVei- ^ t0^ hirnupj' and made much-of him, and
M. f^6? m ^ ^ coul4- But there was more work to do
^otV.^r' I perceived the 3avage whom'I knocked down was
to i •  '^*ut stunned with the blow, and began, to come
Vaellmselfr so I pointed to him, and showed him the sa-
tom * ^ was not ^ea^ * upon this, he< spoke some words
itte, and though I could not understand them, yet I thought
!? ,were pleasant to hear j for they were the first sound of a
twns voice that I had heard, my owu excepted, for above
e*tfy-fiye years.; But,there was no time for such, reflections
fai^;!^le savage who was knocked down recovered himself so
Va?a\*0--sit up upon die ground, and I perceived that my* sa^
oth .&an to De afraid 5 but when I saw that, I presented my
er piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this
i ^ Savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to
.^ him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
^* which I dkl. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his
^tay, and, at one blow, cut off his head, so cleverly, no ex-
^Utionert in Germany could have, done, it* sooner or better j
jyhich I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to be-
*Jeve,-.never saw a sword in his life before, except their own
*Vooden swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
tfcey make their wooden swards so sharp, so heavy, and the
wocd is so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them*,
**ye, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
j*to, he comes laughing to me, in sign of triumph,, and
bought me the sword again, and with abundance of gestures,
^"ichl did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had killed, just before me. But that which
punished him most, was to know how I killed the other In-
^lan so far off: so pointing to him, he made signs to me to
j^t him go to him; so I bade him go, as well as I could. When
**e came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him,
^ming him first on one side, then on the other, looked at the
^°und the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his
breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of
°*°od had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was
quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows, and came back 5
so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me,
faking signs to him that more might come^ after them.
Upon this, he made signs to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they fol-
lowed; and so, I made signs to him again to do so, He fell
to work, j and, in an instant, he had scraped a hole in tbo
sand with bis handsj big enough to bury the first in, and $&*
dragged him into it, and covered bim $ and'did so by the od*e
also, I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of &
hour. Then calling him away, 1 carried him* not to my castv?
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island
so I did not let* my dream come to pass in that part, viz* W*"j
he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him foi^j*
and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, wb'lC*
I found he was indeed in great distress* fou, by his running
and having refreshed him, F made: signs for him to go ^
He down to sleep, showing him a, place where I had laid s<ttf*
rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep up01*
myself sometimes $ so the poor creature lay down, and? w^
to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well mad$i
with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well shaped *
, and/ as I leckoft, about twenty-six years of age. He had *
very good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, W*
seemed to have something very manly in his* face; and yet b*
had all the sweetness and softness of an Kuropean; in his con*1'
tenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was loflg
-and Macfc, not curled like wool; his. forehead very high afl"
large? and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eye**
The colour of his skim was not quite black, but very tawny >
and yet not of an. ugly,, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Bra**
silians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, btf*
of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it something
very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His fa<#
was round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the nc1
groes; a very good mouth, thin lips* and his fine teeth well sety
and as white as ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half &
hour, he awoke'again, and came out of the cave to me, fc*
I had been milking my goats, which-1 had in the enclosure jos*
by: when he espied me, lie came running to me, laying him-
self down again upon the ground, with ail the possible sigf
of an humble thankfal disposition^ making a great many antic
gestures to show it. At last, he lays his liead flat upon the
ground, close to my foot, and sets coy other foot upon his head,
as he had done before j and after thi^ made all the signs to m^
of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to letfltf
know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood
him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased
with him. In a little time I began tp speak to him, and teach
flOSltt<SO» CfrUSOE. 163
?J* *® Speak td nle y aridi, firsf, I let him know hi* name should
^ Psi^Aty *mteh Wris the day! saved his lift: I called him
?>&* the memory of t&S tim*. I likewise taught hirti to say,
ffltW \ and theri let- hitiri Know that was to be my name:
^ewia* tftugfcC'fflift f© say yes and no, and to know the
T^ftlttg: of tfeer&. f gaVe him scfcfte milfc? in att earthed £ot,
^*fet Him See me drink it before him, arid sop my bread in
7* and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, whfrdv he
yjjckty eomftfed with, and1 madesigife that it was Very good
r* him. I kgpf mere* ^vttfr him all thdt night; but as soon as
j* w&sday, t beckoned to him t& come witlv me, arid let hirn
*tt*>w J would give him some clothes; at which he1 seem&l
*ety glad, for he was stark naked. As we Went by the place
J^ere he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the
r*tej and Showed rrtethe marks that he had made tofind them
*&#n, making signs to nte that we should dig them up again,
*nd eat them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my
ffohorrenee of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of
**# And beckoned with my hand to him to come away y Which he
^ immediately, with great submission. I then led him Ur>
^ the top of the^ hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and
filing out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where
*«fcy had been, but no appearance of them or their canoes; so
ftftt it was plain they were gone, and had left their two com*
1>ides behind them, without any search after them.
6ut I wsrt not content with this discovery; but having now
***bfe courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my
**ten Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with
^ bow *md arrows at his back, which I found he could trie
*^y dexterously, making him carry one gun forme, and I two
^r myself j and away we marched to the place were these
features Iwd been; for I had a miind now to get some fuller
Intelligence of them. When I came to t^ie place, my very
Mood ran cMl in my veins, and my heart sunk within me, at
J«o horror Of the spectacle ; indeed, it was a dreadful1 sight, at
*fct it1 was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The
Pkce Was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with
their blood, And great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-
***en, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
*& triumphant feast they had been making there, after a vie-
***y over their enemies. I saw three sculls, five hands, and
** bones df three 01* four legs and feet, arid abundance of
*tttefr £arts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me
*derfta«d that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon;
. that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to kjj'
lelf, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle W*
tween them and their next king, whose subjects, it seemS/;. ,
ftad been one of, and that they had taken a great numbe*^
prisoners -, all which were carried to several places by $ 
who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon tb#jjj
as was done here by these wretches upon those they tarouP*
hither. , _*
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh* *?j
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap* *jj
make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I f<^
Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the fl#*'
and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered &
much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the \&
appearance of it„ that he durst not discover it: for I had, W
some means, let him, know, that I would kill him if he <*
fered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle j 9$
there I fell to work for my man Friday: and, n>st of all*}
gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the p0^
gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck; ^l-
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well: and the!j
I made him a jerkin of gpat's-skin, as well as my skill wotf^
allow (for I was now grown a tolerable good tailor) j an4
gave him a cap, which I had made of hareVskin, very co?*
venierft, and fashionable enough:, and thus he was clothed/°r
the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to.&f
himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, bf
went aukwardly in these clothes at fiist; wearing the draweff
was very auk ward to him, and the sleeves of the waistc*?^
galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms j but a MM?
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and usifli>
himself to them, he took to them at length very welL f
The next day after I came home-to my hutch with him* }
began to consider where I should lodge him; and that I mig**
do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made .*
little tent for him in the vacant place betweeamy two for£'
fications, in the inside of the last, and in the outside, of w«|
first. As there was a door or entrance there into my cave, A
made a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boarfsj
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance j ##
causing the door tQ. open in the inside, 1 barred, it. up in J}?f
night, taking in ray ladders too; so that Friday colild.no *p.
come at me in, the inside of my innermost waU, withoVl*
V&5
wak ^ S0 muc^ noisein getting over that it roust needs
it on mej *°r ^y.firct wal* nad now a comPjete roof over
sir]  & P°^s> covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
s:e of the hill; which was again laid t across with .smaller
n"c^instead oflaths, and,then thatched over a great.thick-
at tLWltl1 ^ -rice-straw, .which was strong, like, reeds y and
laM hoie or Place wbich was ^-to S° ll* or out *?7 tlle
aaer, X had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had teen
w> ^pted ojyhe outside, would not have opened at all, but
?^Mve fallen down, and made a great noise :, as fo. wea-
P°ns/I took, them all into my side every night. But I needed
j 0l)e °Fall this precaution -, for never man had a more faithful,
?Vl"S* sincere servant, than Friday was to me j without pas-
l0ns> sullennes?, or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged y his
ery affections were tied to me, like,thpseof a child to a tather 5
T^.X dafe say, he wouldhave sacrificed his life for the saving
?me, upon any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies
8e gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me
^at I needed t6 use no precautions, as to my safety, on his
account
ihis frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
^°nder? mat however it had pleased God, in his providence,
arid in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
*9 great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to
Much their faculties and the powers pf their souls are adapted,
^tthat he has bestowed Upon them the same powers, the
§arne reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kind-
fiess and obligation, the same passions and resentments-of
^GOgs,' the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all
^e capacities of doing good and receiving good, that he has
&ven to us 5 and that when he pleases to offer them occasions
Sexeqing these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply
etn to the right uses for which they were bestowed, than we
ire« This rnade me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting,
little several occasions presented, how mean a use we make of
lii'these, even though we have these powers enlightened by the
p£afc lamp of Instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the know-
?$ge of his word added to our understandings and.why it has
P^sed God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many mil-
il?fls" of souls,' who, !if I might judge !by this poor savage, would
^keafnuch tetter use of it than we did. from hence, I sorne^-
jifpes was led toofar, to invade the sovereignty of Providence,
^4 as it^ were arraign the Justice of so arbitrary a disposition of
^%9j that should hide that light fr^ora some, and reveal it to
»1(RJ . ABVEtfrtrfcts dir
others, and yet expect a like tfuty from both; but f *sH«t tf ^
and checkecUmy thoughts with this cPnciusrori r first, ?^at Jj
<did not^know by what light and law the^e Should be cqnd^mD^V
i>ut that as God was necessarily, and, by the nature ot his'beMSJ
infinitely holy and juat, so it could not be, bat if these creatitfj|
-Were all sentenced: to absence frdm'himself, it was on account -
inning against that light, which, as the Scripture says, ^^
law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences WO7
Acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was rip* ^
covered to us; and, secondly, That still, as we all are the'iW
in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to hun/M^I
hast thou formed me thus?
But to return to my ndjw companion:—1 was greatly^*
lighted-with hini, and made it my'business to teacn him eS&j
thing that was proper to rptalte him useful, handy and helpfwj
but especially to mafce him speak, and understand me whe^*
spoke: and he was the apte$t scholar that everwas^ andp3^
tieularly was so merry, so constantly diligent^ and sppje&$$
when he could but understand me, or make me unijersta^
him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now,**1?
life began to be §0 easy, that,I bes^n to say tp myself, &£>
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not *»
i was never to remove from the pjace whdfe 1 Jived.
After I had been t^wo or three days returned to.rm/ caS^fj
I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from \&$ hotw
way of feeding, and from tjie relish pf a cannibal's stomach; *
ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took him out with M
one morning to the woods; I went, indeed, intending to lei**
a kid out of my own flock, and bring it horne and. dress JW
but as I was going? I saw a she-goat jying dqwn in the'shad^
and two young kids sitting by her. ' I catched ftpld offty'i,
day;—"Hold, says I; «tand still j and made signs fi> hjm tiQV
to stir: immediately I presented my piece, shot, and kitted d&
of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance, '&"
deed, seen me kill the savage, his en^my, but djd not know) '&#
could imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised, ftrejfl*
bled and shook, and looked so ania^e^ fi^at I thpi^ght ^
would have sunk down. He did not, see the ^\d> I shpl at/ <&
perceived I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to fe?*
whether he was npt wounded j ai\d^ as I found presenftfe
thought I was resolved to kijl him: for he came apd kneefeil
down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many tbip£s
I did not understand; but I could easily seethe meaning W*5'
to pray me not to kill him.
^0VS^ found <a„ Way to convince him that I would do him
-and ^; taking, .-hitmup* by the ihandy t laughed at him,
"to^Wtog to the kid* which I had -killed, beckoned to him
and 1** • ^^ lt' wnicn fle dui: and wi"le he Was wondering
looking:to^ee,how the creature wars kitted, fI loaded my
tin? a'n* &y a°^ by»L saw a iSTeat fow1, *ike a ^^k/slt-
jjtJ? uP°a a tree, within-shot 5 so, to let Friday understand a
theV^at * would. dor I tailed him to me again, -pointed tit
^*°M, which was indeed a; parrot, though I thought it had
atid*1 * llawlt > I .say,'pointing to the parrot, and to my gun,
mak • ^ §rounc* under the parrot, to let him see I would
toll t^* ^' * mac*e m understanc* tnat * would sn00t an&
;m ^ bird; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and
etuM 5tely J^ saw/the parrot fall. He stood like one fright-
ffl agam, notwithstanding all I had said to him; and I found
"t't Wa? l^e more amazed, because he did not see me put any
^ l^ into the gun, but thought that there must be some Won-
^r*y fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
£&>j b§ast, bird, or any thing, near or far off; and the aston-
IsWent this created in him was such, as could not wear off
^r a long time; and I Relieve, if I would have let him, he
. °uld have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself,
ile Would not so much as touch it for several days after 5 but
e Would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him,
t hn lie was by himself; which, as 1 afterwards learned of
?% was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his aston-
ptaeht was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and
fe*9h the bird il had shot, which he did, but staid some time;
5< the parrot not being quite dead, had fluttered away a good
^apce from the place where she fell: however, he found her,
£°k W up, and brought her to me; and as I had perceived
£ Jgnorapce about the gun before, I took this advantage to
r^rge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I
^htbe ready for any ouier mark that might present; but
n°thing more offered at that time: so I brought home the kid>
ail(i the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well
**> I could j and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or
^wed some of the flesh, and made some very good broth,
^ftfcr J had begun to eat some, I gave 'some to my man, who
See*fced vqty glad taf it, and liked ir very well; but that which
^ strangest to him, was to see me eat salt with it. He made
iVfi'lgri tp me that the salt was not good to eat; and putting a
J,ttle into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
H»it and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after
it: on the mother hand, I took some meat into my month Wit*!
out salt,.and I. pretended to spit and fcptrtter fdr want* of ^
as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would not ^°^t
would never care for salt with his meat or 'infet$ brothl
least, not for ,3 great,while, and then buta very-lfttfe. - - * ,v
Haying tjiujjifed him -with boiled meat and btoth, I ^*Tg
solved^ feast him the next day with; roasting ar piece <^JPj
kifai this I <Ud, by hanging it before the fir6 ort a stringi ^
had seen many people do in England, setting two polei W
one, on -each side of-the fire, and one across on'the top; andv}^'
ing the string to the cross, stick, letting the'meat turn ^K
nually. This Friday admired very much; but wheri he'c^tf
to taste the tiesh, he took so many-ways to tell me how ^
he liked it, -that I could not but understand him; atidtft ^\
Jie told roe, as well as he could, he would never eat man's fl^?
any more, which I was very glad to hear. r
The next day, I set him to work to beating some corn"&}[
and. sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed befi^j'
and he soon understood how to do it as- well as I^'especiW
after he had seen what the-meaning of it was, and that \t^
to make bread of it; for after that I let him see me make f?7
bread, and bake it too; and in a little time Friday was abtet0
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself. .
I be*gan now to consider, that having two* mouths to fee
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harVetff
and.plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; so}
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in ^e
same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only very
willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and Itcy
him what it was for; that it was for corn to make morebfea^
because he was now with me, and that I might have enough
for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible' of '*#?
part, and let me know that lie thought I had much tadtf^
hour upon me on his account, than I had for myself; and tn^
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him ^|j3
to do.
This was the pleasatitest year of all the life I led-hV'djj'
place j Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand ^
Dames of almost every thing I had occasion to call for, ari<^*
every ,place I had to send him to, and talked a great deal'1?
me, so;maty in short, I began now to have some vtefottyf
tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion fonf^jl
fore, that is to say* about speech. Besides the pleasure^**
talking-to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow hii"^
self: his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me more anC*
t&ore every d$yg and, I began really to love die creature j and,
°Q.his side, I believe itc loved me more> than it was possible
^r&m ey$x to* lov§ any thing before.
I ha4 3, mind once to try if he.had any hankering- ihclinatiou
feliis own country again; and hating tau|hf litrri English so
^«U th^t he eooid answer me almost any question, I asked
??m whether tfee natioa that he belonged to never conquered
jApattle? At which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always
%ht the better:" that is, he meant, always get the better in
%ht i and so we began the following discourse:
Master. You always fight the better j How came you to
be taken prjsOner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation t>eat much, for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken?
[Friday. They more many than my nation in the place
Miere roe was; they take one, two, three, and me'j my nation
Qver beat them in the yonder place, where me no was; there
*fty nation take que, two, great thousand.
Master. But wjiy did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies then?"
Friday,, They run one, two, three, and me, and make go
.*Mh.e canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they tajce *? Do they carry them away and eat them, as
fesedid?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
-&fece^
mastfr. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I have T>een here; (points to the N. W,
s*de of the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
.if By this I understood that my man triday had" formerly been
*tnong the savages who used to come on shore on the farther
:|art of the island,, on the same man-eating occasions he was
$ow,brought for $ and, some timcafter, when I look the cou-
rage to carry him ,to, that side, being the same I formerly men-
^gned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was there
^jnce ,'wheri they eat up twenty men, two women, and one
Jhild| Ibe could not tell twenty in English, but he numbered
t V0L- !• i
them, by laying so many stones in a row,, and pointing, to,ffi
to tell them over.
1 have told this passage, because it introduces what follow^
that after I had this discourse with liim/X asked rum tow frf
it was from our island to the shore, arid whether tne caqoS*
were not" often lost. He told me there was no danger.., noc,a;
noes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to spa, there was
a current and wind, always one way in the morning, the p^f
in the afternoon. This I understood to be no more than.#
sets of the tide, as gomg out or coining in; but I afterwaf<J*
understood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflu* <?*
the mighty river Oroonoko, in the aioutti or gulph of whtejj
river, as 1 found afterwards, our Island lay j and that this ty™
which I perceived to the W. and N. W. was Uje great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I as)«f#
Friday a thousand questions about the cpuntry, the inhabitants*
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me *»»
"he knew, with fhe greatest openness imaginable, I asked.niflj
the names of the several nations of his sort of people, but con"
get no other name than Caribst from whence I easily under-
stood, that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on
the part of America which reaches from the mouth of die fiver
Oroonoko to Guinea; ana onwards to St. Martha. He ^old top
that up<a great way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the
setting of the moon, which must be west from their country*
there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to njjj
great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they fc*J*
killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I iu*<fer*j
stood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America
has been spread over the whole country, and were remembered
by ail the nations, from father to son. ,'
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from tit/*
island and get among those white men: he told me, " ?f^
yes, you may go in two canoe.*' I could not understand wW
he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by tV
canoe •, till, at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant >
must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This.partlo.
Widkfs discourse began to relish with me very well >y an<JTrtgP
this time T entertained some hopes that, one time or'otf^vfi
might find an opportunity to make my escape From thls'jp^
and that this poor savage might be a means to help m#. ,a
During the long time that Friday had now "been wither*;
Zrid that he began to qpeafc to me,* and understand me, I /****
*tot wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his
^ind: particularly I asked hirn one time, who made him? The
poor creature did not understand me at all, bat thought I had
a$ked him who was his father : but I took it up by another han-
dle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked
*>n, and the hills and wood*? He told me, it was one old Be-
ttamuckee, that lived beyond ail j he could describe nothing
°f this great person, but that he was ve*y old, much older, he
*aid, than the sea or the land, than the*noon orthe star*. I
*sked him then, if this old person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and
^ith a perfect look of innocence said, "All things say O to
him." I asked him if the people who die in ht9 country went
*Way any where? He said, yes; they all went to Benamuckee:
then I asked him whether these they eat up went thither too?
He said, yes.
From these things i began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all things
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven j that he governed
the world by the same power and providence by which he
rnade it \ that he was omnipotent, and could do every thing
for us, give every thing to us, take every thing from us $ and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
heing sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making oar
prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even in heaven,
fte told me one day, that if our God could hear us up beyond
the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Benamuc-
kee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak
to, him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him?
fife said, no; they never went that were yaung men -, non^e
^ent thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowoka-
fcce j that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious*
°r dergy j and that they went to say O, (*o he called saying
Prayers,) and then came back, and told them what Benamuo-
Vse said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
^nipng the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world j and
the policy of making a secxet of religion, in order to preserve
tHe veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to be
found in the Roman,, but pediaps among alj religions in the
^orld, evejn among the most brutish and barbarous savages
t endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and
tald him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the
-mountains to say O to their god Benamuckee*was a chea--?
-and their bringing word from thence what he said was mud*
more so j that if they met with any answer, or spake with an/
one there, it must be with an evil spirit * and -then J entered
into a long discourse with him about the Devil, the on*
iginalfqf him, hi s^rebelliqn,against God, h\senmity toman, tjje
feasor) of it,, his setting himself up in the dark parts of tl*
^"world to ,be worshipped instead of God, and as God,-and *b?
piany stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to th#r
ruin j how he had a secret access to our passions and to Q&
jajfections, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, as to
,cp\iae us even to be our own tempters, and run upon our &'
.struction by.our own choice.
I found it-was not so easy to imprint right notions in h*8
fmlhd about die Devil, as it was about the being of a God':
nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even tb?
necessity of a great. First Cause, and overruling, governing
'Power, a secret, directing Providence, and of the equity att^
justice of paying homage to him that made us, and, the HkQiJ
Jbut therii appeared nothing of this kind in.the notion of an eyi' <
spirit -,t of his original, his being, his nature, and,'above all, of
'Jiis'inclination to r-do evil, and to draw us in to do so toa-
arid the" poor creature puzzled me once' in such a manner, by
Si' question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce kne>^
what to say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of
the power of God, his omnipotence, his aversion to sin, his
being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he
liad made us all, lie could destroy us and all the world in a
moment; and he listened with great seriousness to me all the
while^ After this, I bad been telling him how the Devil was
God's enemy lq the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and sklirto defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin
-the kingdom -of Christ in the world, and the like. "Well/*
says Friday, u but you say God is so strong, so great 3 is be
riot much strong, much might as the Devil ?"—" Yes, yes/'
says I, "Priday, God is stronger than the Devil: God is above
fhe Devil, and therefore we pray to God to treadliim clown
under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and
quench his fiery darts."—"But," says he again, *• if (*od
much Strbriger, much might as the Devil, why God no kill me
ftevil, so mdke him no more 80 wicked '** 'I was. strangely
surprised at this question 5 and, after all, though I \yas now. an
old man, yetTwas bui a yOung "doctor, and ill Qualified'for a
casuist, or a solver of difficulties j and^ at first, I could not tell
^m. *£ say; *° * Pretended not t0 hear nm1> an<* asked*
^iWhat he said;, but- he was too earnest for an answer
brok^* ^ ^ue5t*0£* so that'he, ,repeateci it in the yevy same
self w Worc*s as above. By this time I had recovered my*-
'^VWHjfo and.X said,, ?,. God will at last punish iim seyerely;
gM* reserved for, the judgement, and is, to be cast into.the?
-^Wesspit, tp 4weli,with everlasting fire.'* This did mbfe
\< p y ?rMay 5 but lie returns upon me, repeating: ray worcfy
tii n"^ ^ ^ast,f'' Me no understand j but why: not Jsdll^
W Devjl npw j npt kill great ago ?"—" You may as well ask*
^ > said Il: fC w,hyv God does not. kill you and me, whea-
^ do wicked things here that offend him? We are preserved
ff ^Pent and be pardoned.'! JHLe mused some: time, on this:
Vvell, well," says he* mighty affectionately, " that .well^.sO'-
&u> ^> Dpy^il, all wicked,;all preserve, repent, God pardon alii**
'e>{$^,Wj|s.jrufl dp^n again by him to the last degree; and it
'^?Atesfimppj;tf).rrie, Jipw the mpre notions of nature, though
Sfjy,wiirguide;r^asonabl^;creatures ,to tjie, fcnowjedge of a.
VfPd>;imd o£aiwojsfxippr^piiige-iiiejq the supreme^ heing
%CfQ(l?ra^ the ,conse<5uence,of our nature, yet nothing but-di-
toefrevelation.ca^fprm the knowledge of Jesus Christy,and
^rede^upfipp purchased for us, of a Meditator of the new co-
|ffiapi*/a!f; Pf 3n Intercjesspr at the footstool of God's throne -,
tsay> ^¥iing but a revelation f from Heaven can fprm these
*Jffhe spul; and tha^ therefore, th^gpspeipf pur I^ord and
^Vipur %us.Christ, I.mean:Jth.eWprd of God, and tjie Spirit'
• ft >?q^fc,prjJP^}se4 for the.gujdeapdsanctifierof his popple, ar#
-$e;.absolutely, jnecessary instructors of t\]e souls, pf.mep^njthef
^^SjW\y]$^ rneaps of salvatipp,:i4V;.„'".
Jii^^rhf^fe,^\yep.ci the,present discpurse between''me and
"'S?i5?.an> rvupg up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of
?P$g but j Jthep sending him for something a good way prTrJ
i5?^[^sjy prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct
SaQ5gIy"this poor savage }, assisting, by his. Spirit, the/beart^of
feppor, ignorant creqture to receive the light of the knowledge
%Go3 jn Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would.guide ,
^^o'speak so to him fromthp word of God, 'asjhis, conscience,}
jSj]gh{^econvince3? his eyes.opened,.andhis soul saved, WJien
£-^sifljeJao^ain to jrrie, T jeiiter^ci.into a lon§. discourse witK.l^irn
^o^tlip subject of the redemption, of rnan by^the.S,avipur7,of
%1^*i^^*^i!'?r^- ^ *^^ .^PF*1^1*?" .°f MVr gpspel/preache'd from
V&3K?^VV?# P^ rePCRtappe towards! 'Go'4, "apd faith, m/our.
-$$$&$>*& %^/^X%n cxpjaine^ to him^ as/w$l asaI
C8H^;iif%°^r'^ts^^e^^^ iopk not 9A ^irn trie,riature.
of aogels, but the seed of Abraham 5 &n& ihow, for that re#*
son, ths fallen angels^had no share? in the redemption 5 that b^
came only to the lost slieep of the house* of-Israel, andth$f
likev > - * •,• -*> > ' --' v  "'' f'
j J had, Godvknows, more sincerity than knowtedgein all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction,1 and rm#tl
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same prftJ**
ciple will find, that in laying things opefr to him, I really hv
ffirmeiand Instructed myself in many things that either I di»
notJcttow^or had not fully considered before, but which <&*
curred naturally to my mind upon searching into them, ft*
the information of this poor savage; and I had more affection
in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt
before: so that, whether this poor wild wretch was the better
for me or no> I had great reason td be thankful' that ever h&
came to me j my grief i&t lighter upon me; my habitation gretf"
comfortable tome beyond measure: and when I reflected, thak
in this solitary life which Ihad been confined to, I had not;
only been moved to look up to 'Heaven myself, and to seek to
the hand that had brought me here, but Was now ta be macte
an instrument, under Providence, to save the fife, and, for ought
I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true
knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, whert 
I reflected :Upon all these things, a secret joy ran through every'
part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I waV
brought to this place, which I had so often thought the most
dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen mei*
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of top
time j and the conversation which employed the hours between'
Friday and me was such, as made the three years which we|
lived there together perfectly and completely happy, if any'
such thing as complete happiness can be formed In a sublunary^
state. This savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I; though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it/
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored peni-
teots;. We had here the word of God to read, and no fartheC
off from his Spirit to Instruct, than if we had been in England;-
I always applied myself,.in reading the scriptures, to let him
know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read; and he*
again, by his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, *»$*;"
said before, a much better scholar in the scripture-knowledge *
than I should eyer have been by my own mere private read-A
ing. Another thing I cannot refrain from observing here also*
from experience, in this retired part of my life, viz. how infi*
***• and meapresttble a blessing it is that the knowledge* of
t0** and of the doctrutei of ealvaiion by Christ Jesus> is s>
^j^yrlaiA down- ixx th&word of God, so-easy to-be received
a°tf understood, that, as. the bare reading the scripture roacte
^sapahte'of understanding Enough of my duty tb.«ariy me
Meetly ojj, to thr great work oi sincere. repentance! f^Trtyrsins,:
aQ(* iaystng, liold of arSaviour fct&ife and salvatioo^toa^tattsd
e*onsnatton in practice* and obedience to all Gad's c*mmandB,
J*d this without any teacher at instructor, I mean human ?\ so>
j**5 same plain, instruction sufficiently served to^the enlightening
^ ^age creature, and bringing him to be such ai€hristiaa>,
**,a av* k1*0^11 te^w equal to/Mm in my. life. :- ir .
^tb all the disputes, wrangling1, strife, -aiKT'ctatefltiony
"tohkh inrre happened m the worid about religiori; whether
^etiet in doctrines, orscfaereestof churcb^goreinnient, they
^re all perfectly roeeles^ta us, andy for ought I caw yet seeK
^J* have > been «a to the> pest of the world.' We had the sure
]5**de to hea.veri> viz* the/Word of QoA^^od we had> blessed
r6 God, comfortable view* of the'Spirit of < God'teaching and
^st^uctiBg- usf^byn fair wordy .leading! us. infa aH truth, and
taking.<«**both willing and fcbedtent to the instruction of his
^OrdvMtAntt I cannot see the least *ose that the greatest know-
ledge of the disputed points in religion, which hate made such
confusions in the world, would have been ta us, if we could
have obtained it.—BuH must go on with me historical part,
*tf things, and take every part in its brderv -
-After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and
that he Kould understand almost all I said td him, and speap:
l^ttyxftuentiryi though in broken English, to me, I acquainted
***** with my <rwn history, or at least so much of it as related
t& my coming' to this place; how I had lived here, and how
*°3g: I let him into the royfetery, for such it was ta him, of
S^powder and bullet^ and taught him how to shoot. I give
fort* a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with' ,* arid-I
J^adehim a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
w* wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I
8ay6 him a hatchet, which was not only as good a wgapon> ift
8°twe cases, but much rnoue useful upon other occasions.
1 described to him the country of Europe, particularty Bng^
fe&tfl Whkh I came from j how we lived, how we worshipped
Qod, how* we behaved to one another* and how ^we traded ta
*b*pMo all parte of the- worldt ' I gave him an account1 of the
**&«& which I had been otrboard aft and showed hirm as near
** trcexijdi tbfc P^ \ejbere she Jay 5 but sher Wa*s all beaten hi
vl£6 <ADVB»TUBBS>OF
ipie,ces before) and gone. I showed him the ruins tif our boa*>
which we lost^when we escaped, and *which' * It could" not *&
withr royvwhole -strength then *,• bub war now* fallen- 'almost^1
*o pieces. Upon* seeing: this boaty Friday stdodrmusingia P*^\
whiles and said nothing. ~ ,"I askecLhimvwhat it wasrhfrstuditf*
.upon ?i At'last j says<he, <' Me see such boat like come to^la*^
jat'my.iiat3O0i?'':: I* did >notUnderstand/him; at good wMe fbok
.at kstyiwhen I thad.examined farther - into h% i 'understood^
.bim^rtbafca boat; such as that had beenv came on shore upO*1
;the)€Oi^itcy whereiheJived; that is,-as he'.explained it, w#
diiven.iiiitherby stress of weather., I presently imagined tha*
some European, ship onust( have been cast away .upon theft
coast, and)the boat might get loose, and drive ashore; butw**5
so dull, that.L never once thought of men making their escap6
from a wrecktthither> much less whence they might come; **°
1 only inquired after a description of the,boat. ^ / ,.„ *v ^
, ;Friday,described.the boat tome well enough? butbrough*
me^beUeri to. understand)him when he, added, with sofl#
warmth, « We.save the white mans from;drown,'f> Then*!
•presently asked him, if there; were any white mans,; ^as lie caB"
AA them, in-the; boat? if Yes," heisaid;; /« theboat full d
white raansr'. I asked hini how many? He told,upon his
fingers seventeen, I askeH him then what became of them?
He told me, ?'.They ^ve^they dwell at my nation.'jV, .;„, r;
:. .Thb^put^jnewiithottghts into myrhead* for I presently Ima-
gined that these might ,be the men belonging to the ship>that
was .fcast away -in the sight of my island, as I nowicalledjti
andjwho,:after the ship was struck.on the rock,,andtheysatf
her.inevitably lost> had saved themselves in < their boatj :and
w^rejandedupon that wild shore among the. savages.,. Upon
fchi& -tinquired'> pft;him more [critically what was„becomei flf
them j he assured me they lived still thetfe;; ,that they had been
therei about fourj year!* j. that. the < savages let,them alon§jn and
gave them victuals tojiv.e on. I asked him how ft. came J#
pass they^id not kill»tbem,and eat them £ He said, (\ Np„th$f
make brother with them s"t that is, as J understood him,; a trucej
#nd thesjiq added, ". They no eat mans but when, mak&&9
wat fight j'Vtha.t ist to say, they njeyej eat any men but suc&
,as iCpme t to fight, w j&i them* and, are> taken, in battfe. ; .; t.»;
r It was .after this some considerable, time,, that being upoil
the top of the,lull, at theea,st side.pf the island, from whence
as I havesaidiJ ha4> in a;cle^r day; discovered *he main vor cqn-i
tinsnt of America', Friday, the weather; being very, seren^i
jtooks yery earnestly towards the, main land^and, ;in4a &na! Q&
fc'-vS*66* ^S a JUDQPinS and dancing, arid calls out to me, for
Hjan* at *°me ^tance ^rom ^m -^ asked him what was the
iter > .<* O joy!" says he j "O glad! there see my country,
a re ^y nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of plea*
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled* and hiscoun-
^ance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind
he in his own country again; This observation of mine put
great *riany thoughts into me, which made me at first not so
~**Y about my new man Friday as I was before ;• and I made*
* doubt but that if Friday could get back to his own nation
vplI}» he would not only forget all his religion, but all his ob-
*!£tion to me, and would be forward enough to give his
°ntrymen an account of me, and come back perhaps with,
^hundred or two oi them, and make a feast upon me, at
*hich he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his-
nemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the
P°°r honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me.
^me weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so fa1*
miliar and kind to him as before? in which I was certainly
*& the wrong too j the honest, grateful creature, having no
thought about it, but what consisted with the best principles,
both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful friend; as ap-
peared afterwards, to my full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
Gvery day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which I suspected were in him: but I found
everything he said was so honest aad so innocent, that I cduld
™i nothing to nourish ray suspicion; and, in spite of all my
"^easiness, he made me at last entirely his own again; nor
^ he, in the least, perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore
•*c°uld not suspect him of deceit.
k One day, walking up the same hill, but the Weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called
*° him, and said, *« Friday, do not you wish yourself in your
°wn country, your own nation?"—" Yes," he said, <f I be
^uch Oglad to be at my own nation.'*—" What would you da
there ?'* said I: "Would you turn wild again, eat men's
flesh again, and be a savage, as you were before?" He looked
fcil;Of concern, and shaking his head; said, "No, no; Friday
teU them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk j no eat man again?"—" Why
fheft/* said I to him, <( they will kill you." He looked grave
** that, and then said, <f No, no$ they no kill me, they
12
willing: love 16am.*? Hemeanttoy this, they would be willing?
toilfcam. Be added/they learned much of the bearded mans
that mmerm the boat. Theti I asked him if be would g^
back, to them? He smiled at that, and told me that he cotild
not swim so far, I told him, I would make a canoe for bio1*
He told me he would go, if I would go with him* '< I goV
says I j 1'why, they will eat me, if I come there."-^" N<#
bo," says he 5 ** me make they no eat you ; .me make they
much love< youiM He meant, he would tell them how I had
killed Ms-enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make
them love me. Then he told me, as well as he could, ho^
kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, &
he called them, who came on shore there in distress, r
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over* and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I
made no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese: not doubting
but if I could, We might find some method to escape Iron*
thence, being upon the continent, and a good company toge*
ther, better than I could from an island forty miles off the
shore, and alone, without help. So, after some days, I* took
Friday to work again, by way of discourse -, and told him I
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation j and ac-
cordingly I carried him to my frigate, which Jay on the other side
of the island, and having cleared it of water (for I always kept
it sunk in water) I brought it out, showed ithim, and<we
both went int6 it. > I found he was a most dexterous fellow at
managing it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I
could: so when he was in, I said to him, " Well, now,-Friday*
shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull at mjr saying
so j which, it seems, was because he thought the boat too small
tO'gbstf far: I then told him I had a bigger; so the./next
day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I had
made, but which I could not get into the water. He said, that
was big enough: but then, as I had taken no care of it, and
it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the jsun had
split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.. Frida^told
lie such a boat would do very well, and would carry; muck
enough'vittle, drink', bread j that ivas>his way of talking, v I
1 Upon'the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my?desig&
of going over with him to the continent, that I told himv^
would go and make one as big as that; and he should* go torne
in it: He answered not one word, but looked very graro and
sad/ I asked; him'what-was the* matter with him? iHe.askcd
me agaift> *' Why .you angry;mad with.Friday^<h What jntre
r^*" T Asked'him. what-he meant?1 I told him I was.
j^'anfery with htm at all.- "No angry!" says hfc, repeating
?*e words several times 5 " Why send Friday home away to
^'nation V—" Why/* says I, " Friday, didnot you say, won
^bed yoii were there -?'*—" Yes> yes," says he, "wish be both
here j no wish Friday there, no master there.'* In a worcU
^woutd not think of going there without me. "I go. there,
**iday V9 says I; "what shall I do there >" He returned verv
*l*k upon me at this j "You do great deal much good,
^ys he; «* you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans$
J°u tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—
Ala*! Friday," says I, " thou knowest notvwhat thou sayest\
)^ but an ignorant man myself."—" Yes, yes,M says he,
Jo\x teachee me good, yoti teachee them good.v—" No, no,
*riday," says I, " you shall go without me > leave me here to
llv« by myself, as I did before." He looked confused again
at that word i and running to one of the hatchets which he
^edto wear> he takes it up hastily, and gives it txxme. *f What
*?Ust I da With' thte?,f says I to him. "You take kitf Friday,*
*ays he. w What must I kill you for?** said I again. He re-
turns very quick, "What you send Friday away for? Take
kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly,
that I saw tears stand in his eyes: in a word, I so plainly dis-
covered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resohu
*ion in him, that I told him then, and often afterj that I would
fcever send him away from me, if he was willing to stay with
*ne,
-Upon the whole, as t found, bv all his discourse, a settjed
Section to me> and that nothing should part him from me, 50
^ found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own coun-
try was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes
^my doing them good 5 a thing, which, as I had no notion of
myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire
*f undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the supposition
gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen
bearded men there: and, therefore, without any more delay,
* wept to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
foil,-and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the
^yagei. 3liere were trees enough in the island to have built
*lUtrle fleet, rtot of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large
vessels v but the main tiling I looked at was to get one so near
*he< water that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid
^he mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a
*§P APTJfNTUBES *>F
tr$p j fo^ I found he,fcnew much belter than, I what kind of
,w;bpd was Attest for .it j nor, can I tell, to this day, what wood
to caliche .tree we cut down, except that it was very like tbt'
tree we call fustic, or. between that and the Nicaragua wood>
for.it was much of the same qolour and smell. Friday v/3*
for burning the hoi Jaw or., cavity of this tree out, to make'if;
for a boat,, but Ishowed him how to cut it with tools-; whicfcs
( after I had sjipwed him how to use, he did very handily :* and
in about a.rppnth's hard labour we finished u, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed
him how. to handle, we cut and hewed die outside into the true *
shape of a Boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon
great rollers into the water; but when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and.though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along; so
I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over in her? \
"Yes," he said; " we venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind." However, I had a farther design, that he
knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and
to fitter with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar
tree, which I found near the place,' and which there were
great plenty of in the island: and I set Friday to work to cut.'
it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order it
But as to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew J had
old .sails, or ratjher pieces of old sails enough; but as I had hail
them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been very,
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever have:
this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all
rotten, and, indeed, most of them were so; however, I fount}
two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with these^I
went to work; and with a great deal of pains, and aukwarcf
stitching, you may be, sure, for want of needles, I, at length;'
made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder-of*mutton sail, to go with/a boom at bottom,
and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships'
long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage-
as it was sucl* a one I imd to the boat in which I made mf
escape frorpjBarbary, as related in the first part of my story,,
I was near^wqjiionths performing this last work, viz. rig-
ging and fitting, my, mast an,d sails ^ for J finished them very
to. ^vtGi Wiping a small stay, and a sail, or fore-sail, to it,
^Or'^C* ^ W^ s^lou^ turn t0 windward; and, which was
1 w ' - n ^> * fixed, a rudder to the stern of her to steer with,
fles^ * a bungling ship-wright, yet, as I knew the useful-
So s* a$d even necessity of such a thing, 1 applied myself with
c^.^l> pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though,
I tL* rfnStne niany dull contrivances 1 had for it that failed,
.M^nk it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat,
^h all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
kn el°nged to the navigation of my boat j for though he
helnV Ver^ we^ *10W t0 Pa<^^^e a canoe, ne knew nothing what
^3°nged to a sail and a rudder; and was the most amazed
jyA ? he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the
^ erj and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way, or that
f,y> as the course we sailed changed \ I say, when he saw
Vri! - stood like one astonished and amazed. However,
i £ a little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and
c^ ^came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass; I
, ^d make him understand very little of that. On the other
a?uV, as there wasv very little cloudy weather, and seldom or
eVer any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
^pass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, and
fte shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody
Cai£d to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
X was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of my
^ptivity in this place 3 though the three last years that I had
^ls creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account,
^K habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest
th ^fe ^me* } keP* tne anniversary of my landing here with*
H?^sanie thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first j and
* *&aci s"uch cause of acknowledgement at first, I had much
^ 0re4 so now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
Jrovidence over me, and the great hopes I had of being eftec-
Jiv and speedily delivered'3 for I had an invincible impres-
*[°-n Vp°n my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and
at t should not be another year in this place. I went on,
0M^ve{, with my husbandry 3 digging, planting, and fencing
s u?&sl j I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every ne-
es3DTtJiing as before.
% *^| rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I
eP^.more wjthin doors than at other times. We had stowed
 Ur n^w vessel as secure as we could, Winging her up into the
/.ree^ .wKere, as I said in Jhe, beginnings I landed, my rafts
ror$8vs*$ip.3 an^hauling^eitup to the shore, at high-water
mark, Imade my man Friday dig-a little dock, jOfilbigen^
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water eIi0^^
float in $ and then, when the tide was out,'we made a atrw
dam across the end of it, to keep the water: out j and so^
lay dry, as to the tide from the sea j and to keep the rain^r
we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick, that she ^f
as well thatched as a house j and'thus we waited for *r
months of November and December, in which I designed *"
make my adventure. -v'ji
When the settled season began to come in, as the though
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prep#*r
daily for the voyage: and the first thing I did was to lay W*
certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voya$*
and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the do$}
and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon so*^
thing of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him g° ^
the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise *
thing which we generally got once a week, for the sake of ^
eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long go°*'
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall* *?
fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set fc*J
feet on 3 and before I had time to speak to him, he cries &;
to me, "O master! O master! O sorrow! O bad1.^
f( What's the matter, Friday?" says I. « O yonder, theifr
says be, " one, two, three canoe 5, one, two, three/' By &*
way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inqui^
I found it was but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do ndt1**
frightened!" So I heartened him up as well as I could: howes^
I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing^!!
in his head but that they were come to look for him, and wo11'*}
. cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trem.b^
so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted hM*1^
well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger" as^y
and that they would eat me as well as him: "But," says^f'
"Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight> $&
day ?M—" Me shoot," says he; "but there come man/ g#*
number."—" No matter for that/* said,I, again; ¥* dur:gan5
will fright them we that do not kill." So I asked him whe&ef;
if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, andstand W
me, and do just as I bid him. He said, " Me die,whfenO^
bid die, master." So I went and fetched a good dram&f V*^
and gave Jbim 5 for J had beejn so good a husband of Sny**J?(
that I had a great deal left. When he drank it, J made,w£
take the two fowling-piecesy which we? always carried/andl^*
X0BIU50N CKUSOE. T83
theiHm Wltil lafge swan*shot> ** bJS as smaI3 pistol-bullets;
ajuj a to°k four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs,
a ^c SQlall bullets each; and my two pistols. I loaded with
jlar^j* ef bullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual,
£^ by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When 1 had
^, Prepatfed myself, X took my perspective glass, and went
j£ ? tn£ side of the hill, to see what I could discover 5 and I
say ^u*ckty* ty my glass, that there were one and twenty
tuj^68* ^ree P^sotiers, and three canoes -, and that their whole
}ju ness seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three
^1 at* bodies 5 a barbarous feast, indeed \ but nothing more
that* ? * ^a(* observed, was usual with them. I observed also,
Hlad k^ were *an(*ed> not wnere they had done when Friday
W C escaPe>but nearer to my creek: where the shore was
^ 'ai*d where a thick wood came almost close down to the
•' Thisy with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
e*ches came about, filled me with such indignation, that I
ftie dawn again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go
0vv*i to them, and kill them all; and asked him if he would
fj^d by me. He had now got over his fright, and his spirits
^ng a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was
£»y cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I
**i die:
in this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
^^ed, as before, between us: I gave Friday one pistol to
^k in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
*^kt>ne pistol, and the other three guns myself) and in this
«**tnre we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my
jWfet, and gave Friday a large bag with more4 powder arid
IJJJ^^i and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind
r^and not to stir, or shoot, or do any thing, till I bid him ^
jjM1* the mean time, not to speak a word. In this posture,
'fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well
|^?et over the creek as. to get into the wood, so that I migjit
jfv 6 ^tnin shot of them before I should be discovered, which
^d seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.
Wfofte 1 was making this march, my former thoughts ro-
ttt&tng, I began to abate my resolution: I do not mean that
J^&ntertained any fear of their number j for, as they were
j^kedUnarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them;
*7>- though I had been alone. But it occured to my thoughts*
kat call, what occasion, much less what necessity I was in,
r^gci and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
^i&sr^lctae or intended meiany wronc? "Who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own ^R
ter; being, in them, a token indeed of God's having,W
them, with the other nations of that part of the' world, to s^fir
stupidity, and to such inhuman courses, but did not call Al
to take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much Iess.jgr
executioner of his justice; that, whenever he thought #*, ^
would take the cause into his own hands, and, by national vefl*
geance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes j but tb#>
in the mean time, it was none of my business; that, it.^r
true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared ene#}'
and in a state of war with those very particular people, 3#M
was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not say &
same with respect to myself. These things were so watfflJX
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolve
I would only go and place myself near them, that I might o\r
serve their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as GQ
should direct j but that, unless something offered that ^
more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not.med<f6
with them. ..
With this resolution I entered the wood 5 and, with *
possible wariness and silence, Friday following close at #y
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on tfc
side which was next to them, only that one corner of the vjo<^
Jay between me and them. Here I called softly to FricW'
and showing him a great tree, which was just at the cofO^
of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me W?{*j
if he could see there plainly what they were doing. He M
'so; and came immediately back to me, and told me tW
might be plainly viewed there j that they were all abo^_
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and .tW
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them, whif#j
he said, they would kill next, and which fired all the very $9$
within me. He told me it was not one of their nation*^,
one of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to thejjj
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the v#/
naming the white bearded man; and going to the tree, I $£\
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach ^
the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or, tippP
like rushes, and that he was an European, and had clothed °0'
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond .^ abPj11
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, whic?^
by going a little way about, I saw I might comeat uudisW*
vered, and that then I should be within half' a shot p£. t^n^I
50 I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged tqftB
$ Jghest degree; and going back about twenty paces, I got be-
^d some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
spa treei.aDd then came to a little? rising ground, which
Save me a full view of them, at the distance- of about eighty
_ I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dread-
'™ wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together,
$M had just sent the other two to butcher thtf poor Christian,
^*d bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; and they
J^re stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned
*° Friday—ff Now, Friday," said I, lc dp as I bid thee." Fri-
%" said he would. "Then, Friday," says I, '* do exactly
as you see me do j fail in nothing." So I set down one,df the
gaskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
^d the like by his; and with the other musket I took my dim
•?* the savages, bidding him to dp the like; then asking htm if
^ was ready, he said yes. "Then lire at them," said I;
^d the same moment I fired also. ;,
• Friday took his aim sp much better than I, that on the side
??at he shot, he killed two of tfyem, and wounded three more;
9lld on my side, I killed one, and wouaded two. They were,
fan may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them
Ho were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immedi-
ately know which way to run, or which way to look, for they
•*new not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept
flfs eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might ob-
,%ve what I did;' so, as soon as the first shot was made, I
*^rew down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, pnd Fri-
7^3t did the like: he saw me cock and present;- he did the
^tae again. '" Are yqu ready, Friday?" said 1.-—" Yes,"
i??ys'he. "Let fly, then," says I, " in the name of God!"
$]d with that, I fired again among the amazed wretches, and
*° did Friday , and as our pieces were. now loaden with what
(fcalled swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two
ifrop, but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
f£ld screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of
ftirn miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly after>
though not quite dead.
<.,;"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
ar»a taking up the musket which was yet loaden, " follow me j"
Hich he did, with a great deal of .courage: upon which I
^shed cut of the wood* and showed myself, and Friday close
?rtny foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted
5s loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too j and running a&
fast as I could, which, by the way, was *©t very fast, •!**&
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the F?
victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or ** ^jJ
between the place where they sat arid the sea, ^lS
butchers, who were just going to work with him, had 1^1*
at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terribJe frigW ^
the sea*side> and had jumped into a canoe, and' three,n*^i
of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, find ^
him step forwards/ and fire at themj he understood me ^
mediately, and running about forty yafds> to be nearer th#%
he shot at them; and I thought lie had killed them all, W
saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw &L
of them up again quickly r however, he killed two of themV $~
wounded the third so, that he lay down in the bottom of**&
boat as if he had been dead. "^
While my man Friday fireA at them, I pulled out my knJf
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing **
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him, in the Por^'
guese tongue, what he was. He answered, in Latin, C6rist£
anus $ but-was so weak and faint that he could scarce stan^
speak. I took my bottle but «jf my pocket, and gave it hi&>
making signs that he should drink, which he did j and I gp*
him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him wl#*
countryman he was; and he said, Espagniolej and being/
little recovered; let me know, by all the signs he could poss**
bly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliveraitf?'
"Seignior," said J, with as much Spanish as I could make W
"we will talk afterwards, but we must fight now: if f^
have any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay Ab##
you,.*' He took them very thankfully; and no sooner had'&*
the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour i^
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had tut ftf*>
of them in pieces in an instant; tbr the truth is, as the wh^
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so ftittf*1
frightened with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down #£
mere amazement arid fear, and had no more power to atte^pT
their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot r''an*
that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boa*'
for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so 8*,..
other two fell with the fright *i
I kept my piece in my hand strll without'firing, t*em^^D*
ing to keep my charge ready, because I had givefl the' Spaniard
my pistol and sword: so I called to Friday, and b^de hiii '***
wp to the tree from whence we first firod, and fetch the aflfl*
Rofittfsw trfcv^ofc. U?
^ats^vitheW ** h** ***** «***#* which he did with
mWfl i ^' ^ **** t**™% ****** *y musket, I sat dawn
WW .. ° ™d aU the rest again, ami bade them come to rue
Soe 4 wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there
tf tC a ^^ engagement between-the Spaniard and one
^ s^Sava^9' ^^ m2hfe at Wtt* *** one <>*" tb^ g^t ^ood-
^ft^S* tesarae*^# that was to hase killed Wrh
^d *> if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as
thi81*!? braTe as cm*d bcrmagined, though weak, had fought
°^ h k 3n a ^ood w*"*e* and bad cut ^m two great wounds
*%% -ad? btlt the savdS6 being * stout lusty fellow, eloi-
gn?'W**k **im> had thrown hiro down, bein£ faint, and was
th0u5in& my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard,
(^^ndertnoSt, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol
*fal i girdlej S^0t the 8avaSe t*111311?11 the body, an(* killecJ
*_ .upon the spdt, before I, who was running to heip him,
^g^ome near him.
w^3? being now left to hfs* liberty, pursued the flying
Wirt! ^ w'th ff° VfeaPetl *" *"s hahd but his hatchet j arid
^ that he dispatched those three, who, asr I said before, were
J^ded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up
<to* atU* ^ Sparnar<* cor™ng to me for a gun, I gave him
^of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the
^ Sges, and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to
,A *bey both got from him into the wood, where Friday ptn>
flS^*60*' killed one of them, but the other was too
Wm ^0r ^'m' anc* tb°ugb he was wounded, yet had plunged
tfc *^*nto ^e SQa> anc* swara> ^itb all his might, off to those
"** Mfho'were left in the canoe; which three.in the. canoe,
_W* one wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no,
^** all that escaped our hands of one and twenty; the ac-
j^nt of the whole is as follows: 3 killed at our first shot
*n k*c tree; 2 killed at the next *ot; e kllled by Fric*ay
j dje boat; 2 killed by Friday of those at first wounded j
^rljpd by Friday in the wood; 3 killed by the Spaniard $
or In d* being found dropped here and there of their wounds^
k_kille(j ^y Fri^y jn fc3 chaise of them; 4 escaped in the
^» thereof one wounded, if not dead.—Twenty-one in all.
^ 4 nose that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
I if ?^ot> ano* though Friday made two or three shots at therri,
. W not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain
ind mc ta^e one of tbeireanoes, and pursue them; and
^eed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest carrying
Sflewshame to their pebple;they should come back perhaps
with two or three, hundred of the canoes, and devour us %
mere multitude j so I consented to pursue; them by sea, ^
running to, one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade fn^l
follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprjs^
. find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and f°°*V
the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with &J
pot knowing what was the matter j for he had pot been aD|
to }6ok up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard U^
and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had realty *
littleW§ in him. -^
I immediately cut the twisted flags or-rushes, which $37
had bound him with, and would have helped him up j ^u!j^
could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, beli^
ing, St seems^ still, that he was only unbound in-order tat**
killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to b^J
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out.my bP^
made him give the poor wretch a dram 5 which, with the flSy
of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up intheb0*'
But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his 6°?
it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how AT
day kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laugb^
hollowed, jumped about, danced, sungj then cried a^1?'
wifung his hands, beat his own face and head j and then s^?8
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It W3S
good while before I could make him speak to me, or tell.'#?
what was the matter j but when he came a little to hims^*
he told me that it was hi* father. \<r'r
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to ^
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savjfw
at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from deaQy
nor, indeed, can, I describe half the extravagancies of his afW
tiori after this 3 for he went into the boat, and out of the l?Pa;J
a great many times: when he went into, him, he would',.?!
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head clo$<
to his bosom for many minutes together, ,to nourish it j. $?£
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed ana* }}$
with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his haflo?,'
and f, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rurri <?\
of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a £reat de*
ot good, , ... '•*£
This affair, put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with "^
oth$r savages,,who were now got almost out of ^ight; and i
Was happy for us that we dyi.not, for it blew so hard witp1^
(wo hpurs after/(a,nd before th'ey cpul4be.got a quarter of theff
*he Lf^ cont^nue^ blowing so hard all night, and that from
Pose L'/"west> which was against them, that I could not sup>
<Wt r ^0at cou^ hve, or tnat they ever reached :tlieir own
tHau* t0 return to 'Friday; he was so busy about his'&thejj
ttri C°U^ 110t- ^nc* lvi ™Y heart t0 ^a^e ^"^ °^" *°r ^on]e
j.^i but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
to rti^0 l?e* anc* ne came jumping and laughing, and pleased
fatT*6 highest extreme ;''then I asked him if he had given his
^u?* any bread. He shook his head, and said, "* None>
Sy-^og eat ail up self." I then gave him a cake of bread,
of a ||ttje p0uch | C3fried on purpose; I also gave him a
his> for. himself but he would not taste it, but carried it to
tather. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of rai-
&0'8j 80 * Save him a handful of them forhls father. He had
. sooner-given his father these raisins, but I saw him come
l °f.the boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched,
i?.*&n at/such a( rate j for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet
^?t everl saw'": I say, he ran at such a rate, that he washout
?r si§ht, as; it were, in an instant j and though I called, and
ftjjjow^d out too, after him, it was all-one, away he went; and
^ a quarter of an hour Isaw him come back again, though
°tso fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I found his
??Pe was slacker, because he had something in iiis hand.
$hen ha came up to me, I found he had been quite home
0r an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water*
??d that he had got two more cakes or loaves of breao* j the
?i$fd he gave me, but the water he carried to his father:
Soever, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little' slip of it!
ije water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits
%d given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called to him to know if there
.j?3« arry water left: he said yes; and I bade him give it to
jppoor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father 5
W I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the "Spa-'
S&fd too, who was indeed-very weak, and was reposing himself
SPpfta green place under the shade of a treej and whose
x^bs were also very "stiff, and very much swelled with the
£j*<fe bahdagei he had been tied with. When I saw that upon
^fiday's coming to him with the water he sat up and drank,
&$. took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him and gave
pi? a handful oT raisins: he looked up in my face with' air the
'?fens* of gratitude and thankfulness.that could appear iri any
c°Untenance *'W wasWnveak, notwithstanding he had ^so
Verted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet j, he tried to do it two or three times, hut was Teall/,5 j
able,. h'|s ankles were so swelled and go painful to him J Kj
bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ariklth '**
bathe them with rum, as he had done his fatherV ,,
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two ro*n^y
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his $r
about, to see if his father was in the same places and P°r?!
'as he left him sitting j and at last he found he was not to**
seen $ at which he started up, and, without speaking a iV°*
flew with that swiftness to hirrr, that one could scare© J|*C
eelve his feet to touch the ground as he went: but wbe&, jf
came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease ^
limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and then I sp$!
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and;J^
him to, the boat, and then he should carry him to ourdwelWJ
where I would take care of Mm: but Friday, a lusty sti^l
fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carTJfj-*
him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the si*
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it 5 #$
then lifting 4um quite in, he set him close to his father; #?
presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and p$
died it along the shore faster than I could walk, though t*
wind blew pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe i&#
our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fe<$
the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and ask6**
him whither he went. He told me, " Go fetch more boat-
so away he went like the wind, for sure never man or hotfS
run like him j and he had the other canoe in the creek alm$
as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and th^
went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he duty
but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor?&?
day knew not what to do. l
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and call*0?,
to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while lie came to
me, I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on/ aft?.
Friday and I carried them both up together upon it, .befc##&
us. But wh§n we got them to the outside of onr wall, #
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it tf#*,
impossible to gel them oyer, and I was resolved nc# J0".,
break it down: so I set to work again * and Friday vand I>J#'
about two hours time, made a very bandsOme tenfj c^vefle*t
wit|i old sails, and above that with boughs of trees, beirtg^
the space without our outward fence, and between that and th?]
grove pf young;wood wjuch I had planted; and here wetnafc
W^t?0^* 0t SUcil things as 1 had' viz< of £°°^ rice-straw,
^ feu iai(i Up°n il> t0 lie 0n> and anoth<*t0 coVer &&&,
^ suhl9*aad waStnow Peopled, and I thought myself'very rich
^d l ^8' an<* lt was a menT reflection, whteh I frequently
% °W like a king I looked. First of allrthe wholecorm-
Jight^ ^ QWn mere Foperty* s0 tnat I na& 'an undoubted
je!^^ dominion. Secondly, my people were perfectly sub-
ljw*j> * was absolutely; lord and lawgiver j they ail ovved
wT K5 *° "me' and weTe ready to lay down their lives,, if
^^^ been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable, too,
fkta tllt3ee sheets* and they were of three different reli-
7rs': twyman Friday was a Protestant, his rather was a
JalJ '^ndia cannibal* and the Spaniard was a Papist: however,
|Lf^ed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions:—
M^*%is t?y theivay.v
^^f^w a* I .had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
i^Slveu them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began
jjv**U)k.tQf making some provision for ihom j and tfhe fir^t
£®$I vdidv 1 ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, l*?twixt
^*ld a,nd a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed;
^ven I wt off the hinder-quarter, ami chopping it into small
K^es, I.set Friday to work to boiling arid stewing, and made
jjkto a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, hay*
^ Put some barley and rice also into the broth': ami as 1
^ked it without-doors, for I made no fire within my Inner
^v-**^ I carried it ail into the new tent, and having set a
• Pje there for, them, I sat down, and^at my own dinner also
WVttiem,. and, as well as I could, cheered them," and en*
^5raged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to his
t?T^r* and* indeed, to the Spaniard tooj for the Spaniard ^poke
^language of the savages pretty well.
oJ^ff ?we.had dined, orrather supped, 1 -ordered Fridayto take
J^$ the,cattoea> and^oand fetch our mu&ke'ts and other frre-
^W» which, for want »of time, we had left upon the place of
JWe; and* the next day, I ordered him'to go <and bury the
^^ bodies of the savages, which lay open to'lhe1 sun, and
^^pfqpentfy be oflfensivR. I also ordered hfen to bury the
•Jftnd lem&ins of their barbarous feast, *vhtch I knew were
^Hy rnuch* aad which I could not think <tf doing myself;,
wr u C0U^ "^ *3eac tosee ^m^ if I'went that xvay; rill
a™*1, he punctually -performed, and effaced!rafe v^ry.arjpear-
j^P Pf tj^ savages being, theuej; so that wheirl'wttoiagain,
n ^W^^arce iknow whsrait^as, otfefcrwis^^ab-by <*6e cor-
r of the wood pointing to the place.
I then 1>eganMte enter into a little conversation with:'W
two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of *\
father what he thought of the escape of the savage* infJ
canoe, and whether we might expect a-return of them, ^|l!\t
, power too great for us to resist. His first opinion Was,'&,
the savages in. the boat never could live out the* storm w^
blew that m\g^t; they/went, off, but must, of necessity/^
drowned* or? driven .South to (those- other snores, where t^/,
were as sure, to be devoured as they were to be drowned,1
they wa,re, cast away :[ but*- as to what they would do> ifthw
came safe on shore, he said he knew not? but it wis his W
nion, that they, were so dreadfully frightened with the mari^
of their being attacked, the^noisei and the fire, that he belief
they would tell the people they were all killed by thunder 3n£
lightning, not, by thehand of man; and that the two -wtfr1
appeared, viz. Friday and I, were two heavenly spirits, or fiJW
ries, comedown to< destroy-them,'and not men with weapo^5.
This, he said, he knew -> because he heard them all cry out s°>
in their language,'One to another; for it was impossible #*
them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak tb^*J!
der, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as ***
done now * and this old savage.was in the right; for, as I*111'
derstood since, by other hands, the savages never attempt^
to go over to the isjand afterwards, they were so terrified wiuj
the accounts given by those four men (for, it seems, they &*
escape the sea,) that they believed whoever went to that en'
chanted island would be destroyed with fire from the g^?'
This, however, I knew not j and therefore was under corrt1*
nual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon &1
fiard, with all my army: for, as there were now four of u5'
would have ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in &&_
open, field, at any time. i <•-'
In a little time, however, no morejcanoes appearing,'*^
jfear of their coming wore off 5 and I began to take mjfot^
thoughts of a voyage to Uie main into consideration; befa£
likewise assured, by Friday's father, that I might* depend up^n
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would $0'
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serioflS
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that th^
were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese,' wtt°>
having been cast away, and made their escape to that side, Itfeo
there at peace, indeed* with the savages, but were very sore P^
to it for necessaries, and indeed; for life. I asked him all the
particulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish sh»P>
toll?* from ^ie m° de ia Plata t0 me Havanna, being directed
•and Ve? ^ir ^oa^nS ^iere> which was chiefly hides and silver,
'<* to bring back what European goods they could meet with
**& j that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
^ev-took.out of another wreck; that'five of their own men
^ &£ drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these
JCaped, through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived,
jj^ost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to
*vfc been devoured every moment. He told me they had
j*^ arms, with them, but they were perfectly useless, for that
^ley had .neither powder or ball, the washing of the sea having
 P°Ued all their powder, but a little, which they used, at their
rst landings to provide themselves some food.
I asked him'what he thought would become of them there,
*^d if they,had formed no design of making any escape. He
Silid' they had* many consultations about it; but that having
father vessel, or tools to build one, or provisions of any
*1Jld, their councils always ended in tears and despair. I
^s^ed him how he thought they would receiver proposal
frorn me-, -which might tend towards an escape; and whether,
'II they were a11 here, it might not be done. I told him,
^'tk freedom,. I feared mostly their treachery and ill usage
°f meyif I put my life in their hands; for that gratitude
^asf no (inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men al-
^raFs square their dealings by the obligations they had re-
vived, so much as they did by the advantages they expected.
* told him it would be very hard that I should be the instru-
ment of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards
^ake me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
**& certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what ac-
cident soever brought him thither; and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall
*8to<the "merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the
'Inquisition. Tadded,that othecwise I was persuaded, if they
*^ere all here, we might, with so many hands, build a bark
krge enough to carry us all away, either to the Brasils, south-
ward, or to the islands, or Spanish »coast, northward 5 but that
:,rVin requital, they should, when I had put weapons into their
•hands, carry me by force among their own people, I might be
(^-tised for my kindness to them, and make my case worse
'^aa it was before. ,
,J{; He, answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuous-
ness, that their condition was so miserable, and that they were
^^semible of it, that, he believed, they -would abhor the
V0L. I. K
thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute tff
their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to tbert1
with the old man, and discourse with them about it, and 1^'
tarn again, and bring me their answer; that he would vciw&
conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should
be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and cap'
tain; and that they should swear upon the holy sacraments and
gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian country
as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely
in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a
contract from them, under their hands, for that purpose. Their
he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he would:
never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders;
and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood*
if there should happen the least breach of faith among his counf
trymen. He told me they were all of them very civil, lionet
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable
having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at tltf
mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of eveJ
returning to their own country; and that he was sure, if *
would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me»
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve theifl>
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over
to them to treat. But when we had got all things in readines*
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, 0*
the other hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied fr-
it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades
for at least half a year. The case was thus: He had bee**
with us now about a month, during which time I had let hitf*
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance °/
Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stocK
of corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it was more titfn
sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without go0(*
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to fourj bu*
much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were>
us he said, sixteen still alive, should come over; and, least 01
all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies Qi
America; so he told me he thought it would be more advis-
able to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some nl0f^
land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we should
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of com fi#
ait ^0nnt.fymen> when they should come; for want might, be
(}evmPtat*on to.them to disagree, or not to think themselves
« y ere^> otherwise than out of one ditficulty into another,
re- ^now>" sftys ke> " the children of Israel, though they
jjoiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet re-
ft ied even against God himself, that delivered them, when
^ Came to want bread in the wilderness."
I **>s caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
n °?u^ not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well
£. * was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging all
r °f Us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
it J** ^; arK* *n aD0Ut a months time, by the end of which
as Seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed
P as we sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and six-
r*n jars of rice; which was, in short, all the seed we had to
Pare: nor> indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for
llr own food, for the six months that we had to expect our
r?P 5 that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed
;%ie for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
!fc the ground in that country.
. Having now society enough, and our number being s'uffi-
j^ut to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, un-
c$s their number had been very great, we went freely all over
hfc island, whenever we found occasion; and as here we had
j^r escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossi-
J^j at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. For
nis purpose, I marked out several trees which I thought lit
°r our work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them
^wu; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted
J^y thought on that affair, to oversee and direct their work.
* showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed
^ large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the
!*e> till they had made about a dozen large planks of good
?*k» near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two
belies to four inches thick: what prodigious labour it took
**P> any one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of
J?ipe goats as much as I could 5 and, for this purpose, I made
Jriday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Fri-
day the next day, (for we took bar turns) and by this means
^e got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest;
*°r whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
«*em to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing the
§*»pes-'coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be
hung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at Aiicaflf>
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have rilte"
sixty or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a g'r<#
part of* our food, and was very good living too, I assure )'du>
for it is exceeding nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was n^
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, ho*"
ever, it was enough to answer our end; for from twenty- W°
bushels of barley we brought in and threshed out above tw°
hundred and twenty bushels,, and the like in proportion of ^e
i ice j which was store enough for our food to the next harvest-
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with toe*
or if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully
have victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, any part of America. When we hfl"
thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to
work to make more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets, in whi^1
we kept it j and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterou*
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make sorfle
things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no necf*
of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the guests *
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, t0
see what he could do with those he had left behind him there-
I gave him a strict charge not to bring any man with him whL>
would not first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the
person he should find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by him, and defend him against all such attempts, am'
wherever they went, would be entirely under and subjected to
his command j and that this should ^be put in writing, arn*
signed with their hands. How they were to have done rhb*»
when I knew they had neither pen or ink, was a question which
we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard an(*
the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of ^lC
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by
the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock
on it, and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use either
of them but upon urgent occasion.
This was a cheerful work, being the first, measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years
R0B1XS0X CRUSOE, 197
J some days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried
for^S> su^cient f°r themselves for many days, and sufficient
th» ^le Spaniards for about eight days time; and wishing
ak"m a S00^ voyage, I saw thern go 5 agreeing with them
j out a signal they should hang out at their return, by which
'"ould know them again, when they came back, at a dis-
ra.nce, before they came on shore. They went away with a
.air gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my account
11 the month of October j but as for an exact reckoning of
a>'s* after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again j
<Jr had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to
8ure I was right 5 though, as it proved, when I afterwards
arruned my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of
years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when
a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the
.'ke has not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep
n my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came run-
nillg in to me; and called aloud, " Master, master, they are
come, they are come !*' I jumped up, and, regardless of da:>
Ser, I went out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
fity little grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown
to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
Without my arms, which was not my custom to do: but I
was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently
savv a boat at about a league and a half distance, standing in
*°r the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I ob-
served presently, that they did not come from that side which
Jhe shore lay on, but from the southermost end of the island,
^pon this, I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for thesr-
^ere not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the next
^lace, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see what I
c^uld make of them j and having taken the ladder out, 1
limbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was
Apprehensive bf any tiling, and to take my view the plainer,
Without being discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the
nuU when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
9t about twQ leagues and a half distance from me, S. S. E
kut not above a league 3nd a half from the shore. By my
'°hservation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the
**>at appeared to be an English long-boat.
'I cannot express the confusion I was in 5 though the joy of
seeing a ^hipy and one that I had reason to believe was m<*rtw
nedby my own countrymen,* and consequently friends, ^Wl
such as I-cannot describe } but yet I had some secret doubts
hung about me, I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding'
me'keep upon my guard. In the first place> itoccuretj totm*
to consider what business an English ship Could have in that
pjrt of the world, since it was not the way to or from any part
of the world where the English had any traffic j and I kne\v
there had been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress»
and that if they were really English, it was most probable tltf1
they were here upon no good design; and that I had better
continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and mur-
derers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notice* of danger*
which sometimes are given him when he may think, there te
no possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices
are given us, I believe few that have made any observation*
of things can denyj that they are certain discoveries of an in*
visible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; awf
if die tendency of them seems to be to warn <tts -of:: danger
why should we not suppose they are from •some friendly agent
(whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate,* is not tbtf
question,) and that they are given for our good? ,>
The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice
of this reasoning; for had I not been made cauttotisi>by this
secret admonition, come it from whence it will, J'had been
undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, 3^
you will see presently. I had not kept myself long in. this pa^;
ture, but I saw* the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing?
however, -as they did not come quite far enough, ,they did not
see the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafted tat run
their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile.irottf
me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise they wouW
have landed just at my door, as I may say; and -would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered,
me of aJl I had. When they were on shore, I was; fullyts^
tUfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one oc
t \vg Ii thought were Dutch t but it did nob prove»so;jj there w&re
in all eleven men, whereof three of them I fouiuLwerefun*
armed, and, as f thought, bound; and when the first foiu>ot
five of them Were jumped on shore, they took those/three out
of the boat, as prisoners: one oib* the threeXxonldipercei^
using the most passionate gestures of entre^tyj/^fiTidicni.and
de^pajrt even to a kind of extravagance; the other \\vo, I could
receive, lifted up their Hands sometimes, and appeared con-
^Uied, indeed, but not; to such a degree as. the first. I was
Perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the.
Waning gf it should be. Friday called out to me in English,
'Xtyell as he could, "O master! yon see English mans, eat
pr»soner as well as savage mans-."—" Why, Friday/1 says I,
^doyou think they are going to eat them then?"—" Yes,"
JY$ Friday, « they will eat them."—" No, no," says I, " Fri-
py» I.am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you may
^ sure they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
!Vas, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expect^,
^g every moment when the three prisoners should be killed;
nty> once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great
cutlass, as die seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the
P°or men; and I expected to see him fall every momentj at
^hich all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins.
* Wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that
tyas gone with him, or that I had any way to have porrie,un-
discovered within shot of them, that I might have rescued the
three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them > bu*
it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed'thu
outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, 1
°bserved the fellows run scattering about the island; as if they
Ranted to, see the country. I observed that the three other men
"ad liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men m
despair. This put me in mind of the first time when I came
Qft shore, and began to look about me; how I gave myself
Qver for lost-, how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful
apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the tree all night,
for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I knew no*
thing, that night, of the supply I was to receive by the providen^
tial driving of the ship nearer the land by the 6torms and tide,
hy which I have since been so long nourished and supported.;
SQ these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of
deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to them,
and how effectually and really they were in a condition of safe-
*Yv at the same time that they thought themselves lost, and their
case desperate. ^ So little do.-we see before us in the world,
and so much reason have we ta depend cheerfully upon the*
great Maker of the worlds that he does not leave his creature?
to absolutely destitute,, but that; in the wprst circumstances,
they have always something to be thankful for, and sometinie,
3re nearer their deliverance than they imagine? nay, are eve
brought to their deliverance by the means by which they seen1
to be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these people cafli^
on shore; and partly while they rambled aboiTt to see wba
kind of a place they were irvthey had carelessly staid till th
tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably a^/'.
leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in wc
boat, who, as I found- afterwards, having drank a little- ^
much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking s
little sooner than the other, and rinding the boat too fc*st
aground for him to stir it, hollowed out for the rest, who wetf
straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the boat-'
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy saod>
almost like a quick-sand. In this condition, like true Reanie*1,
who are perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought*
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the country
again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling
them oft* from the boat, " Why, let her aloney Jack, can't yon-
she'll float next tide:" by which I was fully confirmed in the
main inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this \vhil°
J kept myself very close, not once daring to, stir out of m)T
castle, any farther than* to my place of observation, near the top
of the hill -, and very glad I was to think how well it was for-
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the- boa*
could float again, and by that time it would be dark, and***
might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to heal*
their discourse, if they had any. In the mean time, I fitted
myself up for a battle, as before, though with more caution*
knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had
at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excel*"
lent marksman with his gun, .to load himself with arms. *
took, myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three mus-
kets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formid-
able goats' skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned*
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, andia/gU11
jupon each shoulder.
It was my design,, as I .said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was* dark: but about two o'clock, being &$
heat of the day, I found that, in short, they were.alLgwe
straggling into the woods, and, as; I thought* .laid down*t0
sleep. .The three*, poor (distressed men, too anxious .forthetf
flaition to get any sleepj were, however, sat down under \lv>
a,jjter °^ a Sreat tree* at about a quarter of a miJe from me,
J a> as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of
,r condition; immediately I marched in the figure as above,
ft/j?an ^r^a)r at a £00c* distance behind me, as formidable
r his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-
e %ure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I
tK * anc* tnen> hefore any of them saw me, I called aloud to
en> in Spanish, <( What are.ye, gentlemen?" They started
P at the. noise, but were ten times more confounded when
^y saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They
3cfe no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just
sOirig t0 fly from nie? when I spoke to them in English:
"Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me 5 perhaps
^°u may have a friend near, when you did not expect it.11—
.He must be sent directly from Heaven then," said one o(
|^m very gravely to me, a'nd pulling off his hat at the same
*'fne to me.; f* for our condition is past the help of man."—
All heip is from Heaven, Sir," said I: "But can you put
a stranger in the way how to help you r for you seem .to be
In some great distress. I saw you when you landed 3 and
^hen you seemed to make application to the brutes that
^nje with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill
Xou."' ..
The poor man-, with tears running down his face, and trem-
""ng, looking like one astonished, returned, " Am I talking
*d God or man? Js it a real man or an angel ?"—" Be in no
fear about that, Sir," said *! j " if God had sent-an angel to
*slieve you, he would have- come better, clothed, and armed
after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears j I am a man, an Englishman,,and disposed to assist
you: you see I have one servant only j we have arms and
^munition j tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your
case ?'\—« Our case," said he, " Sir, is too long to tell you,
'^hile our murderers are so near us: but, in short> Sir, I was
c°tt*mander of that ship, my men have mutinied against mej
*hey have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me; and at
last have set me on shore in this desolate place, with these
tvyo men with me, one^ my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be unin-
habited,, and know not yet what to think of it"—" Where
are these brutes, your enemies?"- said I: "Do you know
where they are gone F.'—" There they lie,. Sir>" said he
K 2
poi'ntingftc* ^-thicket of trees; ^fiiiy-lieart tfehVolcs1 Tor ft^
the^fcaveseen iw; and heard you ipehk > iPth^y hnVe>>tiiey ^*
certahdfmurder us all."—f* ftavt* they any firearms ^'v^Iu1^
He answered they had only two pieces, one of which thbylel(j
iiv the boat. "Well then/' said I, « leave the rest tfrVrt^
I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thins; to kill them alH
but chilli we rather take them prisoners?" He told me-th#?
were two desperate villain's among them, that* it was scarce
safe to show any mercy to; but if they were secured, be1 be-
lieved all the rest would return to their duty. I asked hini
which they were? He told me he could not at that distant
distinguish them> but he would obey my orders in any* thtaj?
I would direct. "Well,** says I," let us retreat out of their
view or hearing, lest they awake, and We will r&solve htf'
ther." So they willingly went back with me, till'the wood*
covered us from them. f
"Look you, Sir," said I, " if I venture upon yourdelivef*
auce, are you willing to make two conditions with me r" H^
anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and tl^
ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed arid commanded
by me in every thing; and, if the ship was not recovered,<he
would lire and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him j and the two other men • said the sam**'
"Well," says I, " my conditions are but twot ist, That
while you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend1^
any authority here j and if I put arms in your hands, you'wiHi
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island;- and, in the mean*time/'*he
governed by my orders: 2d, That If the ship is, or may bef:re*
covered, you will carry me and my man to England passage
free.'* - ••.,-.*/ vr-^
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faiths*
man could devise, that he would comply with these mo^
reasonable demands; and, besides, would owe his life to;rflev
and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he livedo
"Well then/' said I, " here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball: tell me next what you think is proper toJb0
done." He showed all the' testimonies of his gr3titude<thaj
he was able, but offered to be wholly guided by me; 1 *°W
him I thought it was hard VeiUuring any diing; but theibes*
method I could, think of was to fire mpon> them iMi6nce/*j
they by, andr if any was not*killed at the first volley,^""
offered to submit, We might save them/aod^ so put it! Wholly
upon-God's providence tonlirect the shot^bHe-saiduveryfma^
tL?[iy» ^at he was loath to kill them,-if he could help it; but
aiitl 10Se- tW° were *lncor|,iglWe villains, and had been the
sh 1? °*a^ ^e mut*ny m tne sn'P> -ancl if they escaped, we
t^°Wcl be undone still; for they would go on board and bring
Sle ^"ole ships company, and destroy us all. <c Well then,"
gl. "necess,ty legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to
Ve our lives." However, seeing him still cautious ofshed-
nS hlood, I told him they should go themselves, and manage
* they found convenient.
anrf ^le mic^e °* ^1,s discourse we heard some of them awake,
jf ** soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him
"^Gr °^tnem were ^le neac*s of the mutiny? He said no.
. Well then," said I, "you may let them escape \ and Prfr-
uence seems to have awakened them on purpose to save
- ^selves. Now," says I, " if die rest escape you, it is your
ault," Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
J?* in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades
*hi hm^ with each a piece in his hand; the two men who
^ere with him going first, made some noise, at which one of
le seamen who was awake turned about, and seeing ihem
c^ing, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the
foment he cried out they fired; I mean the two men, the
°?Ptain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well
Jtmed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them was
*!Hed on tlur spot, and the other very much wounded; but
j?°t being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly
£? help to the other; but the captain stepping to him, told
*J»ni it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to
l0|give his villany 5 and with that word knocked him down
^ith the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more:
*»er<* were three more in the company, and one of them was
*fco slightly wounded. By-this time I was come; and when
J**ey saw their, danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
oeggec| for mercy."* The captain told them he would spare their
hves, if they would give him any assurance of their abhor-
j^tice of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear
*® be faithful "to?hun in recovering the ship, and afterwards in
^Jrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
ejave him all- the protestations of their sincerity that could be
paired, and' he was willing to believe^thefn, and spare their
hv^ which I was not against; only that!obliged him to keep
lI|em bound hand andibot while they were on the island.
'While this was; doing*. £ sent Friday with the captain's mate
*o the boat, withi orders to secure her, aod bring away the oars
and sails, which they did: and by and by three straggling meI^
that were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came bac*
upon hearing the guns fired, and seeing the captain* who be-
fore was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submit^
to be bound also; and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances: I began first, and told him my who>e
history, which he heard with an attention even to amazement?
and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my stor)'
is a, whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. B^
when he reflected from thence upon himself, and how.I seem"
ed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life, *tl^
tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a word mor£>
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and h'J
two men into my apartment, leading them in just where *
came out, viz. at the top of the house, where I refreshed then1
with such provisions as I had, and showed them all the Ctf1'
trivances I had made, during my long, long inhabiting that
place. -''
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amaz*
ing -T but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and
how perfectly J had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees*
which, having been now planted near twenty years/ and th$
trees growing much faster than in England, was become 3
little wood, and so thick, that it was impassable in any part'of
it, but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my resi-
dence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most princei
have, whither. I could retreat upon occasion, and I wouldsho^
him that too another time; but at present our business,was
to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed .with me ^
to thatj but told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measure
to take, for that there were still six and twenty hands on.boards
who having entered into a cursed conspiracy, .by which.they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened *hr
it now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that,df
they were subdued, they, would be brought to the-gallows}' &'
soon as they came to England* or to any of the English; coloJ
niesj and that> therefore,. there would be no attacking* then*
with so small a number as we were. .,:: .« ; r>^J
I mused for, some time upon what he had said, andfouncUt
was a yexy rational conclusion, and that, therefore,! something
was to be resolved, on speedily; as well to draw thermem ori
Unlr* 'nt° 80me snare ^or tneir s^rPrisc> as t0 prevent their
^ °S upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently
.furred to me, that in a little while the ship's crew, wonder-
8 what was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would
rtainiy come on shore in their other boat, to look for them;
"d that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too
fotig for m. ^ }ie auoweci to be rational. Upon this, I
°Jd him the first thing we had to do was to stave the boat,
"ich lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her off;
Ilc* taking every thing out of her, leave her so far useless as
I to be fit to swim: accordingly we went on board, took
)e ^ms which were left on board out of her, and whatever
Se We found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another
j rutt», a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
^P of .sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six
j*°unds); all which was very welcome to me, especially the
randy and sugar, of which I had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, (the oars,
lTlast, sail and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as
?k°ve,) we knocked a great hole, in her bottom, that if they
'"^ come strong enough to master us, yet they could not car-
r-v off tue boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that
^e could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that
** they went away without the boat, I did not much question
to make her fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and
^11 upon our friends the Spaniards in my way; for I had them
still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
^in strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that
^ tide would not float her off at high water mark, and, be-
sic*es, ilacj broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
popped, and were set down musing what we should do, we
beard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her
ei*s*gn as a signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat
s^rred; and they fired several times, making other signals for
Jta hoat. At last, when all their signals and firing proved
Jfuitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them,
bX the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row to-
Wards the shore j and we found, as they approached, that there
We**e no less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms
with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had
a"ftU.Yiew of them as they came, and a plain sight even of
^ir faces,;* because the tide having set them a little to the
east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore* to corn^j
the same place where the other iiad landed, and where tl^ecboit
lay; by this means, I say, we had a full view of them, ^fl
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the 'ri1?1
in the boat, of whom, he said, there were three very hones ,
fellows; who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by *J:
rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as for n1
"boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among th"#™
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship >
crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their new eti^K
prize; and terribly apprehensive he was that they would ™
too powerful for us. I smiled at him, and told him that ifl#\
in our circumstances were past the operation of fear; that ^ee"
ing almost every condition that could be was better than tl>3
which we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a(l^
liverarice. I asked him what he thought of the circumstaltf^
of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth vent»ir*
ing for? *' And where, Sir," said I, "is your belief oFit1)
being preserved here on purpose to save your life, which el^
vated you a little while ago? For my part," said I, tc the^
seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.'^
"What is that?" says he. "Why," said I, " ft*to, that'*5:
you say there are thred or four honest fellows among then1:
which should be spared, had they been all of the wicked p^1
of the crew I should have thought God's providence 'I#f
singled them out to delhtr them into your hands; fotfd^
pend upon it, every man that comes ashore are our own/^',
shall dte or live as they behave to us." As I spoke this w'*jjt
a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greWj
encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our business. ^(, ,
We had, upon the first appearance of the7 boat's cbrh»^?
, from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners fa tfdr^
had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of tberh, of wh^,
the captain was less assured than ordinary > I sent with Frtd^'
and one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where tne)r
were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard *>r^V
covered, or of finding their way out of the woods if thfeycouI"
have1 delivered themselves: here they left thern btfiindi'k 
wUhout niercy: They promised faithfully to bear their c&n*|
fmemerit with pattencV> atid -were very thankful thatnhejPhffa'
f^i^^ visage ;is \o have provisions and light left them;
tliejr ^^ tliem caiK*les (suclvas we made ourselves) for
titiel COmfor^> ancl tney did pot know but tjiat he s(tood sen-
^|y°Ver them at. the entrance. ', '/ ,*'..
Hew •^°-t^er Pri^°ners had better usage; two of them were
fcn^ln*Qned* indeed* because the captain was not free to trust
tita ^ut tue otuer two were taken into my service, upon
ga l^Ptain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly en-
hon iQ *lve antl ^ie wiln us: so witu tneni am* tnc tDfree
^Quh^ *nen we were seven men we^ armea< 5 ^nd I made no
Uot; We should, be able to deal well enough with the ten that
t|)rea c°ming, considering that the captain had said there were
got f °l *°ur honest men an*oug them also. As soon as they
I : tathe place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat
t *"e beach, and came all on shore, hauling the boat up af-
fat/ lj w^ich I. was glad to see j for I was afraid they would
s| lprihave left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the
tooMk1 W^ SOme hands, hv her, t0 g^ard her, and so we should
tr-Wi able- to seize-the boat. Being on shore* the first thing
Qi did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to
'£ they were under a great surprise to find her stripped,..as
A?Ve» of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
t|Iterthey had mused a while upon this, they set up two or
J^Q; great shouts/hollowing with all their mighf, to try if
^y? could make their companions hear; but all ,was to no
Of 't°^: t*leu :t*ie^ -came au\ close m a r»»g> aud firc^l a volley
Mejr,small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes
jjWe ^he woods ring; but it was all one; those in tlie cave
W'Vere sure could not hear, and those in our keeping, .though
JteJjeard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
hey were so, astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they
.p}»Us. afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again, to
_^*!>$hip, and let tliem know that the men were all ipurdered,
j'W(f the, long.-bt>at staved; accordingly, they immediately
n^ci;Qd, their boat again, and got all of them on board.
^wie-captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at
JW> believing they would go on board the ship again, and set
?W* giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still
Jtte, the .ship, .which he was in hopes we should have recovered;
*^$,was quickly as much frightened the other way,.
3,They.had not been long put off with the boat, bitf we pcr-
^Ved,themtaU coming on shore again; but with,this new
5f?sureW U>eir conduct'; which it seems they consulted to-
»£&ei%upQnitvJ5?» .to leave three .men in the boat, and the rest
208 ^adventures bF
to go on shore, and go up into the country to look f°r ^
fellows. This was a great disappointment 'to us, :for n°w,^
were at a loss what to do; as our seizing those1 seven men
shore would be nd advantage to us, if we let the'boat escapf^
because they would then row away to the ship, and then
rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so'
recovering theIship would be lost. However, we had no r
medy but to wait and see what the issue of things might pf
sent. The seven men came on shore, and the three who-f
mained in the boat put her off to a good distance frorn^
shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it ^
impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those ^
came on shore kept close together, marching towards the ij
of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and wec^
sec them plainly, thqugh trey could hot perceive us. ™°
could have been very glad they would have come nearer to $'
so that we might have fired at them, 01 that they would h'aV
gone farther off, that we might have come abroad. But v'llC
they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could ^
a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards*tl.
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shotfte^
and hollowed till they were weary; and not caring, it seen3>
to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, tbw
sat down together under a tree, to consider of it. Had niev
thought fit to have gone to sleep there,' as the other part °
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they ^e*
too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleer'
though they could not tell what the danger was they had'1^
fear neither. '*
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this co^
sulfation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a voW
again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and thath*v
should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when 'tb^
pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield, ^
we should have them without bloodshed. I liked this pr°P°'
sal, provided it was done while we were near enough to co^1
up to them before they could load their pieces again; **u,
this event did not happen; and we lay still a long time, *e^
irresolute what course to take. At length Itold them &e^
would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and the^
if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we smight fi°d *
way to get between them and- the shore, and-.so. might* \v*
some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on'shor^
We waited a great while> though very impatient for their >&"
^ ,ng'j and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations,
it Se3aW t^ler|Uall start up, and march down towards the sea:
t}J^ms they had such dreadful apprehensions-upon them of
$hin ?er °f ^e place, that they resolved to go oh board the
^j.? ap»n, give their companions over for lost, and so .go on
ft their intended voyage with the ship.  ' ;
im • Soon as * perceived them-to go towards the shore, I
u .guted it to be, as it really was, that they had given over
lr* search, and were for going back again jtand the captain,
s<Km as I told fhim my thoughts, was. ready to-sink at the
tl I ler,sions of it: but I presently, thought of a stratagem
tjt .etch them back again, and which answered my.end to a
litti * ordered Friday and the captain'-s mate to go over the
,e creek-westward, towards the place where the savages
nie on shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they
k *}le to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I
j- **e them hollow out, as loud as they could, and wait till they
l^d the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
J16-seamen answer them, they should return it again; and
J^n keeping out of sight,- take a round, always answering
^n the others hollowed, to draw them as far into the island,
H among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again
0 ftie^ by> such ways as I directed them.
,!*hey were just going into the boat when Fridayiand the
^ate hollowed; and they presently heard them, and answer-
,/fe run along the shore westward, towards the voice they
*^ard, when they were presently stopped by the creek, where
M tvater being up, they could not get over, and called for the
vj&t to come up and set them over; as, indeed* ^l expected.
^en they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
.^ ng 'gone a good way into the creek, and* as it were, in a
^fbour within the land, they took one of the three men out
!?^her, to go along with them, and left only two in the boat>
'Jiving fastened her to the stump of a littlo tree on the shore.
%s<was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday
***d the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with
^ audcrossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the
'***> men before they were aware; one of them- lying on the
^ore^and die other being in the boat The fellow on shore
^'between sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the
'^ptainj.whO'Was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked
I'n^dqwn; and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or
«e^.was* a,|dead man. There needed very few arguments to
Persuade a single man to yield, when he saw fiv6 men upon
him,- aniMiis comrade knocked down j besides, this ^f
seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the ^j,!^
as the rest of the crew, ,and therefore was easily persua^d1*! j
only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with _^ |
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so ^
managed their business with the rest, tliat they drew the j
by hollowing and answering, from one hill to another/-*_ .
from one wood to another, till they not only heartily ju .
them, but left them where they were very sure they c0U ,* f
reach back to'the boat before it was darkj and, indeed* "^j
were heartily tired themselves also, by the time they <^n7
back to us. '.^
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in yV
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work ^.
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to mo[^\
fore they came back to their boat; and we could hear the t'ote&
most of them, long before they came quite up, calling to th°h.
behind to come along; and could also hear them answer*'*1
complain how lame and tired they were, and not able to cotiV
any faster; which was very welcome news to us. At lo^SL
they came up to the boat: but it is Impassible to express tltf'.'
confusion when tliey found the boat fast aground in the crW
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. Wo could ^f^
them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, tcll,n|
one another they were got into an enchanted island; ^
either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be tti^t
dered, or else there were devils and spirits in it, and ^iej[
should be all carried away and devoured. They* holio^e
again, and called their two comrades by their names a p?L
many times; but no answer. After some time, we c°J*'
see them, by the little light there was, run about* wriri§j*Vj
their hands like men in despair; and that sometimes *$$
would go and sit down in the boat, to rest themselves; $ ,,
come ashore again, and walk about again, and so the &nf.
tiling over again. My men would fain have had me g'^
them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but T^
willing-to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, *K
kill asJ few of them as I could; and especially I was nnwilMV,
to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the other* ^^
very we'll itrmed. I resolved to wait, to see if they1 did"^
separate,' and, therefore, to make sure of them, T drcAvW
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain td'ct^eV
tfpbti their hand* arid feet, as close to the: grptind. as wJ
^lt£ t^they might not be discovered, and get as near them
J<>flh y ?UW £0&slWv> ^fore foey offered to lire;
^hor^f ^ not ^)een *on& *n that posture, when the boatswain,
$h0wWas. the, principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now *
tgm n "imself the most dejected an£ dispirited of all the rest,
(w.^-diking.towards them, with two more of the crew: the
}ivj?,n W£w so eager at having this principal rogue so much
<w!s power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
*j0 ^ so nearas to be sure of him, for they only heard his
p Sue before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Swr5y> starting1 up on their feet, let fly at them. The boat-
tijwV1 Was killed upon the spot; tlie next man was,shot inta
ho\} ?* and: fell just by him, though he did not die till an
th« f;°r two a^tel; anc* lne tll*rc* mn *or iL ^ ^ie noise °^
Xv e* * immediately advanced with my whole array, which
Jio^ n°w eight-men, viz. myself, generalissimo j Friday, my
tL lenanUgeneral 5 the captain and his two men, and the
'*~e prisoners of war, whom we-had trusted with arms. We
^^Uponthem, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not
k^PUr number; and! made the man they had left in the
I a*> who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if
^Uld bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
j. ettt to terms; which-fell out just as we desired: for, indeed,
i ^s?easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
co'TCr^ W1^ung to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as ho
^j^taorte-of them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith r Tom
j; !|th. answered immediately, " Is that Robinson?" For
J^e*ns> he knew the voice. The other answered, "Aye,
'W for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your*arms and
^W> or you are all dead men this moment."—" Who must
jy%ield to? Where are they V says Smith again/ '< Here
jjSy ar<?.,'* §^ys he j "here's our captain, and rifty men with
ii?* *lave ^0en'Anting you these two hours: the boatswain
5, billed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner 5 and if
'Qb do not yield, you arc all lost."—" Will they give us
SSfkMhen," says Tom Smith, << and we will yield V—« I
^j|* go ask, if you promise to yield," says Robinson: so he
^Wd-tljc captain j and the captain himself then calls out,
: -°w> Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your
jMpsr immediately, sind submit, you shall have your lives, all
r»| Will Atkins/' .
T>vpon this Willr Atkins cried out « For God's sake, cap-
fslll\^giverne quarter; what have I done? They have all been
way, was not true neither; for, it.
r"!» give<xpe quarter; what
^badasl;^ which, by the
sterns,, this Will'Atkins was the first man that bid llolti of
the captain, when they first mutinied, and -used him barbtfi"'
ously, in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language
However, the. captain told him he must lay down his anus &
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which ke
meant me, for they all called me governor. In a word, they
all laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent
the man that had parlied with them, and two more, wb°
bound them all; and then my great army of fifty men, whid1'
particularly with those three, were in all but eight, came uf
and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kepf
myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seiz*11*
the ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parW.
with them, he expostulated with them uppn the villany °*
their practices with him, and at length upon the • further
wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must bri^
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to ^e
gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged ha^
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were none °*
his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that the/
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that [i
was inhabited, and that the governor was an •Englishman*
that he might hang them all there, if he pleased ; "but as &
had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send the*11
to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, excep1
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to adv^
to prepare for deaths for that he would be hanged in ti>e
morning.
Though this was nil but a fiction of his own, yet it had '&
desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to be,g the capt^
to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the fct
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to
England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverar>c^
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to brfe
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship*
so 1 retired in the dark from them, that they might notsee
what kind of a governor they had, and-called die.capt*"n'i0
me: when I called, as at a good distance, one of the me
was ordered to speak again, and say to thecaptain, " CaptainJ
the commander,calls for you;" and presently the captain &*
plied, " Tell his excellency I am just a-coming." This mor
Perfectly amused them, and they all believed that the com-
mander was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's
°niing to me, I told him my project for seizing the ship,
^hich he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in
e*ecution the next morning. But, in order to execute it with
*j}ote art, and to be secure of success, I tolH him we must
lvide the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
**d two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
J?.tne cave where the others lay. This was committed' to
1^ay> and the two men who came on shore with the captain.
. ^ey conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison: and it was,
JJ^eed, a dismal place, especially to men in their condition.
^ other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I
*v& given a full description j and as it was fenced in, and
, ey pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they
ere'upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to en-
er into a parley with them j in a word, to try them, and tell
j*16 whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go on
,°ard and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
^ him, of the condition they were brought to, and that
QQiigh the governor had given them quarter for their lives, as
? &e present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
Jjey would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if
• ey would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
e would have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
Ccepted by men in their condition j they fell down on their
n<~es to the captain, and promised, with the deepest impre-
at*ions, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop,
i^that they should owe their lives to him, and would go with
'^ all over the world j that they would own him as a father
/Jtiiem as long as they lived. "Well," says the captain, " I
Ust g0 ancj teu the governor what you say, and see what I can
? to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account
*^e temper he found them in, and that he verily believed they
t??k\be faithful. However, that we might be very secure, L
an*? k*m ke should go back again and choose out those five,
\v J6** tnem, that they might see he did not want men, that he
°uld take out those five to be his assistants, and that the go-
. rQor would keep die other two, and the three; that were sent
goners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of
th°Sfi **Ve* anc* ^at ^ tlley Provea< unfaithful in the execution,
fl .;.Ve. Postages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore.
1IS l°°ked severe, and convinced them that the governor was
in earnest! however, they hat*'noway leftdiem but td^tffj
it j and it was now die business of the prisoners, a? mucfr $
of the captain', to persuade die other five to db their duty.. _
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition i 
I'he captain, his mate and passenger: 2d, Theil the two J .
soners of the first gang, to whom, having their characters ujL
the captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them y1..
arms: 3d, The other two that I had kept till now in W
bower piriioned, but, On the captain's motion, had no*'f,
leased: 4th, These five released at la.4t; so that they^f
twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave *
hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with the*
hands on board the ship: but as for me and my man Fri^r
I did hot think it was proper for us to stir, having s£v*'
men left behind; and it was employment enough to? *\
to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals. ^
to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast,Y fL
Friday went in twice a-day to them, to supply them V-
necessaries; and I made the other two carry 'provisions t°
certain distance, where Friday was to take it. .^
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was ^n f
the captain, who told them I was the person the govern;
had ordered to look after them; and that it was the govern0*.'.
pleasure they should not stir any where but by my directfrn'
that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle, and!'
laid in irons: so that as we never suffered them to see #
as a governor, I now appeared as another person, and'sp0*
of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, uP°
all occasions. ',,
The captain now hnd no difficulty before him, but to ?%
msh his two boats, stop die breach of one, and man therri. "*
made his passenger captain of one, with four of the men; ^ *
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the other; ?J
they contrived their business very well, for they came up't0 Sjj
ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of pt
ship, he 'made Robinson hail them, and tell them they j1^
brought off die men and the boat,' but that it was a long ^^
before they had found them, and the like, holding them & £
chat till they came to the ship's side 5 when the captain f11*
the mate entering first, with their arms, immediately &nock*L
down the? second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of'^^'
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men; the/ * *
cured all the rest that were upon the main tmd quarter-dec* >
M;^gan to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that
«^Vi when the other boat and their men entering
thP •?%e-chains, secured the fore-castle of the shjp, arid
tv?i scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making
iW, then'they found therp prisoners. When,, *th'is was
Mj-mid all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
tp?» with three men, to break into the round-house, where
<& *\ew rebel captain lay, who having taken the alarm, had
ff y» and with two men and a boy had got fire-arms in their
tjWi*! and when the mate, with a crow, split open the door,
$ *£w. captain and his men fired boldly among them, and
arS^d the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm,
^ funded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The
.^calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house,
tipped as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain
0m°-5h lhe nead» the bulIet enterlnS at hlS mouth> and came
$: again behind, one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word
$]*:'. upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
'feualjy, without any more lives lost.
.* &s soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
,!Ven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with
rH0 give, me notice of his success, which you may be sure
j4'Js very glaci tQ iiear> having sat watching upon the shore
tW Jill near two o'clock in the morning. Having thus heard
3?>gnal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day
2$$t fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something
j^Pr\sed with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up,
J4??rd' a man call me by the name of Governor, Governor,,
^presently! knew the captain's voice; when climbing up.
£ * t0P of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship,
sV^raced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer,
ffl he, « there's your ship, for she is all your's, and so are
}k a&d all that belong to her/' I cast my eyes to the ship,
M *ere she rode within little more than half a mile of the
$*& for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
tjp$rs of her, and the weather being fair, had brought Jier
Aft11 anchor just against the mouth of the little creek 5 and the
JfirVing up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
X3S0 .where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my
$<£„* I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise j
a?48^ my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
SfcfeHip easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
1$W^pleased to go. ,At first, for some time, I was not,
9&JP answer him one word 5 but as he had taken me in his
.'arms', I held-fast by, him, or I should have fallen to the grmliy
#!*He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a batt^(fy
*' of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which ^'^,
brought on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat 4° .(
upon'the ground; and though it brought me to.myself >'e jj
'was a*'godd while bef6re 1 cOultl speak a word to him. ' , t
this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only ,
under zrif surprise^ as I wds; and he said a thousand kind ^
tender things to me/to compose and bring me to myself:''
sucfi was thd' flood iof joy in my breast, that it put all n^
J" spirifs into confusion 3 at last it broke out into tears j and &
"little while after I recovered my speech, I then took my *£*
and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced toge1^
I. told him I looked upon him ate a man sent from Heave11'^
'* deliver rne, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a,dJ^0
of wonders J that snch things as these were the testimon'^5- j
had o'f a secret hand of Providence governing the world, f f(?
an evidence tliat the eye of an infinite Power could search f
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the nllS:,jn
able whenever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my nearL$
thankfulness to Heaven 5 and what heart could forbear to ™
him, who had not only in a miraculous manner provided f<# ^
in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but -#
whom every deliverance must always be acknowledge^
proceed? .. - --Jj
When we had talked a while, the captain told inehej*.
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afTo*^
and such as the wretches that had been so long his ti&s ije
/had not plundered him of. Upon this ho called aloud to1-f
boat, and bade his men bring the tilings ashore that weff-
the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as- if J had-P~ j
one that was not to be carried away with them, but as ^: ^^t
been to dwell upon the island still. First, he had' hr°"» e
me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, slX' nyo
bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each)/ ^
pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces. ^' $
ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peaS'^0*
about a hundred weight of biscuit: he also brought rnpj;# ^
of sugar,, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, ..and two.b0.^
of lime juice, and abundance of other things. But, ^f ^
these, and what was a thousand times more usefulvtatf^'^
brought me six^ new clean shirts, six very good neckcl^ £
two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a-hat; and on^W.^
"stockings, with a very good $uit of'clothes'of»his\own, v
t j^j^en worn but very little 5 in a word, he clothed me fron*
, . W to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
i,? one may imagine, to one in my circumstances -, but never
; .^anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, auk-
; var^i and Uneasy, as it was to me to wear such 'clothes at
^v After these ceremonies were past, and after air his good
^?gs\ were ^brought into my little apartment, we began to
j0l*sult what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for
Was worth considering whether we might venture rto take
?etn away whh us or no, especially two of them, whom he
Jk.w to be incorrigible and refractory to the,last degree $ and
,?*: captain said he knew they were such rogues,, that there
^as no obliging them) and if he did carry 'them awa^, it
*?u$t be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to jus-
JCe at the first English colony he could come at j and I found
j??t the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon
J*1}8 I told him, that if he, desired it, I would undertake to
. Jj^g the two men he spoke of to make it their own request
^t he should leave them upon the island. "I should be
jj*?1^ glad of that," says the captain, "with all my heart."
j^'*' Well," says I, /' I will, send for them up, and talk with
;{^tn for you." So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for
„ ?ey were now discharged, their comrades having performed
, |Vir promise j I say, I caused them to go to the cav«, and
^ mg up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower,
/.^ keep them there tilll came. After some time, I came
^ither dressed in my new habit; and now I was called go-;
pernor again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused
x^ men to be brought before me; and I told them I had got
r^;full account oftheit villanous behaviour to the captain, and
/^pw' they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to
V^mir farther robberies, but that Providence had ensnared
i,r^ni in their own ways, and^ that they were fallen into thepit
o^ich they had dug for others. I let them know thatby my
y^eciibn the ship 'had been seized; that she lay now in;the
^°ad* and they might see; by. and by, that their newlcapfairi
srjj?d< received the reward of Ins, villany,.and that they would see
^"flm hanging, at the.yard-arm; that as to them,. I wanted to
trj i 0w>what tliey had to say why I should not execute them as
V .]?,r&les, taken in the fact, as by tny commission they could not
o^ht but I had authority so td do. - .
l^One of/them ariswefed in the name of the rest, that they
^d nothing'to say but this, that when they were taken, the
/ *ol. 1. L
captain promised.them their lives, and they humbly imp!ot^
my mercy.' But I told them I knew not what wercjr.-
show them j for: as for myself, I had resolved to quit f-K
island with all my men, .and had taken passage with the &F
tain to go for England j. and as for the captain, he could j*r
carry tnem Yo England other than as prisoners*, in irons, t<*j?
tried for mutiny* and running away with the shipjr the cpi£
^eq^ence of which, they must needs know, would b$ the g^r
k>ws,^ 39 tW X could not tell what was best for them,,mi!?,*?
-they had,a..mind to 'take their fate..in theislanc}:, if,they 4&
^ed Jthat, as ,1 had liberty, to.leave the island,. I had #>#?
inclination to .give them their lives, if they thought they co$r
shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for it^ and, &\ /
they, would much rather venture tq stay there than I?e cai?^
to England to be hanged: so I left it on that issue. , 
. However, the captain seemed to <make some difficulty of )s*
as if^.he durst not leave them there. ttJpon this I seenied//
^ittle angry with the captain, and told him that they were &)
prisoners., noting; and that seeing I had offered them so ij#v!.
favqur, I would be( as goqd as, my word $ andj that if hefd''
not thipt fit to consent to.it 1 would set them at liberty, #
found;;theta$ am} If he diil not like <it, he might take tltfj?
.-again/ ifh^could catch thim, Upon this they appeared y#$
thankful:,, and .^accordingly set them aUiberty,;aodbade th#?j
retire into the, woods* jto the place whence" they camp., and }
would leaver them some fire-arms, some ammunition,.^* v
•some directions how they should live,very well, if they thougWj
fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but }?)r.
the captain I would stay that night to prepare, my things, ^
desired him to go on board, in the mean time,, and keep $*
jright iii the ship, and send the boat on shore next day f?r
jne'j ordering him, at all events,, to cause,the new cap&l1?'
who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that'these-$0
jjiightsee.him. -,-'".,.'•' ^
. When the captain was gone, I sent for the men upt???
to :Trny apartment, and entered seriously 'iqto discourse; ,Vflp
them on their circumstances. vl told them, I .thought flpJ
ftad<made a r^ht choice; that if the captain.had carried.**^
WW> &$Yi would certainly be hanged. I showed diem f$P
new captain Hanging at the; yard-arm of the ship, and, to*,
fthem they/iad[nothing less, to. expect. s . ] , . . .r.--
When they had all declared their'willingness to stay, l-y0
told, them I wfould let them into the story of vayJMng&ity
and put them into the -way of makingJt; ea^y.to, themj ,aC"
:1( R6B1NS0H CRUSOE. £\$
^mSV/I gave them the whole history of the place, and of
^'.c^>ng to it; showed them my fortifications, the way I
.: ade my1>read, planted my corn, cured my grapes'y and, in
-^ord, all that was necessary to mate them easy. I told
'^? *he story also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to fee
I^Pcte^ f°r whom I left a letter, and made them promise-to
Jwthem in cQmmon with themselves. Here if; may.be no-
^fi that the captain had ink on board, who was greatly sur-
to^ mat * never hit upon a way of malting ink of charcoa!
J^d water, or of something else, as I had done things much
-^difficult - ,
. .* left them my fire-arms^ viz. five muskets, three fowling-
J^Ces, and three swords. I had above^a barrel'%ind alialf of
£0wder left; for after the first ye'ar&r two11 ;useibutfittle,
.^ wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I
^nagecTthe goats, arid directions to millc and fatten therri)
• H to make'both butter and cheese: in a word, I gave tRem
-v^ry:part of*my own story j1 arid' fold them' I 4hoi3d'prevail
: ^th the captain to leaver them two barrels of gunpowder
^0re, and some garden-seeds, which I/told them'/F Would
/Jave been very giad of: also I gave them the bag of pease
tytyck the captain, had brought me-to eat, and bade them be
»S^e to sow and increase them. ..'
'Having done all this, I left ^them the next daj, amhwent
t ^ board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail^ but" did
.i5V- weigh that .night. The next morning early, two of the
?>ty]p men came swimming to the ship's side; and makmgia
^^t lamentable complaint of the other three,-(begged to 'be
^ken into the ship, for God's sake> for they/should be mur-
7ei^ed, and begged the captain to take1 them on board, though
, ie banged them immediately. Upon this, the captain prete'nd-
£? to have no power without me 5 but after some difficulty,
&ftd ^fter their solemn promises of amendment, they-were
;^en on board, and were some time after soundly wbtpped
v/J^d pickled: after which they proved very honest and quiet
•^llow§.  ' '  '; ':\;-:-.;V; ".^
*< Same time after this, the boat was ordered oh shore; -the
|j*fe being up, with the things prbmised to the' men j to Which
'^ captain, at my intercession, cauied their chestsland clothes
j° be"addtd, which they took, aridfi*were very thankful for*
ri*Uo encouraged them, 'by telling thfem that if/it "la^trrtny
^wer'td'send fcriy'Wsel to ^ke^therh in, 1 twbtM nbt^teriet
(Ulem.'; ''" "* * Vy:ii;iv-
1'WhenTtook rleaverbf Jthis xslarid, I carrie^onibaAl/Vor
tfeliques, the great goat-skin cap I had made, ray umbrella
and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to take the money *
formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass fo\
silver, till u had been a little rubbed and handled -, as also th$
money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And tbuS
I left the island, the 19th of December, as I1 found by &f
ship's account, in the year 16S6, after I lmd been upon $
eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days*
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of ^e
month that f first made my escape in the long-boat fro°?
among the Moors of Sallee. In this-vessel, after a long
voyage, I arrived in England the nth of June, in the y&*
1687, having been thirty-live years absent. .
When I came to England, 1 was as perfect a stranger to 0"
thfe world as if I had never been known there. My bene?
factor and faithful steward, whom I had left my money'11
trust with, was alive, but had had great misfortunes in tb?
world; was become a widow the second time, and very lo*
jn the world. I made her very easy as to what she owed mpj
assuring; her I would give her no trouble; butj on the con-
trary, in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to nie>
1 relieved her as my.little stock would afford; which, at tlif4
time, would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness to me>
nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help her, &
shall be observed in its proper place. I went down afteV'
wards into Yorkshire -, but my father was dead, and my m^*
ther and all die family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I h$
teen long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision
made^dr me: so that, in a word, I found nothing td relieve
or assist irfe* and that the little money I had would not 3°
jmuch for me'as to settling in the world. „
I-met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did p$
expect 3 and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had
so {happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and
cargo, having given a very, handsome account to die owner*
of the: jmahner how I had saved the lives of the men; and
the ship, they invited me to meet them, and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all together made, me a very handsome
compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost 20Q\*
sterling. ';.
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances
^ttiy life, an&.how little way this woulcj go towards settling
^,-in, the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might
thA^>°^e ^ some information, of the state of my plantain in
J^Brasil^ and of what was become of my partner, Who, it
:atf> reason to suppose,, had some years past given me over ,fojj
*.<&d. t With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, wjhe;^ Jfc
Jfived in April following? my man Friday accornpanyingme
^7 honestly in all these rambli'ngs, and proving a most faithful
> rvant upon all occasions. When I came to Lisbon, I found
• Pt, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend
0-l? captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore
^Africa. He was. now grown-old, and had, left ofLgoing to
,% having put his son, who was far from a young man, into
\.ISship, and who still used the Brasil trade,^, The old man
v^\not know me', and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I soon
sought him to rny remembrance, and as soon brought myself
1° liist remembrance, when I toy him who I was* *< ,'•
^ After iome passionate expressions; of. the old acquaintance
'between us,, I inquired,: you may;be sure, after,my.plantation
J^fJ my partner. The old man fold me he had not been \h the
%«sils for about nine years; but that he could, assure, me,
%t when he came away my partner was living 5 but the
&u$tees, whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of
Pty.part, were both, dead: that, however, he believed I,would
£ave a, very good account of the improvement of the .planta-
in; for that upon the general belief of my being castaway
^,4 drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the pro-
j^ce qf my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal,twho
W appropriated it, in case I never came to^claim it, one-third
^the Icing, and.two-thirds to tlje^monastery\'of St. Augustine>
>!§)>eexpended, for, the benefit of the,poor,, and for the conver-
'$}P4t\ of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared,
$" any one far me, to claim the inheritance, it would be re-*
**P.redj only that the improvement, pr annual production,
£pjng;distrjbuted to charitable uses, could not be restored':, but
^assured ;nie that the steward. p£ the king's revenue from
JfVnds, and ?the proviea,or$, or steward of,the monastery, ha4
$kerr great care all along, thatthe incumbent,, that js to sayy
$?? partner, gave every year a/faitliful account of the produce*
^>vh\ch they £ad duly received my rnpjety, I asl^ed him.ijf
^eknew to. what height of ^improvement he Jiad brought the
PIa?Mtionj; and wfiether he, thought Tt might be worth, look-
Wg after $ or" whether, on my going thither,! I should; r^eet
$%2 ADVttNTtfKfe* 6P T
wlth-any obstruction to my possessing* my just right i#;t^j
moiety; He told me he could not tell exa&iyW whatdej^*.
the plantation wag improved, but this -he kriewv th^t rriy]p^'
Aer was grown exceeding rich upon (hie'enjoying this Pa^ t'
it', and that, to the best of his remembrance^he hid heard tW,
the king's third of my part, which was, ir/seems, granted &**f]
to >some other monastery or religious hoUse^ 'amounted tbabove'
two hundred moidores a-year i that as to' rhy being restore*?
to a quiet ^possession of it, there was no question to be mi^
of that; my partner being alive to witness my title, and mjT,
name being also enrolled irtHhe-register of the country: ^s°
he told me, that the survivor* of my-' two trustees were verf -
fair honest feofple, and very wealthy j and he believed I would
not ortlf have their assistance for putting me in possession, by
would rind a-Very considerable sum of money in their hand*
for iniy account,* being the produce of the farm while the'tf
fathers held the trusty &nd'before it was given up, as above;
which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years. f;
'I showed myself & little concerned and uneasy at this ac*}
count; and inquired^ of the old captain how it came to pas*
that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects, whenh^
krtewthat I had made my will, and had made him, the Por-
tuguese captain* my universal heir; &c. ^
--' -He told -me tliat was true 5 but that as there was no proof of
inybeing'dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain
account should come of my death) and, besides, he was not
willing" td intermeddle with a thing so remote v that it Was
lrue he had registered my will, and put in his claim j and'cow'
lie have given *flny account1 of my being dead or alive, he would
have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the injge*
nio (sOthey called the stigar-hbuse)A and have given his sop/
*ho Was-now at th^BrasilS^ orders' to do it/' << But,,r say*
the Old man/ r< I'have orie pie^ce of news td'telLyou, which/
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the rest j and that
is, believing you were lost, and all the world tielieving so also/
yottf partner-and trustees' did offer to account with me, in your
fcamei.for six or eight of the first years profits, which I received.
There5 being at'that'time great disbursements for increasing
the Wdtksy^building-an -ittgehib, and buying slaves, it;did riot
amount'to* near so much'as afterwards it produced r'hpwr
.ever/* sayVthe old man^ u I shall give1 you a true account^oi
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed of it;*_j
Altera few days farther conference with this ancient friend,
he brought me an, account of the first six-years income of my
Motion; signed by my partner and the merchant trustee*,,/
jn.J^^ways -delivered in goods, viz. tobacco mirolh and sugar
sfcfstp, brides rum, molasse^ &c. which iMbeconsequenee
^a. sugar-work; and h fbund> by this account/that every
rpthe-incomeconsiderably increased*; but, asabove,,the dbr
fsements being large, the; sum aC first was small:- howe.veri
^j*ld man let me.-see that hfe was debtor to roe 470 moidores^
^*?, besides 60 chests of sugar, and 15 duuble roltaof tobacco^
^«tch were lost in his ship j he having-been shipwrecked"
^^ home to Lisbon, about eleven years-after n)y leaving
f* J>lace. The good man then began to complain of his mis*
Z^nes/ and how he had been obliged to make use of my
??ney to recover his losses, and buy-Mm a share-in a new
rjH>* ,<r,Hawever, my old friend/' says he/?*" you kball not
^t'a supply in your necessity -,.-and as sooUiasmy son returns^
£>Mhallb<* fully -^satisfied/' Upon thiv he, pulls out an <*kL
£?uch, and gives me iGO Portugal.. iUipidore^ an gold-j * and
?**»i*g the writings of his ititfe io the^hip, which>his 30a was
**e;to,lte Bi?as}Ts in, of ^fefeh-ite was ^quarter rpartiowntifV
^jhiss^niariother,; heiiputs thermhotfi into my teads/jfcr.ae?
**%.Vtf>thfcrest- ^-»v.r: -, '< *- :..-. v-rr-' I-
*^J watitoo ,much moved with tliehwesty and .kindness of
- r^. poor man to be abb ,tp bear this-; and remembering whfct
.^ibad done for m%> how he had taken me up at «ea]*aiKtfhow
. S^erpt^sly^e had Wd >me on^ifocca^iortair^fparticidariy
WW, tspicefe a • friend, he; was now to me, I spuld hardly* refrain
•^eping at what he hadsaidftp me-j therefore J .ask^ him *i£
*^.cyr^nmst^n^es 3adrnUted« hiniitp §par^7.spImuch money at•.
( w^t jtiroe4 ,and,i£ <U wpuld ;)pt;! straiten fhirn ?^-He, told mei hfei
?°ttld.&ot say;but> it might straUen;himi^l*tle;;rbut,-howeveri
^Wa» r^ytrnpueyji and J might; want it more^jthaAhe /- .;
3^Evtery<tl4ng: thea good man said was ff nil pf afFeCtion,' and J
c°uld hardly refrain from tears while he spokei ipishott, Jttook
^ hundredr0f:thermpi,dore?Sj and ealledrfor a ,pen,andink to
&Vg -him a^eiptf/forf j therri>i 1 t$eiv 11 returned> him i.thcf: rest*.
*nd;told;himi/if everXhad possession of *he'plantatipu,< Lwouid
^urp the*other'to km ajsQ^as^indeed, Iaft^rwardg did) jfiand
Wt afr-to^hq;byijpfi»l^-pf-liiscjpartip.bisiSQD.^ ship,-Jf would*
. JPt;^takej.t; by.any^meausi- .feat^?t:if I wante$ybe tmoney^I
w^t camejtp.rep^iye what he gave m3 rea^Mo? expect, I. would
^'Wh$n,thi$Ava^past,)the.pld,rnan.askedjmeijjf he sbould^put
^Milp-A;rnp{bPd to maHft myj$mi>t&m plantation hHtold
him I thought to go over tovit myself. He said I might-*
50/if-I pleased; but that if I did not; there were Ways enough
to secure my right, and immediately to appropriate* the profits
to my use: and as there-were ships in the* river* of Lisbpn
just ready to go away to Brasil; he made me enter* myname
in a public register,- with his affidavit, affirming, \ipon oath/
that I was alive, and that I was the same person who tooJc^P
the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This being
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed* he
:directed meftdsend it, with a letter of his writing/ to a me£*
chant of his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed tif
staying with him till an account came of'the return.
"Never was any thing more honourable than the proceeding8
upon this procuration $ for in less than seven months I receive^
a large packet fronvthe survivors of my trustees, the merchants;
iifbr whose account11-went-to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account-current of the produce of njy
farm" or plantation, from the year when their" fathers 'hsA
balanced; with my old Portugal captain, being for six gears';
\the balance appeared to be 1174 moidores in my favour.' '^
:*~ Secondly, There-was the account of four years more, white
•they kept the effects in their'hands, before the government
Tclaimed the administration; as being the effects of a'person'not
t& be found/'which they called'civil deaths and the balance of
4his,vthe value of the plantation increasing, amounted to \g;446
-crusadoes, being about 3240 moidores. s " 'f
~ Thirdly/There was the prior of Augustine^ accolinf; 'Who
Jiiad received1 the"profits for above fourteen years phut'not
being, to; account for -what was disposed of by the'hospitai, very
honestly declared he had 872 moidores not distributed; whifch
Jie acknowledged1 to my account: as to the kitig's par't^th**
refundednothing. " 'V; : ^f- : w'ilp
<v There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me* very
affectionately upon-my being alive, giving me an account hotf
the state* was improved, and what it produced a^yeary' with^
particular of the number of squares or acres that it> contairielfc
how* planted; how many slaves there wereuporiity and making
two anditwenty crosses for blessings,'told me had'Said'sd mW
Avt Marias *to thank the blessed Virgin that I was aliyo'^in;
viting me-verypassionatelyrto come dver and take'possetfsloh
of my own; and, in the mean time, to grve-jiihi Wdi6jA^0
whom he should deliver my effects, \€L.&ldV&F&tite &$&?}
Concluding' with' a hearty'tender of his-fr5ehdship]*fand"thit',of
-hft family; and sent mef as a present, seven fine leopards skin-?,
^nich be had, it seems, received from Africa,, by some other
*hip that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, < had made a
better voyage than I. *Hesent me also five chests of excellent
?weatmeats> and a-hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not qu)te
s° large as moidores. By the same fleet, my two merchant
!rustees shipped me 1200 chests of sugar* 800 rolls of toWco>
and the rest of the whole account in gold. < - » 
* X might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job
^as better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
*he flutterings of my very heart, when I found all my wealth
about me5 'for as the Brasil ships come all in fleets, the same
s¥ps which brought my letters brought my goods: and the
^fects were safe in the river before the letters came to my
band. In^ word, I turned pale and grew sick $ and had not
the old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden
Wprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the
Jpot: .nay, after that,11 continued very ill, and was^ so some
hours, tillva physician being sent for, and something* of the
r;eal cause of my illness being known> he ordered me to be let
Wood>* after which I had relief,* a*id grew well: but I verily
believe; if 1 had not been eased by a-vent given in that manner
jto the spirits, I should have died. <:»
> , I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand
'pounds sterling in money* and had an estate^ as»I might'well call
*t> in the Brasils, of above a,thousand pounds a^year, as sure
*s an estate of lands in England; arid, in a word, X was in.a
condition'which-1 scarce knew how*to understand, or how to
impose myself for the enjoyment of it, »The first-thing I did*
*va§ to recompence'my original benefactor^ my good old -cap-
;Uin, who jhad been first*chdritable to me in my-distress, kind
i*9-*me< in my> beginning, and h6nesttO'me at the end. * X
showed him all'that was sent to me; I told him, that next to
the providence of Heaven, which disposed all things; it %as
#wing. to him j and-that it now'lay on roe to reward-him,
^hich I would do anhundredfold: so J*first'returned to hirn,
*hechundred moidores T had received^of him; 'then Henfcfcr
^tnotary,and caused, him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge for- the 4 70 moidores, \vhich 'he«- had<acknowledged h&
°^ved me, .in.the,fulle^-and* firmest mahnet^possible; yAfter
^hich Itcausediia procuration' to be drawn* ^empowermg -him?
rtp^bejmy receiver of the^ annual profit's of; fn^ plantations ahtt
appointing my parthentQ account with^hiroj and mitke'metre-
^urnssbyithe usual fleets;to*.him in^my^iame^land^a clause in
L2 *
the end, >e'mg a grant of 100 raoidores a*year to him during
bis.life,, out of the effects, and 50 moidores a-year to his sop
after him, for his life: and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next*
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put
into my,hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head
npw than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where
1 wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what
I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and
my business was how to secure it. I had never a cave now
to hide my money in, or a place where it might lie without
lock or key, till it grew mouldy, and tarnished before any body
Wpujd meddle with it: on the contrary, I knew not where to
put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the captain^
indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I. had. Iu
|he next place, my interest in the Brasils seemed to summon
me thither j but now I could not tell how to think of going
thither till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in sorno
safe hands behind me. At first I. thought of my old friend
the widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just to me >
but <£en she was in years, and but poor, and, for ought I
knew, might be in debt;. so that, in a word, I had no way
but to go back to England myself, arid take my effects with
m>
. \tk was some months, however, before I resolved upon this;
and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to
his, satisfaction* -who had been my former benefactor, so •!
began to think of my poor widow, whose husband had; been
rqy £r$t benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my
faithful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, J
got-a merchant in? Lisbon to write to his correspondentTin
Jx>ndoui not only to pay ffbill, but to go find U?r out, and
carry her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to talk
with her, and, comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she
should, if I lived, have a further supply: at the same time.*
sen* my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each*
they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circuit
stances j one having been married and left a widow \ 9xA
the other having a husband not so kind to her. as he should, b*-*
But among all my relations or acquaintances, leouULnot -f&
pifeh upon one to, whom I durst commit Jthe gross' of WV
Itoek, that I might go away to *he Bra&ila, and; leave thing1
lafe behind me -, and this greatly perplexed me. •' ,r. v^
^J hadjonce^ mind tovtove, gone to. the Braails, ami &&*
8^tfeH myself there; for I was, as it were, naturalized to the
Pkce; but I had some little scruple irk my mind about religion,
yitch insensibly drew roe back. However, it'was not reli*
|K>n that kept me from going there for the present -, and a*
f had-made no scruple of being operrly-bf the religion of the
Country alf the while I was among them, so neither did I
y*t\ only that, now and then, having of late thought moTe
w h lhan formerly, when 1 began tb think of living and dying
^ft\ohg them, I began to regret my having professed myself
* papist, and thought it mightnot be the best religion* to die
with. . .r .? ,../• &..i  I
Buty as I have said, this was not the main thing that 4tept
*ne from going to the Brasifs, but that' reaHy 1 did not know
"Mth whom to leave my effects Behind tne^ so I resolved, at
*ast, to go to England with 1t; where, if I arrived, I concluded
I should make some acquaintance, or find some relations that
"would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I prepared to go to
England4 with ail my wealth.
In1 order to prepare things for my going libme, I first, th&
fcrasrl fleet "being jtwt going away, resolved to give dnsweri
Suitable ta the just and faithml account of things I had from
thence ;* and, -first, to the prior of St. Augustine I wrote a let*
ter fbil of thanks for their jtist dealings, and the offer of the
372 moidores which were undisposed of, which I desired
"might be given, 500 to the monastery > and $72 to the poor,
fcs the prior should direct; desiring the good padres jyrayets
tor me, .and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks tb my
two trustees, with all the acknowledgement that so much jus-
tice and honesty called for $ as for sending them any present,
1hey were far -above having any occasion for h\ Lastly; I
wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in therm-
^proving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock
ff the works; giving him instructions for bis future govern-
Orient vf irty paftj according to the powers I'had left wim 1*1)-
*>ld ^patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever beeatrte
l$tok to me, till he should hear from me more particularly 3
^sitting-him that it was ray intention not only to come tttferm,
but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To
thi^; I ^dded a Hrery handsome present of some Italian stlkr for
fcb wife^hd two daughters, for such ihe tstptain's son informed
*fce he hod; w?th two pieces of fine English broad cloth, die
test!could get in Lisbon, five pieces ef black baize, 'and some
Flanders lafie of a good value. » .:, .
Having thus-settled my aflairs, soH- tny *at jp/and trirned
all my effects iato good bills of exchange, my next difficulty
was, which way,to go to England: I had been, accustomed
enough to the sea, and yet I Jiad a strange aversion to go &
England by sea at that time -, and though I could give no rea-
son for it, yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that
though I had once shipped my baggage, in order, to go, yet I
altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.>v
. It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, anfi <thi*
might be some of the,reasons; but let no man slight the
strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment/,
two of the ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean*
more particularly singled out than any other, having put my
things on board, and. in the other to have agreed with the cap-
tain 5 I say, two of. these ships miscarried, viz. one was taken
by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Starts
near Torbay, and all the people drowned, except thrjje j so
that in either of those vessels I had been made miserable., ,
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts,, my old.', pilot*
to whom, I communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly
not to go by sea, but either to go by land, to the Groyne, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, frpn} whence it; was
but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover j or to go up to Madrid, and so aU: the way by
land through France. ;In a word, I was so prepossessed against
my going by sea at all, except fronvrCalaisto Dover, that,! re/
solved to travel all the way by land $ which, as I was not iff
^3$te, and did not value the charge, was by much the pleasant-
er way; and to make it more so, my old captain brought an
JEnglish gentleman, the son. of a merchant in Lisbon^ who
was swilling to travel with me j after which we picked up
two more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that, in all there
were six of us, and five servants > the (two merchants and the
two Portuguese consenting themselves with One servant. be»
iweentwo, to? save the, charge $ and as fox me, I > got 33
English sailor to travel with me as aberrant, besides my mao
BjidaV) who was top much, a stranger tp be capable, Qfrsuppiy*
£njr the. place of,a servant on *the road. s, . „,* <>. i. 4
,.Jn.jthis manner, I set out from Lisbon; and our ^company
being very well mounted and, armed, we made-a little, troop?
Whereof they did,me the ?hpnpu£,tocall me, ipaptahv ,a$ well
because I was.the plde^Lman, as:because Ifiad^twfifSeryantl^
and, indeed, was the original of the whojejpu^nejf.t -- *,j ,v/
A* d-ibaye trouble^ ygu >wlth none #$ p^y, $eaujournal^*) i
^tt trouble you now with none of my land journal; but
0!fle adventures that happened to us in this tedious and dirfi-
°tit journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to
**Pain, were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain,
and to see what was worth observing; but it being the latter
Part of the summer, we hastened away, and set out for Madrid
about the middle of October; but when we came to the edge
°f Navarre, we were alarmed> at several towns on the way,
^ith an account that so much snow was fallen on the French
•ide of the mountains, that several travellers were obliged to
£°me back to Pampelona, after having attempted, at an extreme
hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampelona itself, we found it so, indeed;
^d to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to
countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold
Xvas insufferable: nor, indeed, was it more painful than sur-
prising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immedi-
ately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen;
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumb-
ing and perishing of our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the rftoun*
tains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he
had never seen or felt before in his life. To mend the matter*
when we came to Pampelona, it continued snowing with so
touch violence, and so long, that the people said winter was
come before its time; and the roads, which were difficult
before, were now quite impassable; for, in a wordy the snow
fey in some places too thick for us to travel, and being not hard
froaen, as is the case in the northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive every
step. We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampelona;
when; seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its
being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe that
bad been known in the memory of man, I proposed that we
should all go away to Fonterabia, anduhere take shipping for
fiourdeaux, which was a very little voyage. But while I was
considering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who
having been stopped orr the* French side of the passes, as we
**ere on the Spanish, had found out a. guide, who, traversing
the country near the head of Ltoguedoc, hadbrought them over
*he mountains by such ways, that they were not much incom-
moded <wkk the snow? ibr where they met with snow ii>*ny
quantity, they said it wag frozen hard enough to bear theK*
and their horses. Wc .sent for this ,guide, who told us be
would undertake to carry u» the s#nie way with no hazard frotf*
the-snow, provided we were armed sptficjenUy to protect our-
selves from wild beasts j for* he saidj -upon these great, sno^8
it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at tltf
foot of-the mountains, being made ravenous for want of $b(XJ>
Xhe ground being covered wjth snow.. We told him.we were
well enough prepared; for suchw creatures as they wftre> A &
would; injure u& frqm a kind of two^egged wolves, wMfchr-^
were told, we,we,re in most danger from, especially on tb^
French side of the mountains, .fife satisfied us.thati theis ***
no danger of that "kind in the way that we were t<0 go.: so ^
readily agreed to follow him, as <Ud also iw#l## other gentle-
men, with their, servants., sorae fteuQh, sofae: Spanish* who, **
J said, ;}ia,d attempted to go, and were obliged to come ba**
again. . v: ,;. ,-, 'i
Accordingly, we set oirt from EampeJofi^^Uh our guide, 0°
the \&tk of ^oyepjbjer/; aod^, indeed^ I was surprised, wheo»
instead of going forward, lie ^me directly back wjtb;U$;on the
same ro$d that ws.jc&me from Madrid,, nbouj twenty ,mUes*
when having passed twowers, and come into the piaiacouflr
try>^we.4bund"ouj?s^ves in a warm climate again,; .where the
countjry wag.ptawanVaadnpRn«swttofaeseen.; but,onatuddefl
turning to km*teft, jtie ap^roaohed-the mountains another. way<>*
and though it h true tie J>iHs and precipices looked dreadfuh
yet he made so many, tours, such meander^ #nd Jed us by web
winding wy«, that we insensibly passed the, height* of ibe
mountains,.without;being much incumbered, with, the.snows
and* ail on a sudden, he? showed' us the p)ea«uat, f*uitfoi pn*-
vinpes of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and;flourishing
though, indeed,, at a great distance, and we had aome rougjb
way t^passstijl, , .,*'-,/ t
. Wie were a Utile uneasy, Juowetfer, when wc found it snowed
one whole, day and a night so fast, jiiat we could not itrsn&H
but he bid us be easy $ we aliouJd poop be: past it all: we *bu*J&
indeed, that we began *o despendevery day, and to come mot*
north than before 5 and eo depending <upon our guide, rwve ^cot
It wai^bout two, hours fbefofe night, when our guide being
something before, ifcj and not ,just in sight, out crished tbreo
n)o*$trow*wolve<<,fa^AVter them a bear, «o* of a {wtlow**?
adjoining,to a< thick woed.j *wo of the wolves raimde. at ih**
guide, »n4 had Ae-feeaibtibtifor*^J$. jaotold,havfc;bee»
ROBJWSOW CtLViOE. 201
poured before we could have helped him-5 one of them fas*
!?^ upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that
^fofenee, that he had not time, of presence o£ mind enough to
^w his pistol, but hollowed and cried Out to us most lustily.
^y man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and" see
^hat was the matter. *Vs soon as Friday came in sigtii»of the
^an, he hollowed out as loud as the other, kt O master! ^O
faster!" but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the'poor
*^ati, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in
behead.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday j
jjtt he having been used to such creatures iii his country; he
**&d no fear upon him, but went close up to him and shot him,
as above; whereas, any other of us would have;'five d at a
farther distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or
endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder-m*it than I 5
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, wherv, withJthfc Aowe
°fPriday's pist&l, we heard ort both sides$m rrtost dUma!
howling of wolves 5 and the noise, recloubled-by the*?cfio of
the mountain*', appeared to us as if there had been' a prodigious
^timber -of them; and perhaps there was not such a few as
that we had no cause of apprehensions: however, as Friday
had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the
horse left him immediately, and fled, without doing hirti any
damage, having happily fastened upon his head, where'the
^ses of the bridle had stuck in his.teeth. But the-nidii Was
tnost hurt j for the raging creature had bit him twice, once in
&e arm, ^nd the other time a little ahove hts knee; and
though he had made some defence, he was just as it were
Ambling down by the disorder of his horse, when JFriday came
fcp and shot the wolf.
It is easy to sfiippose that at the noise of Friday's pis1k>! we
QH mended 'our pace, and rode up as fast a# Nth'e way, which
was very difficult, would give us leave, tosfee what was the
Matter. As soon as we came -clear of fhe tree*, which blind-*
fed us before, we saw clearly what had been tlie case; and h*nar
^tiday had disengaged the poor &uide, though'We did i>ot pre-
sently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed." '
But never Was a right managed so hardily,, and th '<Mei a
RtirpriMng 'manner, as that which followed, between Friday
ft&d the bear, which ^ave us all, though at first we were sur-
mised and afraid for likn, the greatest diversion hnaginabiei
^the bear is $ heavy clumsy creature, audioes ubt g&llbp
as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two pa*"r
cular qualities, which generally are the rule oi* his actions **
first, as to men, who are not his proper prey, (he does o#
usually attempt them, except they first attack him, uuless he
be excessive hungry, which it is probable might now be the
case, the ground being covered with snow,; if you do uot roed*
tile with him, he will not meddle with you; but then y°^
must take care to be very civil to him, and give him the roao>
for .he* is a very nice gentleman j he will not go a step out Oj
his way for a prince j nay, if you are really afraid, your b6$*
way is to look another way, and keep going on; for sometime
if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, J^
takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss any thing 3*
him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big
as your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all othef
business aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satis-
faction in point of honour ;—this is his first quality: the ne**
is, if he be once affronted, he will never leave you, night nor
day, till he has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate;
till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came
up to him, he was helping him off from his horse, for th^
man was both hurt and frightened* when, on a sudden, we
espied the bear come out of the wood; and a vast monstrous
one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were;flH
a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saW
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's coun-
tenance: "Q, 0,0!" says Friday, three times, pointing t°
him; "O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand
with him j me makee you good laugh.";
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: ".You
fool," says I, " he will eat you up."—f* Eatee me up! eatee
me up!" says Friday, twice over again -, "me eatee,him up)
me makee you good, laugh 5 you all stay here, me show y°u
good laugh." So down he sits, and gets off his boots in $
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps, (as we call the flat shoes
they wear, andwhich he had in his pocket,) gives my pthex,
senjapt his horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift lik*
the wind.
.. T^e bear was. walking softly on, and,offered to meddle
with nobody, till Fr'^ay coming pretty near, caHs to bim, as if
the bear could understand him, " Hark ye, hark*, ye," says
Friday, " me speakee with you." We followed at a distance \
for now being come down.qn the Gascony ;si$e of tfee mpu#-
kfos, we were entered a vast great forest, where the country
*as plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it seat-
ed here and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels
of the bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
5f°&e and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, hat
y him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall;
bu* it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear,
tl>at he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show
j*s some laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear ielt the
bW, and saw him, he turns about, and comes after him,
takihg devilish long strides, and shuffling on at a strange rate,
s^ as would have put a horse to a middling gallop: away runs
JrMay, and takes his course as if he run towards us for help;
56 we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
^y man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the
W back upon us, when he was going about his own business
Mother way: and especially I was angry that he had turned
the bear upon us, and then run away; and I called out, " You
% is this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your
horse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard me, and
ctfed out, " No shoot, no shoot j stand still, and you get much
laugh:" and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's
otie, he turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a
great oak tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to follow;
and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his
gun down upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the
Attorn of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and we*
followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at the
gkn, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was
amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not
for my life see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear
get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him. ^
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
*maH end of a large branch, and the bear got about half-way to
Whi. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb
<* the tree was weaker,—« Ha!" says he to us, " now you
s^me teachee the bear dance:" so he falls a jumping and
taking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
stHl; and began to look behind him, to see how he should get
feack; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had
"Ot done with him by a great deal; when seeing him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
cduld speak English, « What, you come no farther? 'pray you
come farther;" &o he left jumping and shaking the tree; an**
the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a IittlJ
farther; then he fell a jumping again, and, the. .bear stoppf*
again. We thought now was a good time to knock hin) u|
the head, and calldd to Friday to stand still, and we would sh°°
the bear: but he cried out earnestly, <s O pray! O pray n°
shoot, me shoot by and then $" he would have said by and by*
However» to shorten die story, Friday danced so much, &"
the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough, but
still could not imagine what die fellow would do: for first ^e
thought he depended upon shaking the bear oifj and wefc^n^
the bear was too.cunning for that too; for he would not jSP
out far enough to be thrown down, b,ut clings fast with b**
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine wltf*
would be the end of it, and what die jest would be at last-
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the be#
cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuade^
to come any farther,(f Well, well," says Friday, "you no co&6
farther, me go$ you no come to me, me come to you;" 9xA
upon this, he goes out to the smaller end of the bough, wbetf
it would bend with his weight, and gently lets himself dotf?
by it, sliding down the bough, till he came near enough- W
jump down on his feet* and away he runs to'his gun, takes #
up, and stands UilL "Well," said I to him, " Friday, what
will you do now? Why don't you shoot him ?"—" No.shcot,'*
says Friday, " no yet; me shoot now, me no kill j me stay*
*<give you one more laugh:" and, indeed, so he did, as you will
see presently; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he
somes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
cautiously, looking behind him every step, and comings backf
ward till he got into the body of the tree,- then wi(h the
same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree* grasping
it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely*
At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind-foot 6n
the ground, Friday pepped up close to him, clapped thP
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh.; and when \$
saw we were pleased, by our. looks, he falls a laughing himself
very loud. "So we kill bear in my country/* says, Friday*
"So you kill them?** says I: " *why, you have no gqns/Vr
4< No," says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long, arrow/'
.This was a good diversion to us j but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt,; ao^,what to da-VfP
hardly knew: ta$ howling of wolves xuri'jmijph, i# my head i
'.>*,V,---- .
Vol* 1» S34.
•**«» indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
^toca, of which I have said something already, I never heard
n? thing that filled me with so much, honor. f
•These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or
^ej as Friday woulfl have had us, we shoulp certainly have,
**en the skin of tliis monstrous creature off, whfch wa$
°.rth saving; but we had near three leagues to go, and our
£u*de hastened us j so we left him, and went! .forward on our
Journey.
The ground was sttll covered with snqw, though not so deep
*&d dangerous as on the mountains j and the ravenous crea-
ks, as we heard afterwards, were come down into the foresf
?I1(1 plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and
"a<* done a great deal of mischief in the viUa^es, where they
^prised the country people, killed a great .many of their
s«eep and horses, and some people too. We had one danger*-
°Us place to pass, which our guide told us, if tjjere were'more
Solves in the country we should rind them there j and this
^as a small plain,^ surrounded with woods on-every^e, <ani
a long narrow defile, or lane, which we werer*to pass to gei\
trough the wood, and then we should come to the village
where-we were to lodge. It was within half an hour of sun-
set when we entered the first wood, and a little after sun-set
^hen we came into the plain: we met with nothing in ib£
first wood, except that, in a little plain within the wood,
Much was not above two furlongs over, we saw H^q great
Solves cross the road, full speed, one after another* as,if they
°ad been in chace of some prey, arid .hajl it in .view j they
took no notice of us, ajad were gone put of, ajght in a few
foments. Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a
faint-hearted fellow* bid us keep iu. a ready posture, for he
helieved there were more wolves a coming. We kept our
^rnis ready, and our eyes about us j but we saw no more
wolves till we came through that wood, which was near half
a league,? an4 entered the plain* As soon as we came into
Jhe plain, we had occasion enough to look #bout us: fhe first
^ject we met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor
borse which the, wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
thernat work, we could not say eating of him* but picking of
"is bones rather; for they had eatei> up all the flesh before,
^e did not think fit to disturb them at their feast 3 neither
<W they take much notice of us. Friday would haye let, fly at
them, but I would not suffer jbioa byany means *,. for I fouafl
we were like to have more business upon ourhands than,, we
were aware of. We were not gone half* over the plain, w*^fl
we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left ,0
a frightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hun*
dred coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and mos
of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn jnp by exp6
rienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
them, but found, to draw ourselves in a close line was v&
only way; so we formed in a moment: but that we mig*1
not have too much interval, I ordered that only every oth^J
man should fire, and that the others who had not fired shoflW
stand ready to give them a second volley immediately, if the/
continued to advance upon us; and then that those who l*3"
fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees agai*1'
but stand ready every one with a pistol, for we were &"
armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man 5 so We
were, by this method, able to fire six vollies, half of us at a
time: however, at present we- had no necessity; for up°n
firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terri-
fied as well with the noise as with the fire j four of thefl*
being shot in the head, dropped; several others were wounded*
and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. '*'
found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where*
upon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest crefl*
tares were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all the
company to hollow as loud as we could; and I found the no-
tion not altogether mistaken j for upon our shout, they begat*
to retire, and turn about. I then ordered a second volley &'
be fired in their rear, which put them to the1 gallop, and away'
they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge ouf
pieces aga'm; and that we might lose.no time, we kept going1
hut we had but little more than loaded our fusees, and pttt
ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in th«
same wood; on our left, only that it was farther onward, the
same way we were to go. .• . *- .
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky-/
which made it worse on our side j but the noise increasing*
we could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling °\
those hellish creatures; and on a sudden, we perceived two
or three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, anc*
one in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them: however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our, horses go, which*
the way being very rough, was only a good hat& trot. In this
manner we came in view of the entrance of a wood, through
ktah tye were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but
e Were greatly surprised, when coming nearer the lane or
*r"s» we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at
fe entrance. On a sudden, at another opening of the wood,'
£ heard the noise of a gun, and looking that way, out rushed
|%se, wjth a saddle and a bridle on hrm, frying like die
, l|*d, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him, full speed;
j*deed, the horse had the heels of them, but as we supposed
/*at he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they
°uld get up with him at last; no question but they did.
., «ut here we had a most horrible sight j for riding up to
^ entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcases
a,iother horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous
Matures; and one of the men was no doubt the s»ime whom
*; heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired
»** J but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his
°uy was eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew
j!0* what course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
°r they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey j and I
Vei% believe there'were three hundred of them. It happened
Vftry much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
^°od, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber-
tffces, which had been cut down the summer before, and I
^Ppose lay there for carriage. I drew my little troop in
Uiong those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one
/*Ug tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree
?sfore us for a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or three
P^nts, inclosing our horses in the centre. We did so, and it
Jfa* well we did 5 for never was a more furious charge than
^e creatures made upon us in this place- They came on
J*Uh a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of tim-
^fj which, as I said, was our breast-work, as if they were
, nty rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
^as principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind
s* I ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
^ they took their aim so sure, that they killed several of
j^e wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessity t*
r**P a continual 'firing, for they came on like devils, those
^«md pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought
,ey stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone orF;
bu* it was but a moment, for others came forward again; sok
^ fired two vollies of our pistols; and I believe in these four
***mgs we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as mauy, yet they came on again. I was loath to spefl*
our last shot too hastily j so I called my servant, not my #**
Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greats
dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his o«*
while we were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other m*0'
and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him Jay a traitf 9*
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He d1(*
so j and had but just time to get away, whan the wolves caflJ*
up to it, and some were got upon it, when J, snapping #
uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on firo; those tb*'
were upon the timber were scortched with it \ and six or $&&
of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the to&
and fright of the iire j we dispatched these in an instant, 9W
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the fligM*
for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that th#
drew back a little $ upon which I ordered our last pistols to b*
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout; up011
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately up<#
near twenty lame oues, that we found struggling on the ground*
and fell a cutting them with our swords, which answered o&
expectation; for the crying and howling they made was betf#
understood by their fellows; so that they all fled.and left &>
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of thefl*»
and had it been day-light, we had killed many more. B*
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, &*
we had still near a league to go. "We heard the ravena*1*
creatures howl and yell in die woods as we went, several tiuwe*'
and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the sno^
dazzling our eyes, we were not certain: in about an ho»i*
more we came to the town where we were to lodge, which &6
found in a terrible fright, and all in arms j for, it seems, thd
night before, the wolves and some bears had broke into <bJJ
village, and put -them in such terror, that they were obftge<*
to keep guard night and day, but especially in the night, to pQ"
-serve their cattle, and, indeed,, their people.
The next morning our guide wa$ so ill, and his Jeg s.weH#*
|P much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he,-coal"
go no farther \ so we were obliged to take a new guide here*
and go to Thoulouse, where we found a warm climate/ a fruit-?
ful pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or any thing
like them: but when we told our story at Thoulouse, theX
told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great fa*
rest at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snowl^y
on the ground j but they inquired much what kind of a guidp
^,ejla<* got, who would venture to bring us that way in such
were season j and told us it was surprising we were not all
J^rcd. When we told them how we placed ourselves,
. ** &e horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and
?*<* us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed $ for
, ?^s the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furi-
?s^ seeing their prey; and that, at other times, they are really
raid of a gun; but being excessive hungry, aod raging on
tt* accou:nt> the eagerness to come at the horses had made
J^i senseless of danger -9 and that if we had not, by the con-;
J^d fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train bf powder,
J^tered them, it had been great odds but that we had been
^0fn to pieces: whereas, had we been content to have sat still
.^horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have
J*en the horses so much for their own, when men were on
,£e'r backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at last,
1 we had stood altogether, and left our hors.es, they would
ave been so eager to have devoured them, thatw6 might have
Co,rie off safe, especially'having our fire-arms in ouf hands,
^ being so many in number. For my part, I was never so
J^sible of danger in my. life; for seeing above three hundred *
^vils con>e roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and hav-
ing nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for
^3 and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those
j^untalns again; I think I would much rather go a'thousand
^agues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a stonn once
^Week. / -;
I have nothing uncommon to take notice' of in rrry passage
trough France, nothing but what other travellers nave given
*11 Account of, with much more advantage than11 can, I tra-
ced from Thoulouse to Paris, and without any considerable
^ay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of
anuary, after having a severe cold seas'on to travel in.
».* * Was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a
vJtjs time all my new discovered estate safe about me 5 the
"dls of exchange which I brought with me having been very
CUrrently paid. «
. ^y principal guide and privy counsellor was my good an-
ient widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her,
ll°ught no pains too much, or care too great, to employ for
11)0; and I trusted, her. so entirely with everything, that I was
Perfectly easy as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I
^as very happy from the beginning, and now to the end, iri
™s Unspotted integrity • of this good gentlewoman.
240 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brasils, »
1 could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old t»ieflt»
at Lisbon; who having offered it to the two merchants, tb«
survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brails, they ac-
cepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces f
eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for lt:
Having signed the instrument of sale, and sent it to my °*
friend, he remitted me bills of exchange for thirty-two thoU*
sand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate, reserving $e
payment of a hundred moidores a-year to himself during!*1'?
life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life, which *
had promised them.
Though I had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet I could n<)
keep the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong
Inclination I had to see my island. My true friend, the wido#>
earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me'
that, for almost seven years, she prevented my running abroad \
during which time J took my two nephews, the children °*
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having something
of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settle*
'ment of some addition to his estate, after my decease. ^e
other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after five ye$f
finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I Put
him into a good ship, and sent him to sea •. and this younjj
fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther &*
ventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for, fifst
of all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dis-
satisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one daugh*erj
but my wife dying, and my nephew coming home with go°d
success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad?
and his importunity prevailed, and engaged me to go in hlS
ship as a private trader to the East Indies: this was in the
year 1694,
But these things, with some very surprising incidents ijj
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I sh^
give a farther account of in another volume.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY J. WILSON?
Camden Town. St. Pancras.
AND SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OE
ftOBIISfSON CRUSOE,
. OF YORK, MARINER:
; AN ACCOUNT OF
**U TR^YEtS ROUN.D THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBK.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
VOLUME THE SECOND.
LONDON:
H,NTEB rOR F. C. & J. RIV4NGTON, No. 6*, ST. PAUL'S CHURCH
YARD, AND No. 3, WATERLOO PLACE, PALL MALL,
R°0R5>ELLERS TO THE SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN ^VOWLEOGE.
1820.
THE
PREFACE.
**:HE success the,former part of this Work has
**fct with in the world, has yet been no other
*W is acknowledged to be due to the surprising
v&riety of the subject, and to the agreeable man-
ner of the performance.
All the endeavours of envious people to re-
proach it with being a romance, to search it for
errors in geography, inconsistency in the relation,'
*ll<l contradictions in the fact, have proved abor-
tlve, and as impotent as malicious.
Thet just application of every incident, the re-
''gious ^nd u$efiU inferences drawn fropi every
Part, are so many testimonies to the good design
°f making it public, and must legitimate all tt^;<
P^vt that may be called invention or parable *£$
% &tory, ,.';.."'.
The Second Part, if the editor's opinion may
Pass, is (contrary to the usage of Second Parts)
every way as entertaining as the First; contains
as strange and surprising incidents, and as gt&l
a variety of them; nor is the application less se-
rious or suitable; and doubtless will, to tltf
sober, as well as the ingenious Reader, be every
way as profitable and diverting; and this makeS
the abridging this Work as scandalous, as it lS
knavish and ridiculous**.- Seeing, to shorten the
Book, that they may seem to reduce the value>
they strip it of all those reflections, as well &Y
gious as moral, which are not onjy the greatest
beauties of the Work, but are calculated for tl^
infinite advantage of the Reader.
By this, they leave the Work naked of ft5
brightest ornaments; and yet they would (at the
same time they pretend that the Author has sup'
plied his story out of his invention) take from *l
the improvement, which alone recommends thafc
invention to wise and good men.
The injury these men do to the Proprietors,'of
Works, is a practice all honest men abhor; an(*
they believe tl^ey may challenge them to sli^
the difference between that and robbing, on the
highway, or Waking opeii a house,
'if they cannot shew any difference in ths
crime, they will find it hard to shew wfry there
should be any difference in the punishment
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
T^HAT hotnely proverb used on so many occasions ia Eng-
"* land, viz. "That what is bred in the bone, will not go
°ut of the flesh/* was never more verified than in the story
°f my life. Any 6ne would think, that after thirty-five years
affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances, which few
^en, if any, ever went through before, and after near seven
years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all tilings,
grojvn old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have
had experience of every state of middle life, and to kndw
which was most adapted to make a man completely happy ;x I,
8ay, after all this, any one would have thought that the native
Propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of in my first
^tting out in the world to have, been so predominant in my
thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part be fully eva-
luated, -or at least condensed, and I might, at sixty-one years
°f age, have been a little inclined-to stay at home, and have
done venturing life and fortune any more,
• Nay, farther, the-common motive of foreign adventures was
taken away in me-; for I had no fortune to make^ I had nothing
to seek: if I had gained ten thousand pounds, i had been no
"richer; for I had already sufficient for me, apd for those I had
to leave it to: and that I had was visibly increasing> for hav-
Wlg no great family, I could not spend the income of what I
vol. ii. B
'had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living'
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like>
which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to; sa
that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy
what I had got, and see it increase, daily upon my hands. Yet
all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not enougj1
to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which
liung about me like a chronical distemper. In particular, the
desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the co*
lony I left there, run in my head continually. I dreamed 01
it all night, and my imagination run upon it all day; it was
uppermost in all my thoughts; and my fancy worked so stea-
dily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep; i*1
short, nothing could remove it out of my mind: it even broke
so violently into all my discourses, that it made my conversa-
tion tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse
run into it,even to impertinence; and 1 saw it in myself.
I have often heard persons of good judgement say, that all
the stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions,
is owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful ope-
ration of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing as
a- spiuitr appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like: that peor
pie's poring affectionately upon the past conversation of theh'
deceased friends, so.realizes it to them, that they are capable
of fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they
see them, talk to them, and are answered by them, when, h*
truth, there is. nothing but shadow and vapour in the; tbingv
turd they really know nothing of the matter;
For- my part> I know not to thia hour whether, there &&
^any> such- tilings a& real apparitions, spectres, Qr walking oi
people after they are dead; or whether there is any thmgf iff
the stories- they tell us of that kind, more than the product'of
vapours* sick minds, and wandering fancies: but this I know,
that my imagination worked up to such a height; and brought?
me<hit$>such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it*
that t actually supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old
castle, behind the trees; sawvmyold Spaniard; Friday's father,
and the reprobate sailors I left upon the islands nay, I fancied
P talked with them, and looked at them so steadily, though I
*\vas broad awake, as at>persons just before me; and this I clit»
till'1 often frightened myself with the images my fancy repre-
sented'tb me. One time, in my sleep, I had the villany of the
three pirate sailors so Hvelrly related tame by the first Spaniard
and' Friday V father,* that it .'was* surprising* they told me hov*
pcy barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, arid
tia~t" they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on ptir-
*^Se to distress and starve them; tilings that I had never heard
^** and that indeed were never all of diem true in fact; but it
^ so warm in my imaghiaiiorf, and so realized to me, that,
d the hour I saw them', I could not be persuaded but that it
^as, or would be true: also how I resented it, when the Spa-
*^d complained to me; and how I brought them to justice,
J?ed them before me, and ordered therri all three to be hanged.
/y$at tjiefe was really in this, shall be seen in its place: for
^Wfever t came to form such tilings in my dream, and what
s^cret converse of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, much
°* it true. 1 own, that this dream nad nothing in it literally
fj1.* specifically true; but the general part was so true, the base,
^fanous behaviors of these three hardened rogues was such,
*?$ had been so much worse than all' 1 can describe, that the
^arrrhad too much similitude of the fact; and as I would
a£terwaW[5 have punished them severely, so, if I had hanged
^em all, I had been much in the right, and even should have
kfcfcn jnsTified froth by the laws of* God and man. But to re-
turn to* my story: In this kind of temper I lived some years;
* had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agree*
aWe drversiorV, but what had Something or other of this in it;
SP that my wife, who saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told
*ne very seriously one night, that she believed there was some
Secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had
^terminetfme togd'thither again; and that she found nothing
^ititJerbd: my going, but my being engaged to a wife and child-
***** She told me, tnat it was true she could not think of
P^'Ung witli me; but as- she wad assured, that if she was dead
^ would be the first tiling I would do; so, as it seemed to her
"tet the tnibg was determined above, she would not be the1
?% obstruction; for, if I thought fit, and resolved to go——
*&re she found rrie" very intent upon her words, and that
*" looked very earnestly at her, so that it 8 little disordered
kfct, and she stopped1. I asked hdr, why she did not go on,
*Td say out what she was going to say? But I perceived that
**e> heart was too full, aftd some tears stood in her eyes. Speak
°^t, my dear, s'afd I j are you willing I should go? No, says
^e, very affectionately, I am far from willing ; but if you are
J^solved to go, says she, and rather than I would be the only:
"France, I Will go with you: for though I think it a most
Preposterous thing for one of your years, arid in your condi^.
tion> yo$9 if it must be> said she, agaift weeping^! won*t leaver
^yt?u > for, if it he of Heaven, you must do it j there is no re-
sisting it^ rind if Heaven miake it your duty to go, he win
also make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of tn&>
that I may not obstruct it.
This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little
out of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing *•
I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with my*
self sedately, what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed,
in so happy and easy a manner; -I say, what business had *
to rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fil
*only for youth and. poverty to run into?
With those thoughts I considered my new engagement;
that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great
with child of another; that I had all the world could give rne>
and had no need to seek hazards for gain j that I was declin-
ing in years, ^and ought to think rather of leaving what I had.
gained, than *of seeking to increase it; that as to what my
wife had said of its being an impulse from Heaven, and that
*it shoukj be my duty to go, I had no notion of that: so, after
*many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my
'imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people may*
always do in like cases, if they will: and, in a word, I con-
quered it; composed myself with such arguments as occurred
to my thoughts, and which my present condition furnished
nie-plentifully with-j and particularly, as the most effectual
iiiethod, I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to
^engage in some business that might effectually tie me up from
any more excursions of this kind, for I found that thing re-;
turn upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had .nothing to
«do, nor anything of moment immediately before me. To
this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
and resolved tp remove myself thither. I had a little conve-
nient house upon it; and the land about it, I found, was ca-
pable of great improvement; and it was many ways suited
*tp my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing?,
planting, and improving of land; and particularly, being aft
inland country, I was removed from conversing among sailors,
and things relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family,
bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows
and sheep, and, setting seriously to work, became, in one half-:
year, a mere country gentleman: my thoughts were entirely
4aken up in managing s&y servants, cultivating the ground,,
^closing-, planting, &c.; and I lived, as I thought, the- meat
agreeable life that nature was- capable of directing, or that a
man always bred to misfortunes was capable of retreating to,.
I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay, was If-
^ited by no articles; I could pull up or cut down as I pleasexl-:
***at I planted was for myself, and what I improved was-for
ty family; and having thus left off the thoughts of wander-
lrig, I had not the least discomfort in any part of life as t*>
^is world. Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle
**ate of life which my father so earnestly recommended to me,
ai*d lived a-kind of heavenly life, something like what is dcr
^rtbed by the poet; upon the subject of*a country-life—
« __ Free from vices, free from care, ^
u Age. has no pain,, and youth no snare,"
But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow-from unseen
Providence unhinged me at once; and not only made n breach
^pon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its cons-
equences, into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon re-
covered its hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent dis-
temper, came on with an irresistible force upon me, so that
Nothing could make any more impression upon me. Th»
Mow was the loss of my wife. It is not my business here to
write an elegy upon my wife, give a character of her particu-
lar virtues, and make my court to the sex by: the flattery of a
fiineral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of- all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprizes, the engine thatv by
her prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was ir»,
from the most extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered
in my head, as above, and did more to guide my rambling
genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's
counsel, or all my own reasoning powers could do. I was
happy Glistening to her tears, and in being moved by her en-
treaties; and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in- the
world by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round
fttej-lwas as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I
was in the Brasils, when I first went on shore there j and> as
^nch alone, except as to the assistance of servants, as I was
*n my island. I knew neither what to think nor what to-do.
I saw die world busy round me, one part labouring for bread,
another part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures,
squally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled from
them; for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of the*'
vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance $ and the
men of labour spent their strength in daily smugglings f°?
bread to maintain the vital strength they'laboured with' s0
living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, ai»
working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end °*
wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of daiv
bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, th<j
island; where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did
not want it; and bred no more goats, because I had no r#o#
use for them; where the money lay in the drawer till it gre^
mouldy, and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty
years.
AH these tilings, had I improved them as I ought to h&6
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would
have taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for*
full felicity -y and that there was something which certainly w*8
the reason and end of life, superior to all these things, and
which was either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on th&
tide the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone $ I was like a ship with'
out a.pilot, that could only run afore the wind: my thoughts
run all away again irito the old affair; my head was quite turned
with the whimsies of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant;
innocent amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and
my family, which before entirely possessed me, were nothing
io me, had no relish, and were like music to one that has no
ear, or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to
leave off house-keeping, let my farm, and return to London>
and in a few months after, I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was be-
fore; I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, no-
thing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom j*
may be said be is perfectly useless in God's creation/ and'it is
not one farthing's matter to the rest of his kind whether he be
dead or alive. This also was the thing which, of all circum-
stances of life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my
days used to an active life; and I would often say to myself*
"A state of idleness is the very dregs of life:" and indeed I
thought I was much more suitably employed when I was twenty*
six days making me a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew*
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea>
**ad had made him commander of a ship, was come home frbrn.
* *hort voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came
*° me, and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance
«ad been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the
**$t Indies and to China, as private traders.—" And now,
**ncie," say.* he,4i if you will go to sea with me, I will engage
*° land you upon your old habitation in the island 5 for we are
*<> touch at the Brash1*."
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and
°f the existence of an invisible World, than the concurrence v£
^cond causes with the ideas of tilings which we form in our
^mds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the
*orld.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper c-f wander*
lllg was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he
had in his thought to say, when that very morning^ before he
€ame to me, I liad, in a great deal of confusion of thought,
attd revolving every part of my circumstances in my mind,
Gome to this resolution, viz. that I would go to Lisbon, and
consult with my old sea-captain $ and so, if It was rational and
practicable, I-would goand see the island again, and see* what
was become of my people there. Phad pleased myself with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants
from hence, getting a patent for the possession, and I knew
not what; when, in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew,
as I have said, with his^roject of carrying me thither in his
way to the East Indies.
I paused a while at his words, and, looking steadily at him,
*f What devil," said I, '< sent you on this unlucky errand?"
My nephew stared, as if he had been frightened, at first; but
perceiving that I was not much displeased with the proposal,
he recovered himself. "I hope it may not be an unlucky pro*
Itosal, Sir," says hej " I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there* where you once reigned with more fe*-
hcity than most of your brother monarchs in the world."
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that
is to say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have
said so much, that I told him, in few words, if he agreed with
the merchants I would go with him i but I told him I would
"not promise to go any farther than my own island. "Why„
Sir," says he, "you don't want to be left there again, I hope?**
fr Why," said I, "can you not take me up again on your re-
turn?" He told me it would not be possible to do so; that the
merchants would never allow hM to come that way with a
laden ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of lwj
way, and might be three or four. if Besides, Sir 5 if I shouW
miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you would
be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy
-for it; which was, ta carry a framed sloop on board the ship/
which being taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship*
might, by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to
carry with us, be set up again in the island, and finished, fit
to go to sea,, in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of
my nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that no-
thing could oppose me: on the other hand, my wife being
<iead, I had nobody concerned themselves so much for me as
to persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient
good friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to
consider my years, my easy circumstances, and the needless
hazards of a long voyage,- and, above all, my young children.
But it was all to no purpose j—I had an irresistible desire to
the voyage 5 and I told her I thought there was something so
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for the
voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home: after which she ceased her ex-
postulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision
for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my
absence, and providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, 1 made my will, and settled the estate I
had in such a manner for my children, and placed in such
hands, that I was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have
justice done them, whatever might befall me 5 and for their
education, I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient
maintenance to herself for her care: all which she richly de-
served, for no mother could have taken more care in their
•education, or understood it better j and as she lived till I came
home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of Ja-
nuary 1694-5; and I, with my man Friday, went on board in
the Downs the 8 th: having, besides that sloop which I men*-
•iioned above, a very considerable cargo of all kinds of neces-
sary things for my colony; which, If I did not find in good con-
dition, I resolved to leave so.
- First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
-place there as inhabitants, or at least to set oh work there,
upon my account, while I stayed, and either to leave thera
w&tq, or carry them forward, as they would appear willing;
Particularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very
handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was
also a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making
wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and
a good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was proper to 
ttlake of earth, or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack
°f all trades. With these I carried a tailor; who had offered
himself to go a passenger to the East Indies with my nephew,
out afterwards consented'to stay on our new plantation; and
proved a most necessary, handy fellow, as could be desired, in
toany other businesses besides that of his trade: for, as I
observed formerly, tc Necessity arms us for all employments,"
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept
Recount of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of
linen, and some English thin stuffs, for cloathing the Spaniards
that I expected to find there; and enough of them, as, by my
Calculation, might comfortably supply them for seven years:
tf I remember right, the materials I carried for cloathing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they
could'want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred
pounds, including some beds> bedding, and household stuffy
particularly kitchen-utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass,
&c. and near a hundred pounds more in iron-work, nails, tools
of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges> and every necessary thing
J could think ofj *
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees j
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shotof all sifces,
three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and*
because I knew not what time and what extremities I was pro-
viding for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides
swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and lialberts:
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores ^
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns
tnore than ha wanted for his^hip, to leave behind, if there was
occasion pthat* when we came there> we might build a fort, and*
*ttan .it against all sort3 of emmies: and, indeed, I at first
fought there would be need enough for all, and much more0*;
^ we hoped to maintain our possession of the island i-as s$air
be seen in the course of that story. -1'
I had not such bad luck in this voyage-as I had been useUtoi
I**eet with 5 and therefore shall have the less occasion to inter-*
^ptthe reader > who perhaps may be impatient to hear how [
Blatters-went with my colony*- y^t some odd accidents, cross'
B2
winds, and bad weather, happened on this first setting out*
which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first: and
I, who had never made but one voyage, viz, my first voyage
to Guinea, in which I might be said to come back again, a*
the voyage was at first designed, began to think the same ilj
fate attended me; and that I was born to be never contented
with being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at sea*
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-
bound two and twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty j so that while we lay here, we never touch*
cd the ships stores, but rather added to them. Here, also, I
took in several live hogs, and two cows, with their calves J
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore \tx
my island j but we found occasion to dispose otherwise ot
them.
We set out on the £th of February from If eland, and had &
very fair gale of wind for sopie days. As I remember, it might
be about the eoth of February, in the evening late, when the
mate, having the watch, came into the round-house, and told
us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired -, and while he
was telling us of it, £ boy came irj, and told us the boatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter*
deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing; but in a few
minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was
some very terrible fire at a distance: immediately we bad re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that there
could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no,
not for 500 leagues, for it appeared at W. N. W. Upon this
we concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and as, by
our hearing the noise of guns just before, we concluded that
it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and were
presently satisfied we should discover it; because the further
we sailed, the greater the light appeared; though the weathef
being hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light for
a, while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair
fi>£U8f though not much of it, and the weather clearing xxpa
little, we could; plainly discern that it was a great ship oh fire*
in the middle of the sea.
01 was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not
at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it: J presently
recollected my former circumstances* and in what condition I
was in, when takeji up by the Portuguese captain j and how
*»uch more deplorable die circumstances of the poor creatures
longing to that ship must be, if they had no other ship in
company with them. Upon this, I immediately ordered that
five guns should be fired, one soon after another 5 that, it
Possible, we might give notice to them that there was help
fot them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat $ for though we could see the flames
of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for day-light j when, on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
Up in the air j and immediately, that is to say, in a few.
Minutes, all the fire was out, that is to say, the rest, of the *hip
sunk This was a terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, for
the sake of the poor me» 5 who, I concluded, must be either
all destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boat, in the middle of the ocean -, which, at present, by .rea-
son it was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them as
well as I could, I caused light* to be hting Out in all the part*
of the ship where we could, and which we had lanthottis for,
and kept firing guns all the night long j letting them know, by.
this, that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the
ship's boats- by the help.of our perspective glasses * found tfaci*-
were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in
the water. We perceived they rowed, the wind being against
them; that they saw our ship,, and did their utmost to make
Us see them. , .
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know-we
saw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come
onboard; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
Iu little more than half an hour, we came up with diem;
mid, in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four
Uieri, women, and children; for there were a great many
Upon the whole, we found -it was a French merchant-ship
of 300 tons, homeward-bound from Quebec, in the river of
Canada. The master gave us a long account of the distress of
his ship; how the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence
of the steersman 5 but on his crying out for help, was, as every
body thought, entirely put out 5 but they soon found that
«ome sparks of the first fire had gotten into some part of
the ship 50 difficult to come at, that they could not effectually
quench it 5 and afterwards getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hoU;
and mastered all the skill and all the application they were able
to exert.
They had no more to do then, but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being their
long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was
of no great service to them, other than to get some fresh water
and provisions into her, after they had secured their lives
1. from the fire. They had, indeed, small hope of their lives by
getting into these boats, at that distance from any land -, only*
as they said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and a
possibility that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might
take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass -, and were
preparing to make the best of their way back to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at S. £<
; by E. They had as much provisions and water, as, with spar-
ing it so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about twelve days; in which, if they had no bad weather, and
no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he might get to
the Banks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take some
fish, to sustain them till they might go on shore. But there
were so many chances against them in all these cases, such as
• storms, to overset and founder them j rams and cold, to benumb
and perish their limbs; % contrary winds, to keep them out and
starve them j that it must have been next to miraculous if they
. had escaped.
'. In the midst of their consternation, every one being hopeless
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told
me they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a
gun fire, and after that four more $ these were the five guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light. This re-
vived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above*
I desired it should, viz. that there was a ship at hand for their
help. . It was upon the hearing of these guns, that they took
down their masts and sails: the sound coming from the wind-
ward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time after
this, hearing no more guns, they fired three muskets, one a
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being
contrary, we never heard.
* Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably
surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, which,
as I have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night:
this set them to wQrk with their oars, to keep their boats a-
head,, at least, that we might the sooner come up with them $
U
*nd, at tost, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw
them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
grange ecstasies, the variety of postures, which tliese poor de-
livered people ran into, to express the joy of their souls4 at so
^expected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described f
?>ghs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of the head and
Wis, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy, a
Burpee of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it: there were
*°me in tears, some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had
heen in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving, and
downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
^eir feet, others wringing their hands: some were dancing,
s°me singing, some laughing, more crying; many quite
dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting; se-.
veral. swooning, and ready to faint; and a few were crossing
themselves, and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that
^ere thankful afterwards, but the passion was too strong for
them at first, and they were not able to master it: thby were*
thrown into ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy; and it was but a
Very few that were composed and serious in their joy.
Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from
Hie particular circumstance of that nation they belonged to; I
iflean the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
^ore passionate> and more sprightly, and their spirits more
fluid, than in other nations. I am not philosopher enough to
determine the cause; but nothing I had ever seeabefore camo
Up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was iny
^hen he found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it y
a*id the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
1 delivered from the villains that set them, on shore in the island,
^me a little way towards it; but nothing was to compare to
this, either that I saw in Friday, or any where else in my life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did. not
*how themselves, in that different manner Ihave mentioned, hi
different persons only; but all the variety would appear, in a
8hort succession of moments, in one and;the same person. A
^an that we saw this minute dumb, and as it were stupid and
Unfounded, would the next minute be dancing and hollowing
ttke an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or
Pulling his clothes- to pieces, and stamping them under his
feet, liko a madman; in a few moments after that, we would
kave him alMn tears, then sick, swooning, and, had not imme*
diate help been had, would in a lew moments have been dead*
and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but
with the greatest part of them: and, if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to let blood of about diirty of them.
There were two priests among them, one an old man, and
the other a young man; and that which was strangest was*
the oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on
board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropt down stone deadj
to all appearance; not the least sign of life could be perceived
in him: our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to
recover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed
he was not dead: At length he opened a vein in his arm, having
first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much a*
possible: upon this the blood, which only dropped at first, flotf*
ing freely, in three minutes after the man opened his eyes*
and a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better, and
in a little time quite well. After the blood was stopped, h*
walked about; told us he was perfectly well; took a dram of
cordial which die surgeon gave him, and was what we called
come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after this, they*
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleed'
ing a French woman that had feinted, and told him the priest
was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the
change of his circumstances in his mind, and again-this put
him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits whirled about faster thai*-
the vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot and fever*
ish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that-
ever was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep>
which, after some time, operated upon him, and he awoke next
morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with great command of his pas**
sions, and was really an example of a serious, well-governed
mind: at his first coming an board the ship, he threw himself
flat on his face, prostrating himself, in thankfulness for his de*
liverance, in which 1 unhappily and unseasonably disturbed
him, really thinking he had been in a swoon; but he spoke
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving Gojd thanks forhte
deliverance j begged me to leave him a few moments, and that*
next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left
him, but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued
in that posture about three minutes, or little more, afcer I left
Jbim$ then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a
Sreat deal df seriousness and affection, but with tears in his
^es> thanked me, that had, under God, given him, and so
j ariy miserable creatures, their lives. I told him I had no
,°otn to move him to thank God for it, rather than me, for I
had
seen that he had*done that already; but, I added, that it
, Vas nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all men,
nd that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to God,
J^o had blessed us so far, as to make us the instruments of his
^ercy to so many of his creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himself to his country-
°lks; laboured to compose them; persuaded, entreated, ar-
^ed, reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them
uhin the exercise of their reason j and with some he had
^eess, though others were for a time out of all government
-themselves,
. 1 cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may
^ Useful to those into whose bands it may fail, for the guiding
^rnselves in all the extravagances of their passions > for if an
e*cess of joy can cany men out to such a length beyond the
re**ch of their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger,
*age, and a provoked mind, carry us to? And, indeed, here I
SaW reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions
°f every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of
*orrow and anger.
We were somediing disordered, by, these extravagances
j»mong our new guests, for the first day; but when they had
^en retired, lodgings provided for them, as well as our ship
^ould allow, and they had slept heartily—as most of them did,
^itig fatigued and frightened-—they were quite another sort of
teople the next day.
. Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
^ndness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known,
are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and
J)s of the priests came to mo the next day, and desired to speak
*}& me and my nephew t the commander began to consult
^!m us what should be done with them > and, first, they told
s that as we had saved their lives, so all they had was little
*&ough for a return to us for that kindness received. The cap-
.a*n said they had saved some money, and some things of va-
**e> in their boats, catched hastily out of the flames, and if we
*ould accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it all to
Us 5 they only desired to be set on shord somewhere in our way,
^v"ere, if possible, they might get a passage to France, My
^sphew was for accepting their money at first-word, and *>
consider what to do with them afterwards; but I overrule*
him in that part, for I knew what it was ta be set on shore
in a strange country: and if the Portuguese captain that tooK
me up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for m/
deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a slav^
at theBrasils as I had been at Barbarr, the mere being sold to
a Mahometan excepted: and pcrlraps a Portuguese is not £
much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, mucn
worse.
I therefore tolcl the French captain that we had taken then1
up in their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to d<*
so, as we were fellow creatures; and we would desire to b0
so delivered, if we were in the like, or any other extremity?
that we had done nothing for them but what we believed they
would have done for us, if we had been in their case, and they
in ours; but that we took them up to save them, not to plun'
der them; and it would be a most barbarous tiling to ta^
that little from them which they had saved out of the fire, an<*
then set them on shore and leave them; that this would be
first to save them from death, and then kill the^n ourselves?
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starving; and
therefore I would not let the least thing be taken from them'
As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was afl'
exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to tb^
Bast Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to
the westward a very great way, and perhaps were directed W
Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impos'
sible for us wilfully to change our voyage on their particular
account; nor could my nephew, the captain, answer it to th^
freighters, with whom he was under charter-party to pursue h*5
voyage by the way of Brasil: and all I knew we could do frr
tHem, w£s to put ourselves in the way of meeting with othc*
ships homeward-bound from the West Indies, and get them a
passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind/
they could,not but be very thankful for it; but they were in
a very' great consternation, especially the passengers, at tl)0
notion of being carried away to the East Indies: they then en*
treated me, that seeing I was driven so far to the westward
before I met with them, I would at least keep on. the same
course, to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was. probable
I might meet with some ship or sloop that they might hire to
carry them back to Canada/ from whence they came.
, I thought this was but* a reasonable<request on their part, and
^erefpre I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered,
n at to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would
ot only be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but
v.°,uld be ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our pro-
ISlons; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but what
./.Unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in
n Cn no one could say we were to blame; for the laws of
.jtf and nature wbuld have forbid that we should refuse to
^ke up two boats full of people in such a distressed condition;
J*d the nature of the thing, as well respecting ourselves as
otK *>00r PeoP*e> °bligedus to set them on shore somewhere or
ry^t for their deliverance: so I consented that we would car-
^ them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
Y°d if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in the West
^dies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty
|?°d; and as the winds had continued in the points' between
^* E. and S. E. a long time, we missed several opportunities
Sf sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to
*;ufope, whereof two were French, from St. Christopher's; but
Jey had been so long beating up against the wind, that they
J^rst take in no passengers, for fear of wanting provisions for
j**e voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should take
j*5 so we .were obliged to go on. It was about a week after
Jta that we made the Banks of Newfoundland; where, to
***°rten my story, we put all our French people on board z
r*K which they hired at sea there, to put them on shore*
nd afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
envisions to victual themselves with. When I say, all the
r5nch went on shore, I should remember that the young
Jjriest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
e$ired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
°a$t of Coromandel; which I readily agreed to, for I wonder^
5*% liked the man, and had very good reason, as will appear
terwards j also four otohe seamen entered themselves on our
*Pt and proved very useful fellows.
. *i*om hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steer-
t?S away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, some-
^tties little or no wind at all $ when we met with another sub-
til *°r our ^um^nity to work upon, almost as deplorable as
^at before.
.^ At was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, and
?e^9th day of March 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course
• fi. and by S„: we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and
that she bore up to us, but could not at first know what to
make of her, till after coming n little nearer, we found she had
lost her main top-mast, fore-mast and bowsprit > and presently
she iired a gun, as a signal of distress.-. the weather was pretty
good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to
speak with her*
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbados
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few daf
before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while t*>e
captain and chief mate were both gone on shore; so that, *#'
sid«s the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent ca»*
for good artists to bring the ship home. They had been alread/
nine weeks Sit sea, and had met with another terrible stot&>
after the hurricane was over, which had blown them quiteo^
of their knowledge to the westward, and in which they \<$
their masts, as above. They told us they expected to have ^
the Bahama islands, but were then driven away again to ti#
south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N. N. W. the sai^
lhat blew now.; and having no sails to work the ship with t>ut
a main-course, and a kind of square-sail upon a jury fore-ma^'
which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, b^
were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
( But that which was worst of ail was, that they were almO^
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they h$*
undergone: their bread and flesh was quite gone; they had flat
one ounce left in the ship, and had none for eleven days. T^
only relief they had was, their water was not all spent, and the/
had about half a barrel of flour left $ they had sugar enough
some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at firsts but theyy*'&c
devoured; and they had seven casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid servant/ &
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship #&
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before tW
hurricane began; and having no provisions of their own Je&
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest; for tbe
seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves
had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers•)
and they were, indeed, in a condition, that their misery **
very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had 9°*
led me (the weather being fair, and the wind abated) to go °n
board the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion*
commanded the ship, had been on board our ship, and ho toj<*
me, indeed, they had tbrde passecgers jn the great cabin, that
>ere in a deplorable condition: nay, says lie, I believe they
^e dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
?avS) and I was afraid to inquire after them, said he, for I
ad nothing to relieve them with,
"We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief
^e could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with
fty nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we
^ gone away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of
^erica, to have supplied ourselves 5 but there was on neccs-
*% for that.
But now they were in a new danger 5 for they were afraid
°* eating too much, even of that little we gave them* The
f^ate or commander brought six men with him in his boatj
^ these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so
*eaka that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate him*
Self was veiy ill, and half starved; for he declared he had re»
€<*rved nothing from the men, and went share and share *alik«
^*th them in every bit they eat.
. I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him
^mediately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he
^gan to be sick, and out of order; so he stopped a while, and
^Ur surjgeon mixed him up something with some broth, which
|*e said would be to him both food and physic; and after he
^ad taken it, he grew better. In the mean time, I forgot not
t"e men; I ordered victuals to be given them; and the poor
features rather devoured than eat it: they were so exceeding
"Hngry, tilat tiiev were *m a kind ravenous, and had no com-
mand of themselves; and-two of them ate with so much greedi-
*less, that they were in danger of their lives the next morning.
The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me,
^d brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my
pst coming on shore in my island, where I had never the
* e3«t mouthful of food, or any prospect of procuring any; be-
*'de$ the hourly apprehensions I had of being made the food of
^her creatures.. But all the while the mate was thus relating
tQ me the miserable condition of the ship's company, I could
.*£* put out of my thought the story he had told me of the
*"ree poor creatures in the great cabin* viz. the mother, her
*0r». and the maid-servant, whom he had heard'nothing of for
*wo or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess, they had
wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great: by
*yhich I understood, that they had really given them no food
^all, and that therefore they must be perished, and be all
ving dead, perhaps, on the floor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain;
on board with his men, to refresh them, so I aJso forgot no*
the starving crew that were left on- board, but ordered ntf
own boat to go on board the ship, and, with my mate and
twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five
pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cati^
the meat to ba boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in
the *cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to eat raw, of
taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and then K>
give every man but a very little at a time $ and by this caution
he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed thefli*
selves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the grea*
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in; an<»
if they were alive, to comfort them, and give them what re-
freshment was proper: and the surgeon gave him a large
pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he had given
the mate that was on board, and which he did not question
would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having;*
great mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the sh'P
itself would present me with, in a more lively manner than *
could have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as ye
now called him, with me, and went myself, a little after, in
their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to gef
the victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate
observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room
<lobr; and the man he placed there, after using all possible
persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force f however*
lie caused some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the pot, and sof-
tened with the liquor of the meat, which they call brewis, ana
gave them every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told
them it was for their own safety that he was obliged to give
them but little at a time. But it was all in vainj and-hud 1
not come on board, and their own commander and officers
with me, and with good words, and some threats also, of
giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into
the cook-room by force, and tore the meat out of the furnace)
for words are indeed of very small force to a hungry belly:
however, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cau-
tiously for the first, and the next time gave thera more> and^
last filled their bellies, and the men did well enough
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of.
Mother nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first, the ship's
^ompany had so little for themselves, it was but too true that
*jey had at first kept them very low, and at last totally ne-
sted them; so that for six or seven days it might be said,
.T^y had really no food at all, and for several days before very
httfe. The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a
^°rnan of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could so
?ffectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under
!* > and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the
*^or or deck, with her back up against the sides, between two
c£airs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her.
Moulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My. mate said.
a^ he could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon
{lut some broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and
'fted up one hand, but could not speak; yet slie understood
^at he said, and made signs to him, intimating that it was
top late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have
s*id they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
^*s exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get
*°nie of the broth into her mouth, and,,as he said, got two or
^rec spoonfuls down; though I question whether he could be,
s^e of it or not: but it was too late, and she died the same
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most
Affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a
|^hin bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in.
•'ttt. He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having.
e^ten up the rest of it: however, being young, and having.
|*?°re strength than his mother, the mate got something down.
£1} throat, and he began sensibly to revive; though by giving
^» some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraor-.
^nary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
'-But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon
j1? deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen
^own with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs
^fe distorted j one of her hands was elapsed round the frame
°* a chair, and she griped it so hard, that we.could not easily*
*?ake her let it go: her other arm lay over her head, and her
*e<r* lay both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin
^kle: in short, she lay just like one in the agonies of deaths
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and
^iiiedwith the thoughts of death, but, as the men told'u*
Afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she
saw dying for two or three days before, and whom she loved
most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our
surgeon, who was* a man of very great knowledge and expe*
rience, had, with great application, recovered her as to life, he
had her upon hrs hands as to her senses y for she was little less
than districted for a considerable time after, as shall appe^f
presently.
Whoever shall read thesis memorandums must be desired to
consider, that visits at sea are not like? a journey into the coun-
try, where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a
place ', our business was to relieve this distressed ship's ere**'
but not lie by for them; and though they were willing to steer
the same course with us for some days, yet we could carry n°
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts: however, &
their captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast*
and a kind of a topmast to his jury foremast, we did, as it were>
He by him for three or four days j and then having given hi**1
live barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit
and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things we coutf
spare j and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and soitf0
pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them j taking
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their goods.
l*he young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty*
well-bted, modest and sensible youth, greatly dejected with
the foss of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father bo*
a few months before, at Barbadoes: he begged of the surged
to speak to me to take him out of the ship; for he said th«
cruel feHows had1 murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they
Had, that is to say, passively; for they might have spared '*
small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might hav^
Sreserved her life, though it had-been but just enough to keep
er alive: but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice
110 rigjif > and' therefore is remorseless, and capable of no com*
]&ssioh.
The surgeon told him how* far we were going, arid that i*
Would carry him away from all his friends, and put him»pf^
liaps in as bad circumstances almost as those we found him '&>
that is to say, starving in the world. He said it mattered n^
whither he went, if he was but delivered from the terribly cre^
that he was among j that the captain (by which he meant me, fo*
fie could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, and h*
*** sure would not hurt htnxj and as for the maid, he was
f^i if she came to herself, she would be very thankful for it,
^'us carry them where we would. The surgeon represented
^ case so affectionately to* me, tliat I yielded* and we took
reia both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
^atfs of sugav, which could not be removed or come at; and
aiJ *e» youth- hadf a bill of lading for them, 1 made his com-
mander sign a writing, obliging himself to go, as soon as he
c**ne to Bristol, to- one- Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to
^kpm the wmtlV said he was- related, and ta deliver a letter
Hfeh I wrote to* him, and all the goods he had. belonging to
^e deceased widow; which I suppose was not done, for I
^d* never ream that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is
^t probable, lost at- sea; being in so disabled a: condition, and
B° 6r from* any'land', thar I am of opinion the first storm she
**** with afterwards she might founder in the sea* far she was
*^Y, and1 had> damage-in her hold, when we met whin her.
r. I Was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had
^rtosr tolerable voyage, as to weather, though* at first, the
Ijfods had been- contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the
ttfe incidents of wind, weather, current^ &c. on the rest of
% voyage; but, to shorten my story, for the sake of what is
F° follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habitation* the
5,W, on the 10th of April, l6g5. It was with no small
*,fficulty that-1 found the place j for as I came to it, and went
t0ln it, before, on the south and east side of the island, as
^bgfrom the Brasils, sa now, coming in between the main
*nc* the island, and having no chart for the coast, or any land-
**?&; I did not know it when I' saw it, or know whether I
^ it or not.
. We beat about a great while; and' went ashore on several
IfWs in tlie mouth of the-great river Oonooque, but none
?rniy purposed only this I learned by my coasting the shore,
J^I was under one gteat mistake before, viz. that the conti-
ent whicii I thought I saw from the island I lived in, was
***% no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands,
!^Cn'mg from one to the other side of the extended mouth of
*at great river; and that the savages who came to my island
Ve**e riot properiy those which we call Cm ibees, but islanders,
!?£ °ther barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited some-
,n§ nearer to our side than the rest.
*n short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose;
?°IJie I found were inhabited, and some were not: on one of
Ifem I found Some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there;
but speaking-with them, found they had a sloop lay in asniajj
creek hard by, and came thither to make,salt, and to catd*
vsome pearl muscles, if they could 5 but that they belonged #
the Islede Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the latitude <*
10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes wi^
the ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which >*f
had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with. th#f
very good will, at length I came fair on the south side of #tf
island, and presently knew the very countenance of the pla#'
so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the li$e
creek where my old habitation*was.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked hi**
if he knew were he was; he looked about a little, and present
clapping his hands, cried, O yes, O there, O yes, O the*6'
pointing to our ol4 habitation, and fell dancing and caper!*1?
like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him &0&'
jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find any bo&t
here or no? And do you think we shall see- your fathef •
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but whefv
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejec{''
ed, and I could *ee the tears run down his face very plefl*''
fully. What is the matter, Friday? says I -7 are. you troubl^
because you may see your father? No, no, says he, shaking ^
head, no see him more j no, never more see him again. Vlty
$0, said I, Friday j how do you know that? O no, O no, &r
Fridays he long ago die, long ago 5 he much old man. yfcw
well, says I, Friday, you don't know j but shall we see any ^
else then? The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and^
points to the hill just above my old house; and though we W
 
suppose, because I could hot hit the place; for the fellow ^
right, as I found upon inquiry the next day j and there Vtf
five or six men all together, who stood to look at the ship'
.not knowing what to think of us. l
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the EngllS
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them noti^
we were friends; and in .about half a quarter of an hour aft^Z
we perceived a smoke arise from the side of .the creek; $a>
immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me; &
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly <J*
. a
* £re> taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom
and t0lcl the Storjr of my livmS tnere> and the manner of it,
**d every particular both of myself and those I left there, and
vj*° was, on that account, extremely desirous to go with me.
e had besides about sixteen men well armed, if we had found
ny new guests there which we did not know of j but we had
0 Heed of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
e rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed
r? eye upon was the Spaniard whose life 1 had saved, and
j ° i knew by his race perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall,
«escribe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at
rst but myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat,
0r the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance,
, .good way off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of
.,rtl j and if they had not let him go ashore, he would have
^ttiped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew
r**y to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
rade any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
f|3ve seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when
^ came to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him,
st*oked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon
jj tree, and lay down by him j then stood and looked at him,
,s any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an
j °ur together; then lie down on the ground, and stroke hi$,
egs, and kiss them, and then get up again, and stare at him;
, ^ would have thought the fellow bewitched. But it would
ave made a dog laugh the next day to see how his passion ran
^t another wayj in the morning he walked along the shore,
i° and again, with his father several hours, always leading him
»y the hand, as if he had been a lady j and every now and then
e^ould come to the boat to fetch something or other for him,
^lther a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit-cake, or something
Mother that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another
r*Y 5 for then he would set the old man down upon the ground
nd dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures and
Futures $ and all the while he did this, he would be talking to
^J*1* and telling him one story or other of his travels, and of
«at had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the
aftie filial affection was to be found in Christians to their pa-
^^s in our part of the world, one would be tempted to say, there
°*&d hardly have been any need of the fifth commandment,
v But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It would
^ needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities
that the Spaniards received me with. The fiat Spaniard, whv>
as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved} llS
came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a $*&
of truce also; and he not only did not know me at first, ba
he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was con*'
till I spoke to him. Seignior, said I, in Portuguese, do you no*
know me? At which he spoke not a word, but giving his ttV&*
Jcet to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad
fcaying something in Spanish diat I did not perfectly he#'
came forward and embraced me; telling me he was inexctf?**
ble not to know that face again, that he had once seen as if ^
angel from heaven sent to save his life: he said abundaflC0
'Of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always kno**
how> and then beckoning to the person that attended him, ba#
him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me if A
would walk to my old habitation, were he would give #*e
possession of my own house again, and where I should &
they had made but mean improvements : so I walked aloP#
with him; but, alas! I could no more find die place ag*^
than if I had never been there; for tlity had planted so map/
trees, and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close}9
one another, and in ten years time they were grown so b»Jp
that* in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such win"*
4ngs and blind ways as they themselves only, who made tbG&'
could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortification*:
he told me I would say there was need enough of it, wi?#*
-they had given me an account how they had passed their fin#
since their arriving in the island, especially after they had tpj
misfortune to find that I was gone. He told me he could ^J
but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he-.te^J:
that I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction > ,PP*
that lie had oftentimes a strong persuasion that, one tirtffl °i
other, he should see me again: but nothing that ever beff^
htra in his life, he said, was so surprising and afEicting to h***1
at first, as the disappointment he was under when he &&*
ijack to the island and found 1 was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that y$**
left behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to wy
•roe, the Spaniards all thought themselves much better, amp,*1?
the savages, only that their number was so small *. and, stf*
he, had they been strong enough, we had been aM l°»g QgP1^
purgatory; and with that he grossed himssjf on the? breast
But, Sir, says be, l&opeyeu wUl, ggtr-fae debased **>$#* *
s«all tell you, how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
°Urown preservation; to disarm them, and make them our
objects, who would not be content with being moderately our
Rasters, but would be our murderers. I answered, I was
heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing troubled
jte at my parting from the island bat that they were not come
back, that I might have put them in possession of every thing
^st, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they de-
served; but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad,
^c( should be very far from finding any fault with it: for I
knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and
^ere fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he had
*ent back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they
J^ere in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of;
°ut he made all clear, both to them and to me. First he turned
*° me, and pointing to them, said, these, Sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you; and then turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I was j upon
^hich they all came up, one by one, not as if they had been
, sailors and ordinary fellows, and the like, but really as if they
had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I a monarch or great
conqueror: their behaviour was to the last degree obliging and
Courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which
very well became them j and, in short, they had so much more
fanners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their civili-
zes, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island,
'Sfter my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many
Widents, which the former part of my relation will help to
Understand, and which will, in most of the particulars,* refer to
the account I have already given, that I cannot but eom-
^it them, with great delight, to the reading of those that
^orne after me.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
Person, which will put me to the expence of ten thousand said
*J, and said he's, and he told rite's, and / told him*s, and the
*&e; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can
gather them out of my memory, from what they related to me,
^d from what I met with in my conversing with them and
with the place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can,
* must go back to the circumstance in which I left the island,
ahd in which the persons were of whom I am to* speak. And
vfirst, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday*
-father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives I had rescued
from the savages) in a large cdnoe, to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that be
Jeft behind him, in order to save them from the like calami^
4h*-M he had been in, and in order to succour them for the pre*
sent; and that, if possible, we might together find some way
for our deliverance afterwards.
When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, of
"*he least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more
than I had twenty years before, much Jess had I any fore*
knowledge of what afterwards happened, I mean, of ^
English ship coming on shore there to fetch me offj and '*
could not but be a very great surprise to them, when tbey
oame back, not only to find Jhat I was gone, but to find three
strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left be*
^hind me, which would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I
•might begin where I left off, was of their own part j and *
-desired he would give me a particular account of his voyage
back to his countrymen with the boat, when J sent him t°
fetch them over. He told, me there was little variety in that
part, for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way?
having had very calm weather, and a smooth sea. As &f
.Jhis countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that the/
were overjoyed to see him, (it seems he was the principal man
-among them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship*
wrecked in having been dead some time); they were, he
said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that
;he was fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they were
.satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the rest of their
prisoners; that when he told them the story of his deliverance*
and in what manner he was furnished for carrying them away*
-it was like a "dream to them, and their astonishment, he sai<J>
was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told
them who he was, and told them the story of his exaltation ifl
-Pharaoh's court $ but when he showed them the arms, *he
powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them iot
their journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves*
took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immeoTi*
ately prepared to come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes: and in this they
were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of to
&ut to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two
^rge canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing,
j1* for pleasure. In these they came away the next morning.
j* seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for
J^y had no baggage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor any
^tfg in the world but what they had on them, and a few
*°°ts to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
, They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, un-
j^kily for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as
* Mentioned in my other part, and to get off from the island,
having three of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned,
disagreeable villains behind me, that any man could desire to
^et with; to the poor Spaniards' great grief and disappoint^
^ent, you may be sure.,
^ The only just thing the rogues did was, that when tho
Spaniards came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave
lkem provisions and other relief, as I had ordered them to do -,
pso they gave them the long paper of directions which I had
eft with them, containing the particular methods which-1
*°Qk for managing every part of ray life there; the way how
* baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn j
«g\y J cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every
thing I did j all this being written* down, they gave to the
Spaniards (two of them understood English well enough):
**Qr did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any
thing else, for they agreed very well for some time. They
jfcve them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they
k?gan to live very sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had
Seen pretty much of my methods, and Friday's father together,
Managed all their affairs: but as for the Englishmen, they did
^thing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises; and when they came home at night, the Spaniards
Provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the
°thers but have let them alone; which, however, they could
ll°t 'find in their hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the
^anger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they let
Jhe others eat. The differences, nevertheless, were- at first
£ut trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at last it
broke out into open war: and it begun with all the rudeness
an4 insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
Provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common sense:
*nd though, it is true, the first relation of it came from the
Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet when
* came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I mi*5*
supply a defect in my former relation; and this was, I iot%oi
to set down, among the rest, that just as we were weighing the
anchor to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on board of
our ship, which I was once afraid would have turned to a se*
cond mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing llP
his courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners*
he laid them in irons; and as they had been active in the ft>r"
mer disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words, the
second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England/
and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running av^ay
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not in*
tend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship j and
some of them had put it into the heads of the rest that the
captain only gave them good words for the present, till thtf
should come to some English port, and that then they should
be all put into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate ff>}
intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it j upon which tf
was desired that I, who still passed for a great man amoflf
them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men;
and tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the tifl#
past should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing to]
honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and the more *Q
when I caused the two men that were in irons to be released
and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night}
the wind also falling calm next morning, we found that o*#
two men who had been laid in irons had stole each of them *
musket, and some other weapons, (what powder or shot they
had we knew not, and had taken the ship's pinnace, whfck
was not yet haled up, and run away with her to their com-
panions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I or-
dered the long-boat on shore, with twelve men and the mate>
and away they went to seek the rogues -, but they could nei'
ther find them or any of the rest, for they all fled into the
woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroy*
ed their plantations, burned all their household stuff andiur-
niture, and left them to shift without it \ but having no orders,
he let it all alone, left every thing as he found it, and bring-
ing the pinnace away, came on board without them. These
two men made their number five $ but the other three villain*
^ere so much more wicked than they, that after they had been
two or three, days together, they turned die two new comers
°*U of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
*° do with them 3 nor could they, for a good while, be per-
vaded to give them any food : as for the Spaniards, they were
n°t yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business be*
San to go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the
three English brutes to have taken in their two countrymen
°gain, that, as they said, they might be all one family; but
*«ey would not hear of it: so the two poor fellows lived by
themselves; and finding nothing but industry and application
^ould make them live comfortably, they pitched their tenU
Qu the north shore of the island, but a little more to the west>
to be out of danger of the savages, who always landed on the
*ast part9 of the island.
Here they* built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the
•Wrier to lay up their magazines and stores in $ and the Spa-
^ards having given them some corn for seed, and especially
some of the peas which I had left them, they dug, planted,
*ad enclosed, after the pattern I had set for.them all, and be-
gan to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn was oh the
ground; and though it was but a little bit of land which they
had dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet it was
Enough to relieve them, and find them with bread a,nd other
eatables; and one of the fellows being the cook's mate of die
*hip, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and such other
preparations as the rice and the milk, and such little flesh as
they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in, this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me>
had given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any
right to it', and that they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pay rent for ^thern.
The two men thinking they were jesting at first, asked them
to cortte in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were
that they had built, and to tell them what rent they demanded;
dnd one of them merrily said, if they were the ground-land*
lords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land, and
ttiade improvements, they would, according to die custom of
landlords, grant a long lease: and desired they would get a
Bcrivenj&r to draw the writings. One of die three, cursing and
raging* told them they should see they were not in jest , and
going to 4 little place at a distance, where the honest men had
made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes 3 firebrand, and
daps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on
lire} and it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away*
and trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without some
difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting
him away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in
his hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly*
and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, run in after
him, and immediately they came both out with their muskets,
and the man that was first struck at with the pole, knocked
the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with the stock of
his musket, and that before the other two could come to help
him, and then seeing the rest come at them, they stooa
together, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to
them, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate
by his danger, told them, if they offered to move hand or foot
they were dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down
their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but
seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley; and they
consented to take their wounded man with them and be gone 5
and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently
with the blow. However, they were much in the wrong,
since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm them
effectually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the
rogues had treated them; for the three villains studied nothing
but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that
they did so.
But not to croud this part with an account of the lesser part
of the rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting
three young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got
to breed up tame for their store; and, in a word, plaguing
them night and day in this manner, it forced the two men to
such a desperation, that they resolved to fight them all three,
the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to this,
they resolved to go to the castle, as they 'called it, that was
my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards all
llved together, at that time, intending to have a fair battle*
*W the. Spaniards should stand by, to see fair play: so they
S°t up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and
called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that
answered that they wanted to sp£ak with them.
. It happened that ihe day before, two of the Spaniards, hav-
lng been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen,
^hom, for distinction, I called the honest men, and he had
^ade a sad complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage
Jfey had met with from their three countrymen, and how they
j*ad ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn that they
Had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the miich-
S°at and their three kids, which was all they had provided
?9r their sustenance -, and that if he and his friends, meaning
*ne Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be starved.
When the Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at
?J*Pper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the threes
Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and
?sked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless,
^offensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a
^fay to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a
great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection iis.they.
Were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What, had
they to do there? that they came on shore without leave; and
that they should not plant or build upon the island; it was.
^Pne of their ground. "Why,'* says the Spaniard, very
Galmly, <f Seignior Inglese, they must not starve/' The
Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn tarpauling* They
P^ght starve and be d d j they should not plant nor build
*n that place. "But what must they do then, Seignior?"
Said the Spaniard. Another of. the brutes returned, Do?
^——n them, they should be servants, and work-for them*
c But how can you expect that of them?" says the Spanfard f
f they are not bought with your money: you have no right
fo make them servants." The Englishman answered, the
island >vas theirs; the governor had given it to them, and no
*Pan had any thing ta do there but themselves; and with that
swore by his Maker that they would go and burn all their
new huts 5 they should build none upon their land. "Why,
Seignior/' says tlie Spaniard, " by the same rule,, we must be
JfPur servants too."—ft Aye/* says the bold dog, " ami so^you
shall too, before we have done with you /' (mixing two or
three G~-d dV-n me's in the proper intervals^ his speech.)
C2
The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer*
However, this little discourse had heated them $ and, starting
up, one says to the other, I think it was he they called Witt:
Atkins, "Come, Jack, let's go, and have t'other brush witb
'em 3 we'll demolish their castle, I'll warrant you j they shall
plant no colony in our dominions."
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent thing*
among themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards
too, when opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems,
did not so perfectly understand them as to know all the par-
ticulars, only that, in general, they threatened them hard fcr
taking the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seemS
they wandered about the country part of the night, and then
lying down in the place which I used to call my bower, they
were weary, and overslept themselves. The case was this J
they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two'
poor men when they were asleep, and, as they acknowledged
afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts while they were
in them, and either burn them there, or murder them as
they came out: as malice seldom sleeps very $ound, it was
very strange they should not have been kept awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as 1?
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and'
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that:
they were up, and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded:
rogues came to their huts.
, When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins*'
who it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his com^
rades, " Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but, d—n them, the birds
are flown." They mused a while, to think what should be
$f& occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it: and
'with that.they shook hands, and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they
had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation 5 they did not set fire, indeed, to any thing*
but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so
limb from limb, that they left not the least stick standing, or
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood: they tore
all their little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw
every thing about in such a manner, that the poor men after-:
^rds fount! some>of their things a mile off their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees
^"ich the poor men had planted 5 pulled up an enclosure they
ha<i made to secure their cattle and their corn; andj in a word,
Jacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde of
Tartars would have done.
The two men were, at this^ juncture, gone to find them out,
at*d had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though:
*"ey were but two to three; so that, had they met, there ceN
tainly would have been bloodshed among them; for they were
ati very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than
t*tey themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged
£ne another, when the three were gone thither, the two were
^eve; and afterwards, when the two went back to find them,
^e three were come" to the old habitation again: we shall see
their different conduct presently. When the three came back
^ke furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work
*bey had been about had put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way of scoffc
and bravado; and one of them stepping up to one of the Spa-
niards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold
of his hat, as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl ab6ut;
fleering in his face, says to him, "And you, Seignior.Jack
Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend yout
fanners." Hie Spaniard, who* though a quiet civil man, was
3s brave a man, as could be, find withal a strong, well-'made
*ttan, looked at him for a good while, and then having: rib
Weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one*
Wow of his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a
Pole-axe j at which one, of the rogues, as insolent as the firs*;
fifed his pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he missed mV
k&dy, indeed^ for the bullets went through his hair, but bnft'bf .
rtvem touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty rritich. TK$
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he realrV
^aSi and that put him into some heat, for,before he acted all*
l$ a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his'
^ork, he stooped, and took the fellow^ musket whom he Had'
knocked down, and was just going ta shoot the rr^n who had;
^edat him? when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the'caveV
catne out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in/
Scared the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and fourtd they!had'tAadfe'
all the Spaniard* then* enemies, as well as their own •dbtm't'ry--
men, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards better words,
would have their arms again -y but the Spaniards, considering
the feud that was between them and the other two English-
men, and that it would be the best method they could take to
keep them from killing one another, told them they would do
them no harm, and if they would live peaceably, they would
be very willing to assist and associate with them as they did
before; but that they could not think of giving them their
arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mischief
with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.
Tiie rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than
to act with reason \ but being refused their arms, they went
raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening what they
would do, though they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards,
despising their threatening, told them they should take care
how they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle, (ot
if they did, they would shoot them as they would ravenous
beasts, wherever they found them > and if they fell into their
hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this*
was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies of hell. As soon as they were gone, the
two men came back, in passion and rage enough also, though
of another kind; for having, been at their plantation, and
finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it will easily.
be supposed they had provocation enough. They could scarce
have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell
them theirs -y and it was strange enough to find that three men
should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at alh
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially having
thus disarmed1 them, made light of their threatenings; but the,
two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them,
what pains soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniard*
interposed here too, and told them, that as they had disarmed
them, they could not consent that they (the two) should pur-
sue them with .hre-arms, and perhaps kill them. "But," said
the grave Spaniard* who was their governor, " we will endea-
Tour to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us:
for there is no doubt but they will come to us again, when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our
assistance: we promise you to make no peace with tbem,
without having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this con-
dition we hope you will promise to use no violence with them,
other than in your own defence." The two Englishmen yielded
*° this very, awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but the
Spaniards protested, that they vdid it only to keep them from
^Oodshed, and to make all easy at last. "For/' said they,
r We are not so many of us; -here is room enough for us all,
^d it is a great pity we should not be all good friends'." At
Jehgth they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habi-
tation was destroyed.
In about five days time the three vagrants, tired with warv-
^ring, and almosbstarved with hunger, having chiefly lived on
forties' eggs all that while, came back to the grove; and find-
lng my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the governor, and
l^o more with him, walking by the side of the creek, they
c3rne up in a very submissive, humble manner, and begged to
^ received again into the family. The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them they had acted so unnaturally by their
c°untrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards) that
^ey could not come to any conclusion without consulting the
**o Englishmen and the resty but, however,, they would,go
to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half
?n hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to
>t; for, it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an
answer, they begged they would send them out some bread in
the mean time, which they did; sending, at the same time,
a large piece of goat's flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they
ate very heartily, for they were hungry enough.
 After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and
a long debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them
v»tK the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder
^em; all which they owned before, and therefore could not
deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the mode-
ratbr between them; and as they had obliged the two English-
^n not to hurt the three while they were naked and unarm-
*$> so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fel-
Ws* two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of larger
^mensions, than they were before; to fence their ground again
XvWe they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
of those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn,
^ere they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore ever*
thjpgir, the same state as they found it., as near as they could *y
^entirely it could not be, the season for the corn, and the
growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to be re-
covered.
Well, they submitted to all thisj and a& they had plenty oC
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly*
and the whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably
together again; only, that these three fellows could never be
persuaded to work, I mean for themselves, except now and
then a little, just as they pleased: however, the Spaniards told
them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly
together, and study the good of the whole plantation, they
would be content to work for them, and let them walk about
and be as idle as they pleased: and thus having lived pretty
well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arm*
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as be*
fore.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and wenj
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures begun to be as insolent and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident happen^
presently upon this, which endangered the safety of them aU t
and they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, afld
look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call
him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, wltf
was now the captain or leader, or governor of the rest, foufld
himself very uneasy in Hie night, and could by no means get
any sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told me tW
story, only found his thoughts tumultuous \ his mind run upot*
men fighting and killing of one another, but was broad awake*
and could not by any means get any sleep; in short, he lay *
great while; but growing more and more uneasy, he resolv.ed
to rise. As they lay, being so many of them, upon goat's skin*
laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for then!*
selves, and not in hammocks and ship-beds, as I did, who wif*
but one, so they had little to do, when they were willing to
rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat*
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready forgoing
any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up*
he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing j
and, besides, the trees which I had. planted, as in my formed
account is described, and which were now grown tall, inter*
cepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that #
was a clear star-light night, and hearing no noise, he returned
and laid him down again: but it was all one j he could not
sleep, nor could he compose himself to any thing like rest 5
but his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he'kndu*
not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about*
8°ing out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling,
?sked who it was that was up? The governor told him how
*had been with him. <f Say you so?" says the other Spa-
niard; "such things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there
is certainly some mischief working near us:" and presently he
?*ked him, " Where are the Englishmen >"—" They are. all
*h their huts," says he, "safe enough." It seems the Spa-
niards had kept possession of the main apartment, and had made
a place for the three Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny,
^'ere always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
**st. « Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something in it,
* am persuaded, from my own experience. lam satisfied our
sPitits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelligence
from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world;
°tid this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew
how to make use of it. Come," says be, " let us go and look
abroad; and if we find nothing at all in it to justify the trou-
ble, I*H tell yoaa story to the purpose, that shall convince you
°f the justice of my proposing it."
In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill,
Here I used to go; but they being strong, and a good com-
pany, not alone, as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up
by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to go up a second
stage to the top, but were going round through the grove, un-
concerned and unwary, when they were surprised with seeing
a light as of fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing
*be voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great number.
'In all the discoveries I had made of die savages landing on
fte island, it was my constant care to prevent them making
lbe least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the
Place; and when by any occasion they came to know it;
ftey felt it so effectually, that they that got away were scarce*
able to give any account of it; for we disappeared as soon as
Possible j nor did ever any that had seen me escape to tell
a*iy one else, except it was the three savages in our last en-
counter, who jumped into the boat; of whom, I mentioned;
1 was afraid they should go home and bring more help.
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men
tnat i0 great a number came now together, or whether they
came ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand,
*be Spaniards could not, it seems, understand j but, whatever
#lt was, it had been their business either to have concealed
themselves, or not to have seen them at all, much less to have
le* the savages have seen that there were any inhabitants in
the place; or to have fallen upon them so effectually, as that
not a man of them should have escaped, which could only bave
been but by getting in between them and their boats: but this
presence of mind was wanting to thern, which was the ruin of
their tranquillity for a great while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor and the mat*
with him, surprised with this sight, run back immediately, arK*
raised their fellows, giving them an account of the imminent
danger they were all in, and they again as readily took the
alarm ;- but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close
within, where they were, but they must all run out to see
how things stood. *
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they
had opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the
light of three fires they had made at a distance from one
another j what they were doing they knew not, and what to
do themselves they knew not. For, first, the enemy were too
many; and, secondly, they did not keep together, but were
divided into several parties, and were on shore in several
places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight f'
and as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the*
shore, they made no doubt but, first or last, some of then*
would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some other placs
where they would see the token of inhabitants; and they were
in great perplexity also for fear of their flock of goaLs, which
would have been little less than starving them, if they should
have been destroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon was>
to dispatch three men away before it was light, two Spaniards
and one Englishmen, to drive all the goats away to the great
valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to drive then*
into the Very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages
ail together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes>
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have*
attacked them; but that coufd not be obtained; tor they were*
some of them two miles off from the other j and, as it appear-
ed afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they^should
take, and beating their brains in considering their present cif<
cumstances, they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, K>
send the old savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, i*
possible, something concerning them; as- what they came for/
what they intended to do, and the like. The old man readily
undertook it; and stripping himself quite - naked, as most of
JJte savages were, away he went. After he had been gone an
^Ur or two, he brings word that he had been among them
^discovered; that he found they were two parties, and of
mvo several nations, who had war with one another, and had a
jjreat battle in their own country: and that both sides having
^ several prisoners taken in the right, they were, by mere
ci^nce, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
doners and making merry, but their coming so by chance
;° the same place had spoiled all their mirth j that they were
{? a great rage at one another, and were so near, that he be-
IeVed they would fight again as soon as day-light began to
^Ppear: but he did not perceive that they had any notion of
atiy body being on the island but themselves. He had hardly
j£ade an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, by
**e unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were
eilgaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade
°Ur people to lie close, and not be seen 3 he told them their
s*fety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie
*^> and the savages would kill one another to their hands,
*nd then the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
**ut it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the English-
men; their curiosity was so importunate upon their prudentials,
"fct they must run out and see the battle: however, they
)!sed some caution too, viz. they did not go openly, just by
^ir own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and
feced themselves to advantage, where they might securely
f^fc them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seea
J^'them 5 but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
^d hereafter.
^ Ihe battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe the
^glishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of
"lem were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of
&reat policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held
J^° hours before they could guess which party would be
r^ten $ but then that party which was nearest our people's
Citation began to appear weakest, and, after some time more,
So*fce of them began to fly 3 and this put our men again into
a great consternation, lest any one of those that fled should
fun into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and there-
by involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
*£e pursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon this
^ey resolved that they would stand armed within the wall,
^i whoever came into the grove, they resolved to. sally out
over the wall and kill them: so that, if possible, not <rtf
should return to give an account of it: they ordered also th*
it should be done with their sword*, or' by knocking tbelj
down with the slocks of their muskets, but not by shootio?
them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise. ,
As they expected it fell out: three of the routed army flf*
for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, *&
in the least knowing whither they went, but running as in*
a thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abfc^
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men's g*e*
satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued them, °*
seen whicli way they were gone; upon this, the Spaniard $*
vcmor, a man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill t£e
three fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of we
hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind them, and s$'
prise and take them prisoners,* which was done. The reside6
of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to s&'f
the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but dra**
ing themselves into a body together, gave two great screai*1*
ing shouts, which they supposed was by way of triumph, #*
so the fight ended: and the same day, about three o'^0^
in the afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. And th^
the Spaniards had their island again free to themselves, th#
fright was over, and they saw no savages in several years af#f*
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of tb^J
den, and viewing the field of battle, they found about two a^
thirty men dead on the spot: some were killed with great lofl$
arrows, some of which were found sticking in their bodie*'
but most of them were killed with great wooden swords, $&*
teen or seventeen of which they found in the field of battle
and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These sword
were strange, great, unwieldy things, and they must be very
strong men that used them; most of those men that wetf
killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we ifl#
say, or, as we call it in English, their "brains knocked out, ^
several their arms and legs broken; so that it is evident thtf
fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not 0°e
man that was not stone dead, for either they stay by their enen^
till they have qaite killed him, or they carry all the wounded
men that are not quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen,for a great "while J
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequent
appeared terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposes
that some time or other they should fall into the hands #
*jose creatures, who would not only kill them a$ enemies, but
*"* them for food, as w$ kill our cattle $ and they professed to
^> that the thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton,
jj^ugh it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead,
^d something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very
Jt°machs, made them sick when they thought of it, and filled
^eir minds with such unusual terror, that they were not them-
**lves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the
%ee English brutes I have been speaking of: and, for a great
J^Ue after, they were tractable, and went about the common
^siness of the whole society well enough j planted, sowed,
**aped, and began to be all naturalized to the country. Bat
^e time after this, they fell into such simple measures again,
*s brought them into a great deal of trouble.
Tbey had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these
lilree being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them ser-
*?&ts, and taught them to work for them; and, as slaves, they
j**d well enough j but they did not take their measures with
^em as I did by ray man Friday, viz. to begin with tliern
^Pon the principle of having saved their lives, and then in*
*tf Uct them in the rational principles of life; much less of reli-
8fon, civilizing, and reducing them by kind usage and affec-
tionate arguings; but as they gave them their food every day,
*o they gave them their work too, and kept them fully em-
ployed in drudgery enough 5 but they failed in this by it, that
jjtey never had them to assist them, and fight for them, *s I
**ad my man Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh
upon my bones. - ,
But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends*
*[>r common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled
^em, they began to consider their general circumstances j and
^e first thing that came under their consideration was, whether,
8eeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
Jnd that there^ were, more remote and retired parts of it equal-
*y adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to their ad-
jutage, they should not rather move their habitation, and
Want in some more proper place for their safety, and especially
*°r the security of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they
Xv°uld not remove'their habitation; because that, some time
0r other, they thought they might hear from their governor
Siflin, meaning me 5 and if I should send any one to seek them,
* should be sure to direct them to that side j where, if they
*hould find the place demolished, they would conclude the sa-
vages had killed us. all, and we were gone; and so our suppv
would go too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to
remove them into the valley where my cave was, where tlij
land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was land
enough: however, upon second thoughts, they altered one
part of that resolution too, and*resolved only to remove part
of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there -, and
so if one part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And
one part of prudence they used, which it was very well th6/
did, viz. that they never trusted those three savages, whic*1
they had prisoners, with knowing any thing of the plantation
they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had ther&
much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of neces*
sity, as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the ttfO
barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming a^vay*
But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation;
yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it first with *
wall or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so seeing
their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of whid1
they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover an<*
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. For thi*
purpose, as I had planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes*
which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good distant *
before the entrance into,my apartments, they went on in th$
same manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space o(
ground, from the trees I had set quite down to the side of tbo
creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and even into
the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving
any place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabout $ these stakes also being of a wood very forward to
grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to have then1
generally much larger and taller than those which I had plant*
ed; and as they grew apace, so they planted them so vecy
thick and close together, that when they had been three
or four years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any
considerable way into the plantation: and, as for that part
which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man1-4
thigh, and among them they placed so many other short ones*
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a pallisado a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it*
but with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could
hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all $ for they did the same by ail th9
ground to the right hand and'to the left, and round even.,*<*
^top of the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for them-
'? Ve* t« come out, but by the ladder placed up to the side of
^e hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from the first
'^ge up to the top; and when the ladder was taken down,
^thing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist it, cduld
c°me at them.
This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less than
,**at they afterwards found occasion for j which served to con-
!&ce me, that as human prudence has the authority of Pro-
vence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi-
nce to set it to work ; and if we listened carefully to the voice
jitj I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters
y^kh our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to ~,
Ut tliis by the way.
I return to the story.—They lived two years after this in
Infect retirement, and had no more visits from the savages.
***ey had, indeed, an alarm given them one morning, which
j™ them into a great consternation j for some of the Spaniards
^Og out early one morning on the west side, or rather end, of
•e island, (which was that end where I never went, for fear
^ being discovered,) they were surprised 'with seeing above
y^nty canoes of Indians just coming on shore. They made
Yfe best of their way home, in hurry enough j and giving the
^m to their comrades, they kept close all that day and the
i e)tti going out only at night to make observation: but they
*d the good luck to be mistaken j for wherever the savages
^ent, they did not land that time on the island, but pursued
*te other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen j
°jje of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one
3&e three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because
/^fellow had not done something right which he bid him do,
i^ seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew a
^jchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and
U* Upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him,
[^ of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow
, ^bar^ous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
^ struck into his shoulders, so that he thought he had cut
/^poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and entreating him
t»ot to murder the poor man, placed himself between him and
& Savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being en-
^&ed the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet,
H swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the
^ge; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and
with a shovel which he had in his hand, (for they were w»
working in the field about their corn-land) ^knocked the bru#
down. Another of the Englishmen running at the saiflj
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down j &
then two Spaniards more came in to help their man, and *
third Englishman fell in upon them. They had none of th^
any fire-arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and othe
tools, except this third Englishman; lie had one of my ruW
cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards, **
wounded them both. This fray set the whole family in *
uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three Eng^
men prisoners. The next question was, what should be d^
with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were *°
very furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew *&
what course to take with them, for they were mischievousi0
the highest degree, and valued not what hurt they did to w
man j so that, in short, it was not safe to live with then*.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so m^J
words, that if they had been of his own country, he v?od
have hanged them; for all laws and all governors were to p^
serve society, and those who were dangerous to the soc'tfv
ought to be expelled out of it $ but as they were Englishm^J
and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman tfl*
they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would1*5
them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to ^
judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were tl*ei
countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said tfrw
desired it might not be left to them 5 <e for/' says he, " I *?
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows:" and ^^
that he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the thr*j&
had proposed to have all the rive Englishmen join togeth**'
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sl^R.,!
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to "V*1,
Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins, would you murder i*'*7'
What have you to say to that?" The hardened villain was**j
far from denying it, that he said it was true j and, G—d d-^*
him, they would do it still, before they had done with th#^
"Well, but .Seignior Atkins/* says the Spaniard, " what b«*
we done to you, that you will kill us \ And what would ?£
get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent you kjl"
ing us? Must we kill you, or you kill us > Why will YoVL?^
us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins?" says the Spania^
very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such *m>
** the SpanaircTs making a jest of it, that, bad he not been held
Y three men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was
fought he would have attempted to have killed the Spaniard
^ the middle of all the company. This hair-brained carriage
°kliged them to consider seriously what was to be done: the
:^wo Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage,
^ere of the opinion that they should hang one of the three,
$r an example to the rest; and that particularly it should be
**e that had twice attempted to commit murder with his,
Ratchet j and, indeed, there was some reason to believe he had
^ne it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition
'^ith the wound he had received, that it was thought he could
Hot live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would never
consent to put an Englishman to death, though he had mur-
^ed half of them: nay, he said, if he had been killed him--
self by an Englishman, and had time, left to speak, it should
«e that they should pardon him.
- This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard,
**hat there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are
'taost apt to prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so
*hey all came into it; but then it was to be considered what
should be done to keep them from doing the mischief they
designed j for all agreed, governor and all, that means were
to be used for preserving the society from danger. After a long
debate, it was agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, and
<*ot permitted to have either gun, powder, shot, sword, orany
Weapon,; and should be turned out of .the society, and left to
live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
kut that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should
inverse with them, speak with them, or have any thing to
do with them: that they should be forbid to come within a
'^rtain, distance of the place where the rest dwelt; and if they
offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or de-
stroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle
belonging to the society, they should die without mercy, and
f^ey would shoot them wherever they could find them.
•^The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence, considered a little upon it; and turning to 'the two
honest Englishmen, said, " Hold; you must reflect that it will
t* long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must therefore allow them provi-
sions:" so he caused tp be added, that they should have a pro-
portion .of <cprn given'them to last them eight months, and for
seed to sow, by winch time they plight be supposed to\j$0
*0me of their own -, that they shqutd have six- mileh;go*^
four he-goats, and six. kids given tjiem, as" well for pres&$
subsistence as for a store; and that they should jiave tool?
given thcrn for t{ieir work in the fields, such as six hatelietfy
an adze, a saw, and the like 5 but they should have, noneiJf
these tools or provisions, unless they would swear, solemn')
that they would not hurt^or injure any of the Spaniards wi$
them, or of their fellow Englishmen. ,»$!
Thus tjiey dismissed them the society, and turned them 0^
to shift for themselves.* They went away sullen and refractor^
as neither content to go away or to stay; but, as- there.w#
no remedy, they went, pretending to go and. cliposQ. a.pl^f
where they would settle themselves \ and some provision*
were given them, but no weapons. . • „, , /. ..
About four or five days after, they came again, for sorps
victuals, and gave the governor an account where tliey M?
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a JiatutatK?11
and plantation; and it was a very convenient place, indeed
on the remotest part of the island, N. E. much about the pJ#&
where I providentially landed in my first voyage, when k
%vas driven out to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, '.in fiffi
foolish attempt to sail round the island. ._. 1 ^ , ,\-,h
Here they built themselves two. handsome huts, *and xotKi
trived them in a manner like my first habitation, b#ng elpgfi
under the side of a hill, having some trees growing alre^fe
on three sides of it, so that by planting others, it would be^eflfa
easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched, iofit
They desired some dried goats'-skins, for beds and roverfPJfp
which were given them -, and upon, giving their words,;tWj
they would hot disturb the rest, or injure any of tfiqir planfj'ii
tlBns, tney gave them hatchets, and what, other . toqls''&$$
could spdre -r some peas, barley, and rice, fpr sowing ^hi^^Si
a word, any thing they wanted, except arms and ammunition
- They lived in this separate condition about six months^
dnd had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was, bt#3
small, the parcel of land they had planted being but little,; fof>
indedd, &aving all their plantation to form, they had ,a gr^afri
dealof worlc upon their hands y and whe,^ they came tp niaj^i
boards and ,pots, and such tilings, they were, qui tobut pf ;tJ%SiJ
element, and could make nothing of it -3 and(wjjienji>e rainy\\
season came op, for want of a cave in the eartlj, ,.they could, s
not^ keep their grain dry, and if was, ^'gre.at danger mi
spoiling y arid this humbled them much Tso iney4 cameJa^a.
]$Bgfcd the Spaniards to help thSm, which they very readily
?!<*} and hi four days worked a great hole in the side of the
*Wl for th^m, big enough to secure their corn and other tilings
V^rn the rain 5 but it was but a poor place, at best, compared
?*hiine, and especially as. mine was then, for the Spaniards
*te'd greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments in it.*
J. About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
j^lic took these rogues, which, together with the former vil-'
Ijtoy they had committed, brought mischief enough upon
Jjjfcrrv, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
?fce three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the
laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering:
??eir circumstances; and a whim took them, that they would
^ake a voyage to the continent, from whence the savages
Catne, and would try if they could seise upon some prisoners
a*nong the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
^m do the laborious part of their work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no
%ther: but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had'
^ther mischief in the design, or mischief in the event: and, if
«iay give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue
vVible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things
^fth the divine justice? It was certainly an apparent venge-:
*tice on their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them •
\ the state they were in; and they showed not the least
^niorse for the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as
apiece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, be-:
^fase he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what
^directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made him
a%ipple all his life, and in a place where no surgeon or
JJJedicine could be had for his cure j and what was still worse, *
tjte murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the iuten-
^tial murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterwards*
^formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in
CoJd blood, and in their sleep.
But I leave observing, and return to the story:—The three
f^tews came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very'
tumble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them: tbfe/
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which war
this :-~That they were tired of living in the manner they did % *
^d that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries
^ey wanted, and that having no help, they found they should
*oW 11; D
Tje starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave $
'take one of the canoes which they came over in, and g'^f-
them arms and ammunition proportioned to their defence, Ulfi$
would go over to the main and seek their fortunes, and so <fc*
fiver therp from the trouble of supplying them with any oth#
provisions. . ' tpi1*
"jfhe Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, 0$
Y<?ry honestly represented to them the certain destruction tfe/;
•were running imp $ told them they had suffered such hard,''
ships upqn that very spot, that they could, without any sptf$
of prophecy, tell them they would be starved, or murderefy
and bade them consider of it. X
"The,, men replied audaciously, they should be starved If t&fef
stayed here^ for they could not work, and would hot wcp/
and they could but be starved abroad; and if they were m^f?
dered, thert was an end of tlmm > they had no wives or chtwj
rcn to cry atttr them: and, In sliort, insisted importunate^
upon their demand; declaring they would go, whether ijffl
would give them any arms or no. '...? «
The Spaniards told tbem, w ith great kindness, that if uW(
were n solved to go, they should not go like naked men, ai$
be in no condition to defend themselves; and that thouM
they could ill spare theix fire-arms, having not enough *&
themselves, ye* they would let them have two muskets, a j$>*
tol and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which they though
was sufficient for them. In a word, they accepted the oteti
and having bak^ A then; bread enough to serve them a movntl$
and given them a. much goats flesh as they could <$at whp$L$
was sweet, aud a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of "fft$<
water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the cab^
for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty t$/$
broad* K.t
The boat, Jndeed, was a large one, and would veryy?$\
hgv& carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rajljjsj
too big for them to manage; but as they had a fair bree?|f
and flood tide with them, they did well enough. They j$*
wde a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large goats*-slu.W
<te\&b,,jwhich th?y had sewed or laced together $ and awajf
they wem merrily enough: the Spaniards called after the*?!?*
MonwyqJQ', amino man ever thought of seeing them, #$f
more, '' ' !\ '.*
The Spaniards were often saying to one aqotber, and to tl$
twq honest Englishmen who remained, behind* h°w .quie'flj
and comfortably they lived^ now these three turhulent (fellPwf
?W gone; as for their coming again, that was the remotest
Jr^ from their thoughts that could be imagined $ when, be-
^&» after two and twenty days absence, one of the English-
***% being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange
^en coming towards him at a distance, with guns upon their
Mulders.
- Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, domes
lightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and* tells him
:*Jey were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon
^island, but could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing!
JJ-le, says to him, " How do you mean,you cannot tell who?
i*tey are the savages to be sure."—tr No, no,** says* the
£Dglishman $ €t they are men in clothes, with arms."—
Nay then," says the Spaniard," why are you concerned? It
£*y ate not savages, they must be friends j for there is no
JJtfstian nation upon earth but will do us good rather than
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
£*d standing without the wood,*which was new planted, hoi-
ked to ifteriiY they presently knew their voices, and so all
$fc wondet of that "kind ceased. But now the admiration was
t^ned upon another question, viz. What could be the matter>
tyd what made them come back again?
ilt was not long before they brought the men in, and inqutr-
:njB Where they had been, and what they had been doing, they
|$Ve Iherri a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz.
J^t fthey reached the land in two days, or something less \
^finding the people alarmed at theit coming, and preparing
^|k& bows and arrow a to fight them, they durst not go on
pore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till
"tey came to a great opening, by which they perceived that
V** land they saw from our island was not the main, but ati
*%id; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
*s*and on the right hand, north, and several more west j and
r^tJg resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the
gkftda which lay west, and went boldly on shore: that they
^M the people very courteous and friendly to them; and
Jw they gave them several roots and some dried fish, and ap*
f^ed very sociable; and the women, as well as the men,
*ere very forward to supply them with any thing they cotdd
$£t fpr them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon
wir heads.
I Thepr continued here four days; and inquired, as well fit
tkey could of them, by sijns, what
what nations were this way,
and that way; and were told of several fierce and terrifa^
people that lived almost every way, who, as they made knoW"
by signs to them, used to eat men; but as for themselves
they said, they never eat men or women, except only such $
they took in the wars j and then, they owned, they made *
great feast, an^ ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of th^
Icind j and they told them about two moons ago, pointing *&
the mooh, and to two fingers; and that their great king h%
two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his wa&
and they were feeding them to make them fat for the ne*|j
-feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing
those prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought th<$
were debirous to, have some of them to carry away for tWt
own eating y so they beckoned to ihem, pointing to the setting
of the sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify, th4
the next morning at sun-rising they would bring some ty
them; and accordingly, the next morning, they brought doW**
iive women and eleven men,,and gave them to the English*;
men, to carry with them on their voyage, just as we woiil*}
bring so many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town &>
•victual a .hip. ."
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were' at honi^
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did'not knov^,
what to do. To refuse the prisoners would have been th^
highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered thefli;
and what to do with them they knew not. However,' a&^
-some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and, in return*
they gave the savages that brought them one of their hatchets,,
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets) whicH>,
though they did not understand their use, they seeme*}
particularly pleased with; and then tying the poor creatures'
iahds behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the bo^
for our men. ..,
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as the#?
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present
wnild certainly have expected that they should have gone td
*vork with them, have killed two or three of them the hex*
morning, and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. B?t,
having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks tftd*
could well pass between people, where, on either side, the$,
understood not one word they could say, they put off with theit,
boat, and came back towards the first island, where, wfceS'
jw arrived, they set efght of their prisoners at liberty, there
^JHg too many of them for their occasion.
, Jn their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communi-
Jjj*101* with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make
^tt* understand any thing; nothing they could say to them,
^ give them, or do for them, but was looked upon as g» ing
-Murder them. They first of all unbound them j but thfc
*£*°r creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if
Te7 had just felt tfie knife at their throats j for they immedi-
»^y concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
J'-tfey gave them any thing to eat, it was the same thing;
?ey then concluded, it was for tear they should sink in flesh,
jW so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of
:** e*n more particularly, the party presently concluded, it was
°.see whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first:
Ijty> after they had brought them quite over, and began to use
pem kindly, and treat them well, still they expected every day
** ttiake a dinner or supper for their new masters.
. When the three wanderers had given this unaccountably
<!*tory or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them
$iere their new family was; and being told that they had
bought them on shore, and put them into one of their huts,
*&d were come up to beg some victuals for them, they (the
^Pariiards)' and the other two Englishmen, that is to say, the
J**?le colony, resolved to go all down to the place and see
.Sfrj; and did so, and Friday's father with them.
;.When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound;
j^f when they had brought them on shore, they bound their
^s* that they might not take the boat and make their es-
2|P?* there, I say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First;
Jj^re were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well sharped,
pight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age';
M* five women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty;j
^o more not above four or five and twenty; and the fifth* k
_$M,comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women
J^re well favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape and fea-
JJ^s, only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect.
3?ite, would have passed for very handsome women, even in
T^on itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of
fa vsry modest behaviour; especially when they came after*
rds to be clothed and dressed, as they called it, though that
w 8s was very indifferent, it must be confessed: of which
l«te*fter. . \
*3te sight, you may be sure> was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, t&&'
the best beluyiour, of the most calm/ sedate tempers, and f&f
feci good-humour, that ever I met with j and, in particuW
of the most modesty, as will presently appear: I say, the sigjjj
was very uncouth, to see three naked men and five n*k^
women, all together bound, and in the most miserable circ*1^
stances that human nature could be supposed to be, vis. to ™
expecting eveiy moment to be dragged out, and have ^
brains knocked out, and then to be eaten tip like a calf thfi*^
killed for a dainty. \
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Fri&JP.
father, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, &
then if he understood any of their speech. As soon as v*
old man came in, he looked seriously at them, butlcriew 0^
of them j neither could any of them understand a word ^
*aid, or a sign he could make, except one of the wor*#fl'
However, this waa enough to answer the end, which *w^
satisfy them that the men into whose hauds they wwfcj^)
were Christians j that they abhorred eating men or wom&^
and that they might be sure they would not be killed. As sof J
flsihey were assured of this, they discovered such a joy, an4'W
such, aukward gestures, several ways, as is hard ta describe
for, it seems, they were of several nations. t
The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in* the *>**
place* to ask them if they were willing to be servants, mi?
work for the men who had brought them away, to savelh^
lives; at which they all fell a dancing j and presently-one^ j
to taking up this, and another that, any thing that lay ****'
to carry on their shoulders, to imitate that they were wWw
to work. *
The governor, who found that the having women anions
them would presently be attended with some inconvenien^'
and might occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked tnj
three men what they intended to do with these women, fn
how they intended to use them, whether as servants <?f *?
women? One of the Englishmen auswered very boldly ^
readily, that they would use them as both; to which the fP
vernpr said, J am not going to restrain you from it; you•***
your own masters as to that? but this I think is but just>/%
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire U °
you for that reason only, viz. That you will all engage, tb?
if any of you take any of these women, as a woman or wW*>
that he shall take but one j and that having taken one, 0^
else dial! touch her j for though we csmri** marry .any di» <*
55
Jtniy yet it it but reasonable that while you stay here, the wo-
>!*a&'any of you takes should-be maintained by the man that
'&kes her, and should be his wife* I mean, says he, whuVhfc
Jontinue* here, and that none else shall have any thing to do
4 ^th her. All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to
^-without any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed
vto take any of them? But every one of them answered no:
4 Some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did
, ftot like women that were not Christians: and all together de*
feared that they would not touch one of them; which was att
^stance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my tra-
ils. On the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen
lt>ok them every one a wife, that is to say, a temporary wife;
*ad so they set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and
Friday's ;father lived in niy old habitation, which they had en-
larged exceedingly within; The three servants which were
^keo in*the late battle of the savages lived with them; and
&Siie-carried on ihe main part of the colony, supplied all the
**t with food, and assisted them in any .-thing as they could>
•oj as they.fonnd necessity required;
< But* the wonder of this story was, how five $ueh refractory,
ill-matched fellows, should agree about these women, and that
too/of them should not pitch upon the same woman, espe- ,
<&*Hy seeing two or three of them were, without comparison,
,*Hoi©.agreeable than the others: But they took a good-way
*tlougte to prevent quarrelling among themselves** for they set
<:"toe five women by themselves in one of their huts, and they
went all into the other hut, and drew lots among them who
%hould choose first*
'' He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hut
*here the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out he* he
chose; and it was worth observing, that he that chose first
took her that was reckoned the homeliest and oldest^of*the
*ve, which made mirth enough among the rest 5 and?evea the
* Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow considered better than
*»iy of them, that it was application and business they were to
ftXpect assistance in, as much as in an. thing else 5 and she,
h Troved the best wife of ail the parcel. « .< v
When the poor women saw themselves setin a row thus*,
ftnd fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition re*
turned upon them again, and they-firmly believed»they were
4 ftow going to be devoured. Accordingly, whe^i the English
: sailor .came ia and fetched out one of them, the rest set -up a
3£ AJXVJSJNTUBB* 0*
>mQ$t lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their lea**
M«her with? such agonies and affection, as would have grie**4
-|he hardest iieart in the world; nor;was it possible; foe tb*
JJnglisJhtmen to satisfy then* that they were not to be ironied^
fctely murdered, till they fetched the old man, Fridays fathaft
who immediately let, them know that the five men, whoh#»
fejehed them outonecby one; had chosen thera for their mv&'
t ^Wjen they had done, and the fright the women wereji"
was ft;: littler over* the-men went to work, und ;the Spaniard
cajuftf^nd helped them; and in a few houra they had bui^
,them every one a new hut or, tent for their lodging apart: 6*
those, they had already were crowded widi their tools, houses'
hold stuff, and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched
farthest of, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on th*
;jiorth shore of the island, so that they continued separated &
.before: and thus my island,was peopled in three places -, and*
m I might sayj three towns were hegun to be built*. .< ,•
And here it is very well worth observing, that* as it oft^
happens in the world, (what the wise ends of God's provident
are in such a disposition of things, I cannot say,) the two bd*
nest fellow^ had the two worst wives j and the three repro*
h»te.sy that were scarce worth hanging, that were fit &r
nothing* and neither seemed.born to do themselves good* &
%ny one ejsjs, hadrthjree clever, diligent, careful and ingenious
^vives i .npti that the two^first were bad wives, as'te* theirrteni*
fjer pr humour, for<all the five were most willing, quiet, pas*
aive and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives $>Jat*t
1*$! meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, ror hi'
d«strio|w, or alike cleanly and neat, ,:: M
Another observation I must make, to the honour, of ladilif
gent application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a .sloth*
ful, negligent, idle temper, on the other, that when JL can**
ta the pjace, and .viewed the several improvements * planting*/
and inanagement of the several little colonies* the; two ^rnetf
had,so,far out-gone the, three, that there was no comparison
They had, indeed, both of them as much ground laid out for
<?prn as ^hey wanted, and the reason was, because,^ according
t&i&y'jwbe* nature dictated that it was; tp no purpose, to nojtf
more com than they wanted?-but the.different of the cujti*
vatior^-o^theplanting, of the^ fences, and,iindeed, of rwetp
thing else, was easy to be seen<at first view.* ;<,.i,*r.ri '','h
.; #jhe two men had^innun^rabje ypung? trees planted'about
Aeir, huts, so that. w)ien,you/cai»e, tp #& pja^>i,n/?tiiing was to
^seen but a wood:- and though they had twice had thetr
Wantation demolished, once by their own countrymen, arid
*tf>ce by the enemy, as shall be> shown in its place, yet they
**ad restored all again, and every thing was thriving ana*
Nourishing about them: they had grape^hihtedittorderi and
**tonaged like a vineyard, though they had themselves never
^en any thing of that kind; and by their good ordering their
**nes, their grapes were as good again as any of the dthers;
^key Jiad also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest
Part of the woods; where, though there was not a natural
^ave, a* I had found, yet they made one with incessant labour
°£ their hands, and where, when the mischief which followed
happened, they secured their wives and children, so as they
**>uld never be found; they having> by sticking innumerable
**akes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so readily,
*&ade the grove unpassable, except in some places where they
Wimbled up to get oVer the outside part, and then went on by
^ys of their own- leaving.
 »rAs to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though^
they were much civilized by their settlement corripared to
^hat they were before, and were hot so quarrelsome, having
tot the same opportunity; yet one of the certain companions
of a profligate mind never left them, and that was their idle-
rs. It is true, they planted corn, and made fences; but
Solomon's words were never better verified than in them, " I
*ent by the vineyard of the slothful, and" it was allovergrownr
^ith thorns 5" for when the Spaniards came to view /theif
crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds j the
hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in
and^eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead bush
*as crammed in, to stop them out for the present, but it
^as only shutting the stable-door after the steed was stolen r
whereas, when they looked on the colony of the other two>
there was the very face of industry and success upot* alfr>tHey
did * there was not a weed to be seen in all their edrn, or-a
§ap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other hatfd, veti-
fied Solomon's words in another place, " that the dfli^nfhatid
^aketh ricif 5" for every thing grew and thrived; and'they had
Plenty within and-without; they had more tame cattle ^anf,
the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, andUyet
*fiore pleasure and-diversion too.- /
'It is true, the wives of the three were very hand? ai^-
$fein\fwithin doors, and having learned the EngTfcftwaytf <>f
dresslng^and cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who,'
D2
$8 *»VW»T««£S,PJP
as J w$tWiacof>F*-Mteon board the ship, theyjdm&tA
Jte.r husbands, victuals very nicely m<\ well; whereas tfc
others.cpuld not be bright to, understand it •' buMhen.&
,husband, who,/as Ijay, had been cooks-mate, did i| binw#
fejchedturtles eggs, ?nd caught fish and birds; inawonLatf
Ihnig but labpur^.snd, they fared accordingly. Tie Ma^1
hved.wel] and comfortably; and the slothful lived hard W
beggarly i and so, J believe, generally.,peaking, it is all ov*
the wor)d.'
But I now come to a scene diiferent from all that had hap-
pened before, either to them or to me; and the original^
Jhe story was this: Early one morning, there came on shore
Sve or six canoes of Indians.or savages, call them which yo"
please,, and there is no room to doubt they camcupon the#
errand.of feeing upon their slaves; but that part, was nowjio
familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that the* did
not concern themselves about it, as I did: tut havWbeeP
made senile, by their experience, .tbat their,only ^bwnpss
was to he concealed, and that if they were not.seenbyi anyX>£
the savages, they would go off again quietly, when their busi-
ness was done, having, as yet, not th* least notioa of Were
neAoj; any inhabitants in the Island; I. say,, having ibew made
sensible of-th«, ihey had. nothing.^ do W 2£Sl
the threerpIantatjonS to keep wit&j-Wrs, anS^Sem-
selves, only placing a scout in a proper place, tp give notice
wljen the boats went to sea again. "..',-
^Thi»,was, without doubt, very right,, but a disaster «t£il*d
W these measures, and made it known among the saVaHes that
there were inhabitants there; which was,, in the end, the des«-
™«f °St tk;h;le,.c,ll"1>' After tb° wpoe* with,the
savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again,} and
had teen, to see wW.they had been doing. Herejo *hejr
grea,t surprise, they found three savages left behind, aud jaring
.&s*,asfeep upon the ground, It was supposed, the*had #iW
beeflJpgorged warn their inhuman feast, that, ijksteS*"Ly
?* jhey.bad wandered into the woods,and did,npt eorr^back
HMime, tp, te taken in. ,, , , „ . -
The- Spaniards were greatly surprised at this!'sight, *id
petfecfry at a ioss. what to do, The Spanish gpWnorJas
jt happened, wasr,w}th them, wdrh;,M4v^a^kedj;b"t
he CToi^sed^e^ew^not.what ,«,« dp.. ,;4» ^.slaves,;,they
!|f*1&ongn afreadyj'andis1 to kiinng A0,y^f^feh^
:<J them inclined to that':^^ t%,
jWfccfotld not think of sheddingmn^fii feibci!;V for &J'to
Whi^ the poor creatures had dope theifaw w^otig, invaded
v?bne of their property, atid thejr fto^t'tHtev.!k<| nb just'
;$aatrel against them, to take away th&ir'tives. ;Atid herdt
, feist; in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that 1^4 the a&-
frits'of Spanisji cruelty in Mexico and Peril be what th«jy
will;11 never met with seventeen men of any nation what-
soever, in any foreign country, who were so universally motet,
^femperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and so courteous,
3s thesis 'Spaniards j and as to cruelty, they had xuithm&tif it' m'
ft&r Very nature: no inhumanity, rib barbarity, no oiitrageotfs
passions j and yet all of them men of great cdurage arid
ipiriti ' Their temper and calmness had append in their
tearing thq ihsufterable usage of the three Englishmen; arid
^heTr^justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the
;f&tagfe#,• &s: above. After some consulfcitiott, they resolved ut>-
''*»h ttris y that they would lie still a while longer, till, if ppSsi-
hte,1 these' three feeri might be gone. But then the gbvehtot
Sfrniterfl'recoitecfed,1 ^at tne threesaVages had no boat) and
;if 'ihef r#eJre?fert:;to rOve about'the island, they ivould certainly
Sfecbver^btit there were inhabitants in it -y and so they shbiild
'fee Vmdone that way. Upon this they wei* back agaftt, and
there lay the fellows fast asleep still : aud so they reserved to
%aken them, and take them prisoriefs j and they did ib.
k The poor fellows were strangefy frightened* when tfiey; wife
1;§i\i&& fcpot* and Bound; and afraid, like the wBmeh, tftat tbfey
^fibuld'oe^hiurdered and eaten: for it sefems, thos^jieopite
HiTfikAafl tM \rorld1 does as they 66, eating meri's flesh; but
?fe^|Wen* sbon made easy as to that, andaway they cfcittted
°flteni::-v • '*'' .'  '' f-""-'
v"fftwasVefry happy for thert) that they aid not catty"t&£Hi
'toSme^Wttiefr castle; I mean to rhy palafce under'th^hltt £ftuit
ihty carried them nrst to" the bowfef, wher£ ^aV'tftci;eWF bf
*hKr countryVork, such as the keeping the g&ttf,' the plaint-
'tog thfe cbrnY kc.; and afterward* they carried theta to ftle
^^taVtdn'offHe twoEnglishmen: '" r
*'J*4ltef^ey Vtfrettrt towork, though' if ttf& nofmpch tfiey had
for them to do j and whether it was bf tie^gence in goard-
*'ihg ilihnf, rn^hie tfc'ey thought ft$ fe}lo%s could npr^mend
'*bem$Wt£syI fchcto'noV, hut orie if tneni ran away; ana1 taking
5W UftPwwds,v'they could; never heat1 of Him any tfftit '"'" \
'^rttl)ey hard good reason to bfeliSve hev got * hdmfe vagaiiv soon
£0 JJ>Y*HTVHRS,0,*
after,Jn $ome other boats or canoes of savages who came °*
shore three or four weeks afterwards j ,and who, carrying on*
their revels as usual, went off in two days time. This thought
terrified them exceedingly j for they concluded, and that not
without good cause indeed, that if this fellow came home safe
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an account
that tJaer^e were, people in the island, and also how few and
weak they were; for tliis savage, as I observed before* had
never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how many
there were, or where they lived j nor had he ever seen of
heard the fire of any of their guns, much less had they shown
him any of their other retired places; such as the cave in tbe
valley, or the new retreat which, the two Englishmen had
made, and the like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given in**
telltgence of them was, that about two months after this,, si*
canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men in a
canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island, where
they never used to come before, and landed* about an hour
after sun-rise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the
habitation of, the two Englishmen^ where this escaped man
had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not
a man of them would ha^e escaped; but the case diifere<& now
very much, ,for two,men to fifty was top muchodds,! The
tvvo men had the happiness to discover them about a league
off,.so that it was above an hour before they landed,; and^as
they landed a rnile from their huts, it was some time before
they could pome at them. Now* having great reason, to pe-t
lieve that they were betrayed, the first thing they jjid waa to
bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the
three men whom they brought with the women (who it .seem*
proved very faithful to them) to lead them,f with, iheyj two
wives* and whatever they could carry away with them, tp their
retired places in the woods, which I have spoken o£, above*
and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till tp&J
heard farthers!
In'the next place, seeing the savages were all come qn sfeofe*
and that they had bent their course directly, that way, they
opened the fences where the milch-gpats were kept*, an4 d»*o,v£
them all out j, leaving their goats to, straggle in., the.wopd**
whither they pleasedf, that the savages might think th$y~ were*
all bred wild \ but the rogue^ who pame with -then* wa$,.toi*
cunning for that, and gave thenx an account of, it-a}l, fpr Jhey
went directly to the place.
-When the two poor frightened men had sectored theft wive*
^ goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who'
^^np with the women, and who was at their place by accident,
a**ay to the Spaniards with all speed, togive-them the alarm,
*Qd desire speedy help $ and, in the mean time, they took their
^*Hsr and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards
^e place in the wood where their wives Were sent; keeping
*t* distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which
*9y*the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they
^d see the little army of their enemies come on directly to
F^fe habitation* and in a moment more, could see all their
^ts aiid household stuff flaming up together, to their great
?r,ef and mortification; for they had a very great loss,, to them*
Retrievable, at least for some time. They kept their station
or a while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread
^mselves all Over the place, rummaging every way, and every
Wace^ihey could think of, in search of prey; and in particular
?°* the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared, they had
diligence.
'The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselres not
&ecare wbere^they stood, because it was likely some of the
Mid people might come that way, and they might come too
^atiy together, thought it proper to make another retreat about
Jj^ifa mile farther: believing, as it afterwards happened, that
^•farther they strolled, the fewer would be together.
^Eheir next -halt was at the entrance into a very thick grown
&&<$the* woods, and where an old trunk of a' tcee stood,
^kick was hollow and vastly large j and in this tree they both
l^k their standing, resolving to see there what might offer,
^tayhad not stood there long, before twb of the savages ap-
peared running directly that way, as if they already had notice
piere* they-stood, and were coming up to attack them 5 and a
lUte.iway-farther they espied three more coming after them,
^d^jve^more beyond them, all coming the same way%. besides
'Mchv they saw seven or eight more at a distance* Binning
Mother way; for, in a word, they ran every way,, like sports-*
Unhealing for their game.
The poor men were now in- great perplexity whether the)r
*j^ld *tsind and keep their posture, or fly > but, after a very
korfc' debate with ^themselves, they considered, that if the
^yag<&-ranged the country thus before help came, they wight
{^rtttspsfind out their retreat in the woods, and then allwould
°* k&$ '*> tthey rescued *o stand theni there j and if they
were too many to deal with, then they would get up ta &e
top of the tree, from whence they doubted not-co'defend the****
selves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, ttoug*1
all the savage* that were landed, which was near fifty, W«#
to attack them. -;
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whei^r
they should fire at the nrsi two, or wait for the three, and'$>
take the middle party, by which the two and the five-that t®"
lowed would be sepanti d; at length they resolved to Jet *^
first two pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree* a1**
come to attack them. The two first savages confirmed th^
also in this regulation, by turning a little from them tow^s
another part of the wood; but the three, and the five aft#
them, came forward directly to the tree, as if they had kno*n
the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come so strait
toward them, they resolved to take them in a line as tft^f
came j and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps* t^
first shot might hit vhein all three: tor which purposes the ft***1
who was to fire put three or four <*mall bullets* into his pietf^
and having a fair loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole j*j
the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen* waiting til1
they were within about thirty yards of the tree, to thai'&
could not misfc. J - j. *
While they were thus-waiting, and the garagesjeatftCPony tWf
plainly saw that one of the three wos the runaway savage tW
had escaped from them; and they borh knew him distinctly >
and resolved that, if possible, he should not escape* thotH?1
they should both fire; so the other stood ready with hi^pie^
that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should btftftfre&
have a second. But the first was too good a markstf&ft &
miss bU aim ,* for at the savages kept near one another,^ $0
babind, in a line, he fired, and hit two of thern diretftiy tr&&
foremost was kilted outright, being shot in the feeattj.*th#^
cond, which was the runaway Indian, wa# stool thrfltfgh $*
body, and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third featf'*
little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ba& th#
went through the body of the second; and bejng:4d&$$8$f
frightened, though not so- much hurt, sat down 'Updft ^6^
ground, Screaming and yelling in a hideous manner*
The five that were behind, more frightened ivith the >v0*
than sensible of the danger, stood utitt at first; f«*>*h# <M&$
made the sound a thousand times'bigger than ft *t»fly :vfcis/-**
ekhoes titling from one #de ^another, au# the fow4«ifft5*rt|
ffpttiiolj parts, fectearhing, ahdttwpy/«drt;ma%frtg & dtfftifci**
lUDBmsON-CHUSaE. tfS
^ise, accorttfng to their kind; just as it waa when I fired the
first gun that perhaps was ever shot off in the island*
^However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what
**W matter was, came on unconcerned, till: they came to the
P'ace where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
^caigh; an4 here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
^t they were within reach of the same mischief, stood all of
^huddle over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup-
ped, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt j and who, it
** Very rational to believe, told them, that a flash of fire first,
^immediately after that thunder from their gods, had killed
those two and wounded him; this, I say, is rational; for nothing
** more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so
**>ey had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as
heard of a gun 5 Neither knew they any thing of killing and
bounding at a distance with lire and bullets: if they had, one
^ight reasonably believe they would not have stood so uncon-
<*rned in viewing the fate of .their fellows, without some ap-
l*ebensk>ns of their own. • m .
"Our two meDy,though, as they confessed to me.it grieved
ftem to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the
*ame time, had no notion of their danger; yeiy having them
all thus in their power, and the first having loaded his piece
*jgain, resolved to let fly both together among them 5 and
Ogling out, by agreement, which to aim at, they shot together,
*&d killed, or very much wounded, four of them j the fifth,
(%htened even to death, though not hort, fett with the r<kt»,
^ that our men seeing them all fall together* thotogbt they
Skilled them all.
*» Tfee belief that the savage* were all kilted made ovir two
*%ia«corne boldly out from the tree before they had charged
ttteir gunsi which was a wrong step 5 and they were under
^>me; surprise when they came to the place, and found no
''&fs rthanibur of them alive, and of them two very Kttle hurt,
;Pifd;fjne^ndt at all.- this obliged them to fall upon; them with
'% stocks of their muskets? and first they made* sure of the
^Jiflway savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief,
^tW of anotberahat was hurt in the knee, &nd,'fwt them out
of their pain: then the man that was hurt.-not- at all came,
^W,krj0eled down to them, with his two hands held up* -"ita*
A>^pUeotV moans to them, ,by gestures «M*,sign$, .far-fife
JJfe, but could not say oliei wor<t to them thatthey epaJd un~
$erstano\ ; H[pwe,yer, they njade signs to him to sit downnaft
&fcfpot ofaAree hard by 5i ^adfpne of the Englishmen, with*!
$* AJBVEUTtfRJRS OF
piece of rope twined, which lie had by great chance ia-"h*
pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there they J«#
him; and with what speed they could made after the othe*
two, which were gone before, tearing they, or any more *»
them, should find the way to their covered place in the wood&>
where their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. Thef
came once in sight of the two men, but it; was at a great difc*
tance; however, they had the satisfaction to see them cro&
over a valley towards the sea, quite the contrary way from that
which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of j #**
being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where
they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was deliver^*
by his comrades, for he was gone, and the two pieces of rop#*
yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the foot <*
the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as before, not knotf*
ing what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, Qt
in what numbers; so they resolved to go away to the place
where their wives were, to see if ail was well there, and &
make them easy, who were in fright enough to be sure; (&
though the savages were their own country-folk, yet the/
were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more 6*
the knowledge they had of them.
When they came there, they found the savages had been &
the wood, and very near that place, but had »ot found it $ f&
it was indeed inaccessible, by the trees standing so*thick, a*
before, unless the persons seeking it had been directed by thos$
that knew it, which these did not: they found, therefore, evetf
thing very safe, only the womea in a terrible fright White
they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the
Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten, with their
servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, where goW
in a body to-defend their bower, and the corn and cattle tha*
was kept there,, in case the savages should have roved oV3f
to that side of the country; but they did not spread so f#»
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages wh^>
as I said, were their prisoners formerly: ami with them fl^-
came the savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand
and foot at the tree* for, it seems, they came that way, sa^
the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, an4
brought him along with them; where, however, they wP*
obliged to bind him again, as they had the two others wbp
were left when the third,ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burthen to them$; a&4
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they were once re-
HOBINSOW C*t7SO£. 6&
^iog to'kitt them all, believing they;were under a~n absolute
^fesaity to-do so, for their own preservation. However, the
^Nniard governor would not consent to it; .but ordered, for
^"present, that they should be sent out of the way, to my
j*4;<Save m the valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards
^guard them, and give them food for theirsubsistence, which
^ done: and they were bound there hand and foot for that
Jttt >
f'Whenthe Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so
^couraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any
?fcger there j but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves,
*fth four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout
Jpfcrter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages. And
jfrst they came to the tree where the men Jay that had been
J^Ued; but it was easy to see that some more of the savages
*ad been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men
?^ay, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given
it over. From thence they advanced to the first rising ground,
^here they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where
^y had the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
^fcither could'th^y« here see any of the savages. They then
^solved/-though-with all- possible caution, to go forward, to-
wards their ruined plantation; but a little before they came
thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore^ they saw plainly the
Images all embarked again in their canoes, in order to begone.
*&ey seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way to come at
***tem, to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they
^esrevery well satisfied to be rid of them.
,c The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
^proveraents destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help
S>fcm 'to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies.
*heir three countrymen, who were not yet noted for having
**te least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as they heard
^ it> (for they living remote eastward, knew nothing of the
; ^ttet till all was over,) came and offered their help and'assist-
*Jtee, ancj did^ very friendly, work for several days, to restore
r^ir habitation, and make necessaries for thgrn. And thus*
•&'* liitie timia, they were set upon their legs again.
;* About' two days after this,-they had the farther satisfaction
°£ seeing three of the savages canoes come driving on shoroy
^/vat sonie distance fromthemy *wo drowned men: by which
"^y had reason to-believe that tb^y had met with a storm at
#*, which had overset some, of thenn for it had -blown very
*W tha night jifter thqy went off.
, ^However, as some might miscarry, ao, oh the other iraiw
enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of*******
they bad done as of what had happened to them,, end to wb*;
them on to another enterprise of the same nature; which they*
it seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient: force to carry $
before them: for except what the first man had told thefl* &
inhabitants, they could say little of.it of their own knowledge
for they never saw one man; and the fellow being killed*b*1
had affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm it ^
them. * v *
. It was five or six months after tins before they heard'*$
more of the savages, in which time our men were in hop*5
they had either forgot their former bad luck, or given 0^
hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were invaded w***1
a most formidable fleet of no less than eight and*twenty cano^'
full4 of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clflb8'
wooden swords, and such like engines of war; and they broug^
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our peop^
into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the eastern^
tide of die island, our men had that night to consult and W**
sider what to do; and, in the first place, knowing that th#*
being entirely concealed was their only safety before, «***
would be much more so now, while the number of their et^*
mies was so great, they therefore resolved, first of all, to ta$
down the huts which were bnilt for the two Englishmen, $&
drive away their goats to the old cave; because they sUppos#*
the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was dtfy, i0
play the old game over again, though they did not now M^o
within two leagues of it. In the next place/they drove &*$¥
all the flock of goats they had at the old bower, as I called &
which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as M»e
appearance of inhabitants any where as wa* possible1: and *fi€
next morning early they posted themselves, with all the»f
force, at the plantation of the two men, to wait for their corrii*®'
As they guessed, so it happened: these new invaders leaVth?
their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging ak*#5
the shore, directly towards the place, to the number of 't&°
hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our'atitfy
was but small, indeed; but that which was worse, tbeiHtfd
not arms for all their number neither. The whole accolint, ft
seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards', fi^
Englishmen, old*Friday, or Friday's father, the4 three* slaves W-
ken with the women, who proved very faithfuli and thrtje' othe*
€f
*»ves, who lived with the Spaniards. . To arm these, they had
sfeven muskets, five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muskets
J<* fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from the mutinous
<**amen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old halberds.
!' To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuzee,
Wt they had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarter-
**aff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it,
:*ad by his side a hatchet j also every one of our men had a
-Ratchet, Two of the women could not be prevailed upon but
*ey would come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows,
>hich the Spaniards had taken from the savages when the
first action, happened, which I have spoken of, where the- In-
dians fought with one another; and the women had hatchets-
The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, com*
landed the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dread-
ful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, com-
manded under hun. The savages came forward like lions j
and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no advan-
tage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved
ft most,useful fellow, with six men, was planted just he-
boid a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with
'Orders to let the first of them pass by, and then fire lntothe
toiddle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his; re-
treat as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so
^Pme in behind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a
ticket of trees before them,;
1 When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every
*ay in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let
*hout fifty of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in
3 voiy thick throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having
^ded their muskets with six or seven bullets a-piece, about
3s big as large pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded
^ey knew not, but the consternation and surprise was inex-
pressible among the savages; they were frightened to the last
degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed,
and others hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in the mid-
<*Je of their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fly again
mnpng the thickest of them; and in less than, a minute the
*fim three, being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
* <*|ad Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon
a* they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest
°f the body been at hand, to have poured in their shot con-
tinually,: the savage* had been effectually routed j for the ter-
68 ADVBNTUfcj&S; OP"
ror^hat was among them came principally from this, viz/ &*•
they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, an«
could see nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins, staying ^
load again, discovered the cheat: some of the savages vfa°
were at a distance spying them> came upon them behind f
and though Atkins and his men fired at them also, two °f'
three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as tbff
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one- ofh&
fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterward*
one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with tb#
women. This slave was a most gallant fellow, and fougb*
most desperately, killing five of them with his own han&
having no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet-
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and tW<>
other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood*
and the Spaniards, after firing three vollies upon them, retread
ed also $ for their number was so great* and they were so de*
gperate, that though above fifty of them were killed, and mort
than as many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of oPf'
men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a clouds
and itj was observed that their wounded men, wiic*,were not
quite disabled, were made outrageous by their , wounds, an^1
fought like madmen.. ^
When our-men retreated, they left the Spaniard and th^
Englishman. that was killed behind them j and the savagesV,
when they came up to them, killed them over again in*^;
wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs and heads, with1,
their clubs and;wooden swords, like true savages j but finding51
our, men were-gone, they did not seem to pursue them, btit'
drew themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their cus<*v
torn, and shouted twice, in token of their victory; after'
which, they had the mortification to see several of, tbeif^
wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood. &*
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body, up-to-
gether upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded*t!
wou!4 have had them; march and charge again altogether atiC
onoo.:. but the Spaniard replied, " Seignior Atkins, you see.ho*?fr
theurrwounded men fight, let them alone till morning; att th#l)
wo^uncjed men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, an#*
faint with the loss of-blood j.and so we shall have the, fe^0*)!
to engage." This advice was good j but Will Atkins replied*
merrily, " That is true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and tha*;
is the reason I would go on,while I am warm/W We&e
Seignior Atkins/' aavs.the SpanifioV" yPV* have bshayedig^
?**%» and done your part; we will fight for you, if yoti can-
stcome on \ but I think it best to stay till morning :'* so
^X waited.
^ But as it was a clear moon-light night* and they found the
T^ages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men,
^ a great noise and hurry among them where they lay> they
forwards resolved to fall upon them in the night j especially*
* (thfcy could come to give them but one volley before they
?*fe discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to doj
j^-tme of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where
/Je fight began, led them round between the woods and the-
/**side westward, and then turning short south, they came
^tiearwhere the thickest of them lay, that, before they were?
^v or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did
teadful executiou upon them; in half a minute more, eight
"fcrs fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a
J£antity, that abundance were killed and wounded; and all
;% while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which*
*a* tony. -' > .
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition^
^ then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to
JJWin among them altogether. They had in each body eight'
P^sons, that is to say, twenty-two men, and the two women,:
Ho, by the way, fought desperately. They divided the fire-
5j&s equally in each party, and so the halberds and staves.-
hey would have had the women kept back, but they said
fcfcy were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thtis;
°fnoed their little army, they marched out from among the:
^h and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and;
blowing as loud as they could: the savages stood all
^ther, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise
J our men shouting from three quarters together: they'
°uld have fought if they had seen us; for as soon as we
j*1^ near enough to be seen, some arrows were shot, and
£°0r old Friday was wounded, though not dangerously; but;
*** men gave them no time, but running up to them, fired
^°ftg them three ways, and then fell in with the but-ends
^their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets,
5*** laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a
^*mal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives
«ich,way soever1 they could.
. .pur men were tired with the execution, and killed or tnor-
^rwbunded in the two fights about 180 of them; the rest
0s*&g* frightened out of their whs, scoured through the woodte
and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble ^
could help them to do -, and as we did not trouble oursely^
much to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-si4*
where they landed, and where their canoes lay. But the**
disaster was not at an end yet \ for it blew a terrible storm. $
wind that evening from the sea, so that it was impossible ffi
them to go off | nay, the storm continuing all night, when tW'
tide came up, their canoes were most of them driven by 4*
surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it required i#*
finite toil to get them off} and some of them were even dasfc*
ed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.'
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little t&*
that night -, but having refreshed themselves as well as th#
could, they resolved to march to that part of the island whe#
the savages were fled, and see what posture they were *Pj
This necessarily led them over the place where the fight t&r
been, and where they found several of the poor creatures fl0
quite dead, and yet past recovering life; a sight disagreeab^
enough to generous minds; for a truly great man, though
qbliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no<J#
light in his misery. However, there was no need to give 3*# J
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were ^flrf
servants, dispatched these poor creatures with their liatcheW
At length, they came in view of the place where th$ na##
miserable remains of the savages army lay, where there apT1
peared about an hundred still: their posture was general^
sitting upon the ground, with their knees up towards tp$'
mouth, and the head put between the two hands, rleanMtf7
down upon the knees* ,., .[r>^
When our men came within two musket-shots^of tl)em, tftf1
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired,, witM**'
ball, ta alarm them: this he did, that hy their counte«an$
hC might know what to expect, viz. whether they were ,tfjj
in. heart to fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be disptfi^T'
-and discouraged, and *o he might manage accordingly. .TW1
stratagem took j for as soon as the savages heard the first ff$]
and saw the flash of the second, they started up upon th^
feet in the greatest consternation imaginable: and as our ni#
advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming #D™
yelling away* with a kind of howling noise, which ,oui me#5
did not understand, and had never heard before} and t»**'
they run up the hills into the country.;
At first our men bad much rather the weather had betfj;
xalm^and they had all gone away to, sea* hot thqr did &fc
^ctoiisMe* that thW might probably have'Men the c£cas?drt
*neir'coming again in sudh multitudes as trot td be resisted,
*^Heast; to come" so many,aand so often- ' as wbMi quite
^late the island, and -starve them. Will Atkins, therefore,
/^°i notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them,
?^ved the best counsellor in this case: his advice wj*s to takfc
??advantage that* offered, and clap in between them and
?*^r boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever re*
!?ing any more *° p^gue the island.
c *hey consulted long about this $ and some were against it,
2* fear of making the wretches fly to the woods arrd live
^re desperate, and so they should have them to Hunt like
lJ^ beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and
^ their plantation continually rifled, ail their tame goats
£*troyed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual di-
s^ss. ,"
i''Will Atkins told them they ha<l better have to do with an
J^dred men than with an hundred nations: that as they
/Jj4^ destroy their boats, so they must destroy the meri, or be*
Jj^of'the'm destroyed themselves. In a wrird; he showed thetrt
jj^rtecessiiyof it so plainly, that thev all came into it; so
^y went to work Immediately with the boats, and getting*
^he'drj' woort together from a dead tree, 'they? tried to^set
^e of them on fife, but they were so wet that they would
^ti:burn; however, the fire so burhed the upper part, th*t it
^^rriade them unfit for swimming in the uea^as boats'J
T^eh ine Indians s;iw-what they were about, some of thenV
^e^rtinnmg out of the woods, and comin? as near as ihey*
Jjjtfd to our men, kneeled down and cried, *' bi»t Oa, Warnm-
?^t'vandfcome other words of their language; which none of
pothers understood any thing of; but as they made pitiful
glares and strange noises, it was easy to understand they^
I^Sed to have their boats spared, and that the j would be gone/
^ never come there again. But our men were now satf^fiecf
5^**hey had no way to preserve themselves, or to snve their
~r*%V but effectually to prevent any of these people from
J^igolng home again: depending upon this, that if even so
T^Jft as one of them got back into their country to tell the
^jy»4he colony was undone; so that letting them know that
7*£ should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their
*j^9l"»and destroyed them every one that the storm had nor
C^troyed before; at the sight of which the savages raised a
^r^us'cry in the woods, which onr people heard plain enough,
net whicVthey ran about the island like distracted men; so
that, in a word, our men did not really know at first what ttf
do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with ail their prudence
consider, that while they made those people thus despe**te'
they ought to have kept a good guard at the same time up0*1
their plantations j for though, it is true, they had driven aW*7
their cattle, and the Indians did not find out their fli**0
retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the c^
in the valley, yet they found out my plantation at tfl*
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences *&
planting about it j trod all the corn under root, tore up W
vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did our m*f
an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthing*
worth of service.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all OC&'
sions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or bx&
them up and down j for as they were too nimble of foot *°
our men, when they found them single, so our men duff
not go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded with tltfj*
numbers. The best was, tfiey had no weapons; for thaW1
they had bows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials &
make any; nor had they any edged tool or weapon aroow
them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was gr**'"
a?nd indeed deplorable; but, at the same time> our men we^
also brought to very bad circumstances by them; for though
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroy
ed, and their harvest spoiled j and what to do, or which #$.
to turn themselves, they knew not. The only refuge they ha<*
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the &&£
and some little corn which grew there, and the plantation ^
the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, ^°
were now reduced to two; one of them being killed by &
arrow, which struck him on the side of his head, just un^
the temples, so that he never spoke more: and it was ^^
remarkable, that this was the same barbarous fellow that cU*
the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterVar®*
intended to have murdered the- Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this tifl**
than mine was at any time,, after I first discovered the S^^jl
of barley and rice, and got into the manner of planting ^
raising my corn, and my tame cattle j for now they had, a*J'
may say, an hundred wolves^upon the island, which woo^
devour every thing they could come at, yet could be haxdV
come at themselves.
JWierithey saw^hat their circumstances were, the first
thing they*cohciuded<wa«s, thst they would, if possible, drive
^em up to >the farther part bf the island, south-west* that if
itlf mote savages came on shore they might not ^find one
*^ther then that- they would daily 'hunt and 'haroissr them,
?*}<*ikill a* many of them as they could come at, till they
^ reducedr their nuriibeY; and if they could at last tame
*fenv, and-bring tfiem to anything, they would giver them
f?rn,-and*. teacht.thenv how to plant; and live upon their daily
Mbour.
in* order to*this; they so'followed them, and so terrified
^etri* with their gun?, that in a few days if any of them fir&d
*gui\at an Indian, if he did not Hit him, yet he would fail
v*Wn for fear j and so dreadfully frightened they were,- that
^ey kept out of sight farther and farther; till, at last, our
?^n following them, and almost every day lulling or wound-
^g^some of them, they kept up in the woods or hollow places
Scykhachy that it reduced them* to-the utmost misery for want
*tf?fc6d v and many were afterwards found dead in the woodr,
^ithautany hurt; absolutely starved to death.
When otirmen found tbisy it made their hearts relent, and
Mty moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was
*Wmost'gentlemanlike, generous minded man, that ever I
^et with in my life; and he proposed, if possible, to take
*toe of them alive, and bring him to understand what they
^fcarif, so'far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go artiori^
™fcm, and see if they might be brought to some conditions
{J^t might be depended upon, to save their lives and'do us rib
h*rm. ^ -
it was iBOme 'while before any of them could be taken;
^ being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last sur-
fr*4dd and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first, arid
^ould neithej eat or drink) but finding himself kindly used,
Vtitit victuals ^given him, and no violence offered Jtiim, lie at
^t!gr(*w*tractable; and came to himself. They brought old
JHdaytd hinr; who talked often with him, and told him how
^nd the others would be to them all; that they would not
?*% save their lives; but would give them' fart of the islarid to
J^in; provided they \vould give satisfaction that they would
*^p wtheir own bounds, arid not cdme beyond it to injure-
°f'prejudice others; and that they'should have corn given
£*etn to* plant and make it grow for their bread, and some
*>*sad given them for their present subsistence: and old Frt-
<% bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his country-
vol. n. I
74; ADVJ&»TURB$ OP ^
men*; and see*what they said to it; assuring, them, that if they .*
did not agree immediately, they should be all destroyed. v
The, poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in*
number to about thirty-seveu, closed with the proposal at
the hist offer, and begged.to have some food given t'hemjv
upon, which, twelve Spaniards and two }>tig}ishmen, well
armed* with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to*
the,place.wJu?re they were. The three Indian slaves carried'
4hem a,4arge quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes </«•
and dried in the sun, and three live goats -, and they were or-;
dered to go to the side of aj$l, where they sat down, ate
their provisions very thaul^ujly, and were the.most faithful
fellows to-their words that,jcpuld be thought of j for, except
When .they came to beg, victuals and directions, they neVer
came out of their bounds ^ and there they lived when I.cantt-'
to the island, and I Wfflp .to see them.
They had taughJfK)hein botii to plant corn, make bread,,*
fareed tame g©ab, and milk them: they wanted nothing but *
wives, and they soon would have been a nation. They were^
confined to a neck of land, ^surroutided with high, rocks be*-*
liind them, and lying plain {towards t,he sea before them, on
thea&uih-east corner of the island.. They had land enough*
and it was very ,gopd and-fruitful) about a mile and a halt*
•broad, and three^ /our mi}es,'isx, length*
Our *nen ;taught. them to make woodea spades, such as I
made for myself, and gave among. them twelve hatchets and,-?
three or four knives j and there they lived, the most subjected)
innocent creatures that ever were heard of. ',.<
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with,,;
respect to the savages till i came to revisit them, which was,
abput two years, after j not but that, now and then, somehr
•canoes of savages,came on shore for their triumphal, unnatural
feasts j but, as, they, were of several nations, and perhaps hai^
nearer .heard pf: those, that calme, before, or the reason of ijt#;f?
they did,,no^ make any search or inquiry after their country-^
men,$,; and if they hadVit would have been very hard tolave^
found them out., , tt,
Thus,^ thmlt^ I have, given a, full account of all that;hapf;
penecjto them Alii my retur^, at least, that was worth notice*1 *
The Indians or savages, were,, wonderfully civilized, by them*;i
and Jihey frequently went, among them j but forbid, on paia of
•deqtb,.any one,of jth^.Indknsjcomjng to tbem>: because they, <
would npt have theiresettlement^,betrayed aga'm. One thing
was very, remarkabienviz'.; that they taught, the savages jto make
wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon outdioT their masters»
*°r they made abundance of most ingenious tilings in wicker-
J^ork, particularly ail sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cup--
boards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
^ftd abundance of other things; being very ingenious at such •
^°rk, when they were once pat in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people, because
^e furnished them with knives, scissars, spades, shovels, pick-
a*es, and all things of that kind which they could want. With'
^ help of those tools they were so very handy, that they
came at last to build up their huts, or houses, very'handsomely,
Addling orworking it up Hke basket-work all the way round;
^hich was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked
*e*y odd, but was an exceeding good fence, as well against
^eat as against all sorts of vermin; * and our men were so
taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do
^5 like for theni; so that when I came to see the two
*%lishmen*s colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
a'Uived like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was
^ow become a very industridus, useful, and sober fellow, he
Wmade himself such a tent of basket-wopk, as, I believe, was
^ever seen j it was 120 paces round on the outside, as I mea-
sured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a bas-
ket, in'pannels or squares of thirty-two in number, and very
strong, standing about seven feet high: in the middle was
pother riot above twenty-two paces round, but built stronger,
b^ng octagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight'
v?ry strong posts; round the top of which he laid strong pieces,
P*nned together with wooden pins, from which he raised a
tyramid for a roof of eight Tatters, very handsome, I assure
^> and joined together very well, though he had no nails,
*nd only a few iron spikes, which he made himself too, out
D£fhe old'irori that I had left there; and, indeed, this fellow
?^>wed abundance of ingenuity in several things which he
ftad no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with a pair" of
^oodefn bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal
°* his work; and he formed out of the iron crows a middling
s°od anvii i0 hammer upon: in this manner i he made
^ay things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts
*?4 hinges.—But, to return to the house: After'he had
t*ltched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up be-
lVireen the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and thatched that
?**!• again so ingeniously with rice-straw, and over that a large
?**" of a tree, which covered the top, that hits house was as
^*7 as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that
the savages had made the basket-work for him. The outer
circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner apart-
ment, and long rafters lay from the , thirty-two angles to the
top posts of the inner house, being about twenty feet distant;
so that there was a space like'a walk within the outer wicker-
wall and without the inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, but much fairer, and divided it into six apartments, so
that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of,
these there was a door; first into Uie entry, or coming into
the main tent, another door into the main tent, and another
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that walk
was also divided into six equal parts, which served not only
for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries which the family
had occasion for. These six spaces not taking up the whole
circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had
were thus ordered :—As soon as you were in at the door oi
the outer circle, you had a short passage strait before you to
the door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker
partition, and a door in it, by which you went first into a
large room, or storehouse, twenty feet wide, and about thirty
feet long, and through that into another, not quite so long;
so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of
which were only to be come at through the apartments of the
inner tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the re-
spective chambers of the inner circle, and four large ware-
houses, or barns, or what you please to call them, which went
through one another, two on either hand of the passage, that
led through the outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in
the world, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less
so built. In this great bee-hive lived the three families, that
is to say, Will Atkins and his companion; the third was kill-
ed, but his wife remained, with three children, for she was, it
seems, big with child when he died: and the other two were
not at all backward to give the widow her full share of every
thing, I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c. and when
they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore > so that they
all lived well enough j though, it was true, they were not so
industrious as the other two, as has been observed already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as for re-
ligion, I do not know that there was any tiling of that kind
among them: they often, indeed, put one another in mind
that there was a God, by the very common method of seamen,
viz. swearing by his name: nor were their poor ignorant
savage wives much better for having been married to Christ-
tens, as we must call them; for as they knew very little of
God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of entering
into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk
any thing to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the
wives had made frorn them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well j and most of their children,
which were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English
too, from their first learning to speak, though they at hrst
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers. There
Was none of these children above six years, old when I came
thither, for it was not much above seven years that they had
fetched these five savage ladies over; but they had all been
pretty fruitful, for they had all children, more or less; I think
the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child; and the
mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious
women, modest and decent, helpful to one another, mighty
'observant and subject to their masters (I cannot call them
husbands) andwanted nothing but to be^well instructed in the
Christian religion, and to be legally married; both which
were happily brought about afterwards by my means or at
least, in consequence of my coming among them.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and
'pretty much of my runagate English, I must say something
] of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and
in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable
enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about Jheir cir-
fc cnmstances when they were among the savages. They told
me readily that they had no instances to give of their applica-
tion or ingenuity in that country -, that they were a poor,
miserable, dejected handful of people; that if means had been
'put into their hands, yet they had so abandoned themselves
* to despair, and so sunk under the weight of their misfortune,
1 that they thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a
* grave and sensible man, told me he was convinced they were
, -in the wrong 5 that it was not the part of wise men to give
themselves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reason offered, as well for present support as for
future deliverance: he told me that grief was the most sense-
less insignificant passion in the world, for that it regarded
"only things past, which were generally impossible to be recall-
fed,"or to be remedied, - but had no views .of things to come,
and had no share in any thing that looked like deliverance, but
rather added to the affliction than proposed a remedy; and
upon tliis he repeated a Spanish proverb, which, though I can*-
not repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I re-
member I made it into an English proverb of my own, thus:
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
He run on then in remarks upon all the little improvement*
I had made in my solitude -y my unwearied application, as he
called it, and how I had made a condition which in its circum*
stances was at first much worse than theirs, a thousand time'
more happy than theirs was, even now when they were all to*
gether. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had &
greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any people that
ever he met with: that their unhappy nation and the Portu*
guese were the worst men in the world to struggle with mis*
fortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after the common
efforts were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and die;
without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape*
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of food or present sustenance, till they could provide;
that, it was true, I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that
I was alone; but then the supplies I had providentially thrown
into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore,
was such a help as would have encouraged any creature in the'
world to have applied himself as I had done. "Seignior,"
•ays the Spaniard, *' had we poor Spaniards been in your case,
we should never have got half those things out of the ship, as
you did: nay," says he, " we should never have found mean*
to have got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail: and how much less should we have done
if any of us had been alone:" Well, I desired him to abate his
compliment, and go on with the history of their coming on
shore, where tbey landed. He told me they unhappily landed
at a place where there were people without provision* /
whereas, had they had the common sense to have put off to
sea again, and gone to another island a little farther, they had
found provisions, though without people; there being an
island that way, as they had been told, where there were
provisions, though no people; that is tc say, that the Spa-
niards of Trinidad had .frequently been there, and had filled
the island with goats and hogs at several time*, where
»<3fo*tfso*r cairsoE. ^9'
thfcybad bred in ^uch- multitudes, and inhere tattle and seV
^wls wer^-iii sufchpletity,-that they cfouid* have been1 in" ho
^aht of flesh, though theyhadfoimd'no brgatf; wherensure,
they were only sustained with *a> few roots and herbs, wltieh
^ey understottd not, and Which had no-substance Jin them, and
^'hich the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough; tmd who
could treat them no better, unless they would turn cannibals,
^nd eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country.
""They gave me an account how many ways they strove to
Civilize the savages they were with, and to tesxh them rational
^stoms in the ordinary way of living, but in vain ,• and how
*hey ported it upon them, as unjust, that they, who came
[here &r assistance and support, should attempt to set up for
instructors of those that gave them food j intimating, it seems,
that none should set up tor the instructors of others but those
who could live without them.
They gavetne dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven too,- how sometimes they were many days without any
food *at all, the island they were upon being inhabitedi>ya sort
of savages that lived more indolent, and for that reason were
fes& supplied^with' the necessaries of life, than they had reason
*0'believe dthers were in the same part of the world: and yet
they'found that these savages were less ravenous jtnd vora-
cious than those who had better supplies of food. Also they
ftdded, they could not but see with what demonstrations of
wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God directs
Jhe events of things in the world j * which, they safd, appeared
*n their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they
Were under* and the barrenness of the country Where they
^ere; they bad searched after a better to live in, they had then
k£en out of the way of the relief that happened to them by
toy means.
"They then gave me an account how the savages whomthey
Hved]among expected them to go out with them into their
^rs; and, it was true, that as they had iire-arms with them,
kad they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they
should' have been serviceable not only to their friends, but have
^ade themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but
feing without powder and shot, sihd yet in a condition that
*6ey could not in reason deny to go out with their landlords'to
their wars^ so when they came into the field of battle, they
Were in a worse condition than the savages themselves i fdr
they had -neither bows nor arrows* 'nor could they use those thfe
*&vages gave them; it> they could do nothing but atand still,
and be wounded wjth arrowy till they came ,up io t}ie teeth-0^
their enemy,* and then, Indeed the threehaiberds.they: had
were of use to them.; and they wouldjofteq drive, a .^hple little
army before them with those halberds*, and sharpened sticks put
into the muzzles; of their muskets,: but that, for all this, the/
were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great dan'
ger from their arrows, till at last they found the way tp make
themselves large targets of wood, which they covered wi^
skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not, and these
covered them from the arrows of the savages-: that, notwitb'
standing these, they were sometimes in great danger; and
five of them were once knocked down together with the club5
of the savages, which was the time wlien one of them, w*15
taken prisoner, that is to say, tha Spaniard whom J had re-
lieved: that at first they thought he had been killed,; but wliel1
they afterwards heard he was taken prisoner, they were.under
the greatest grief imaginable, apd would willingly have aliyefl*
tured their lives to have rescued him.
They told me that when they were so, knocked clowns the
rest of their company rescued them,,and stood oyer them fight-
ing,till they were come to themselves, all but him.whom the?
thought had been dead} and then they made their way wjtf1
their halberds and pieces, standing close together in a, lipe,
through a body of above a thousand savages, beating doWJV^
that came m their way, got the victory over their eueniie^
but to their great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their
friend, whom the other party, finding him alive, carried $&>
with some others, as I gave an account before.
They described most affectionately how they were: surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companionJti misery'
who, they thought, had been devoured by wUd beasts,of tltf
worst kind, viz. by wild men; and yet how more and mpie
they, were, surprised with the account he gave them.of.his errand* -
and that there was a Christian in any place near, mu,ch,njPr<J
one tljat.was able, and had humanity enough, tp contribute t°
their .deliverance.
They described how they wej£ astonished ,at the, sight o{
the relief I sent them, and at the appearance .of loaves*0*
bread, things they had not seen since their coming, to that
miserable place; how often they crossed and blessed it>a*
bread sent from Heaven; and whata reviving ,cordial it ^s
to their spirits to taste it, as also the other things I had sent
/or; their supply: and, after all, they. would, have, told.jne
something pf tne joy they were in at the sight of a boat, and
pilots/ to carry them away to the person arid place from
whence all tliese new comforts came*, but it was impossible to
Express It by words, for their 'excessive'joy naturally driving
.them* to unbecoming extravagancies, they had no way to de-
scribe them, but by telling me they bordered upon' lunacy,
.'having no way to give vent to their passions suitable to the
* Sense tha't .was upon them; that in some it worked one way, and
. in some' another \ arid that some of them, through a surprise
of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark mad, and others
immediately faint; This discourse extremely affected mes
.and called'to my mind Friday's cxtasy when he met his
'father, and the poor people's extasy when I took them up at
sea after their skip was on fire; the joy of the mate 6f the ship
when he found himself delivered in the'place where he ex-
pected to perish j and my owii joy, when, after twenty-eight
J'ears captivity, T found a good ship ready to carry me to my
, own country. All these things made me more sensible of the
'relation of these poor men, and more affected with it
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
them, I must relate the heads'of what I did for these people,
and the condition in which I left'them. It was their opinion,
and mine' too," that they would be troubled no more with the
savages', or'if they Were, they would be able to cut them off,
; if they were twice as many as before j so they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with"the
w Spaniard, whom I call governor,, about their stay in'the island;
for as t was not "come to'carry any of them off, so itVquld
"not be just to Carry off some and leave others, who, perhaps,
* would be unwilling to stay if their strength was'diminished.
* On the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there,
"not to remove them: and then I let them know that I had
brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them 3 that I had
• ( oeeri at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary,
as well for their convenience as their defence; and that I hail
such and such particular persons with me, as welHo increase
and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary eni-
"ployments; which they were bred to, being artificers, to assist
r,them in those things in which a'tjpresent they were in want;
%i! They were altogether when I talked thus to them; aruTbe-
*fore T delivered' \o them {he stores I had brought,'I .asked
*them, loiie" by r6rie,if they had entirely forgot and buried 'the
fir$t animo^itie's that had been amorig th£rn, and would shake
] hands'withj one'another, and engage in a stnctsTrieridship arid
vnHion*of interest, that*So':there'*might be'no*mor?misunder-
standings or jealousies. E 2'
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good hu-
mour, said, they had met with affliction enough to make
*hem all sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends;
that, for his part, he, would live and die with them 5 and was
so far from designing any thing against the Spaniards, that he
owned they had done nothing to him but what his own mad
humour made necessary, and what he would have done, and
perhaps worse, in their case j and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, Tor the foolish and brutish things be
had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them j and
would do any thing that lay in his power to convince them o(
it; and as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years.
The Spaniards said, they had, indeed, at first disarmed and
excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill
conduct, as they had let me know, and they appealed to me
for the necessity they were under to do so; but that Will
Atkins had behaved himself so bravely In the great fight they
had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the general
interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was past*
and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms, and
supplied with necessaries, as any of them $ and they had tes-
tified their satisfaction in him, by committing the command
to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had entire
confidence in him, and all his countrymen, so they acknow*
le,dged they had merited that confidence by all the methods
that honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and
they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this
assurance, that they would never have any interest separate
from one-another.
XJpqn these frank and open declarations of friendship, i«e
appointed the next day to dine altogether j and, indeed, we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook apd his mate
to come on $hore ancj dress our dinner, and the old cook,'*
mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore sU
pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's
provision, with pur punch-bowl, and materials to fill-it $ and*
in particular, I gave them ten bottlestofFrench claret, and ten
bottles of English beer \ things that neither the Spaniardsyf)t
the English had tasted for, many years, and whicbj it may!$$
supposed, they^were yeryglac} of., The Spaniards addejj :\Q
our fe^6ypyifh^]^^jv}nf;k the, copfe rpasjteij.andi $##
o'^thetft'Vete sent, covered np^tose, on board the ship to the
teamen, tliat they might feast 'on'fresh meat from on shore,
533 we did with their saft meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry,
,'I brought out my cargo of goods; wherein, that there might
be no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was a
"Sufficiency for them all, desiring that they might all take an-
nual Quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is to
*ay, etjual when made up. As, first, I distributed linen suf-
ficient to make every one of them four shirts, and, at the
Spaniards request^ afterwards made them up six; these
were exceeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I
niay say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, whicft I
Mentioned before, to make every one a light coat like a frock,
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool and
loose; and ordered that whenever they-decayed they should
friake more, as they thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes,
Stockings, hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction Bat upon
the countenances of all these pofcr men, when they saw the
care I had taken of them, and how well I had furnished them.
They told mfe I was a father to them; and that having such
a correspondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, it
would make them forget that they were left in a desolate
place; and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave
the place without my consent.'
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with
*fie, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
aH 'ofHhem rnost necessary people; but, above all, my general
artificer, than whom they could not name any thing that wafc
niore useful to them: and the tailor, to show his concern fbt
them* went to work immediately, and, with my leaVe, made
*hem every one a shirt, the first thing he did 5 and,; which
was still more, he taught the women not ority hbw to set*
And stitch, and use the needle, but made thertf assist to rriake'
the shirts for their husbands, and for all the rt*st.' v1
-As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention hdw useful
th*y were; for they took to pieces all my clumpy, unhandy*
things," arid made' them clever convenient tables, stools, bed*
KfeaUsy 'cup-boards, lockers;1 shelves, and every thing they
*femed of that kind: But t6 let them "see how nature-made4
WtifTceVs at first, I carried the carpenters to see<Will Atkins^
taiittoHoiMevfet * cailctf it ^ ant* they b<rtb^ried'they never
saw an. instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor any
thing, so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind j
and one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good while,
turning about to me, " I am sure," says he, " that man has
no need of us > you need do nothing but give him tools."
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had
no harrows or ploughs -} and to every separate place a pick-
axe, a crow, a broad-axe, and a saw; always appointing, that
as often as any were broken or worn out they should be sup-
plied, without grudging, out of the general stores that I left be-
hind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissars,
and all sorts of iron-work, they had without tale, as they re-
quired; for no man would take more than he wanted, and he
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them-on any account
whatever $ and, for the use of die smith, I left two tons of un-
wrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them
was such/even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at
them j for now they could march as I used to do, with a
musket upon each shoulder, if there was occasion, and were
able to fight, a thousand savages, if they had but some little
advantages of situation, which also, they could not miss, if
they liad occasion.
.... j carried on shore with rne^the^young man.fwhpse another
was starved to death, and the maid also: she was a sober,'
well educated, religious young woman, and behaved so in-
offensively, that every one gave her a good word \ she had,
indeed, an uuhappy life with us, there being no woman in the
ship but herself, but she bore it with patience. After a while,
seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving
upon my island, and considering that they had neither business
or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason forsaking so long
a voyage $ I say, considering all this, both of..them came to
me, and desired I would give them lqave to remain on the
island, and be entered among my family, as they called it.?-*,!,
agreed to this readily j audi they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three,tents or houses set/up^
surrounded with a basket-work, pallisadoed like Atkins's, ad--
joining to his plantation. .Their tents, were contrived so that;
they had each of them a rpom.apart to lodge in, and a middle
tent, like a great storehouse, to lay their goods in,, and to eat
and drink in. Ancl now the other two Englishmen removed,theif. \
habitation to the same place y and so the island was divided ;ntq
three colonies, and no morei viz. die Spaniards, with old Fri-
<%, and the first servants, at my old habitation under the hill,
*hich was, in a word, the capital city; and where they had
,s° enlarged and extended their works', as well under as on the
°Qtside bf the hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed,
'3^et full at large. 'Never was there such a little city in a wood,
'and,so hid in any part of the world; for I verily believe a
T tWsand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if
t ^ey had not known there was such a thing, and looked on
Purpose fbr ft, they would not have found it j for the trees
s*ood so thick and so close, and grew so fast woven one into
Mother, that nothing but cutting them down first could disco-
ver the place, except the only "two- narrow entrances where
they went in and out could be found, which was not very easy;
°fie of them was close down at the water's edge, on the side of
fhc creek, and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to
*he place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, as I have
already formerly described it 5 and they had also a large wood
thick planted on the top of the hill, containing above an
acre, which grew apace, and concealed the place from all disco-
very there, with, only one narrow place between two trees, not
easily to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there
Were four families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there,
Vith their wives and children; three savages that were slaves;
; the widow and the children of the Englishman that was killed;
the young man and the maid ;• and, by the way, we made a
•We of her before we went away. There was also the two
carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them j
also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them, espe-
cially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms -, and my other
tfian, whom I called Jack of all trades, who was in himself as
E°od almost as'twenty men; for he was not only a very inge-
n*ous fellow, but a very merry fellow 5 and before Invent away
)ve married him to the honest maid that came with the youth
1Q the ship I mentioned before.
And now "I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
Something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with
t^e out of:the ship's crew whom I took uj> at sea. It is true,
^this man-wasa Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to
* some 'hereafter; if I leave anything extraordinary upon record
'^ffa maa»whom, before I begin, I must (to set him out in ju.u
'colours)-represent in terms very much to his disadvantage, in
tdeaccount of Protestants: *as, tir«<t, that he was a Papist; se-
'condlyr a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French Popish priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due character; '$&
I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, .and most religion
person} exact in his Jife, extensive hi his charity, and exetfj'
plary in almost every thing he did. What1 then cart any;oi#
say against being very sensible of the value of such a v&n>
notwithstanding his profession? though it.may be my opinio*1'
perhaps, as well as the opinion of others who shall read tit&
that he was mistaken. ,
Tlje first hour that I began to converse with him after &e
had agreed to^o with me to the East Indies* Hound rea^
to delight exceedingly in his conversation 5 and be first beg&
with me about religion in the most obliging manner imaginable'
"Sir," says he, *' you have not only under God (and at th**
he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have admitted me
to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civiW
have taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity &
free conversation. Now, Sir, you see by my habit what &f
profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours is; I m*/
think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost
endeavours, on all occasions, to bring all the souls I can toUie
knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine?
but as I am here under your permission, and in your family* *
am bound, in justice to your kindness, as well as* in decent
and good manners, jto be under your government, and therefo^
J shall not, without your leave, enter into any-debate on;tb?
points of religion in which we may not agree, • farther thai
you shall give me leave." . ">
I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could: uofWf
acknowledge it 3 that it was true we were such peoplcas the?
called heretics, but that he was not the first Catholic 1 had co&
yersed with, without falling into inconveniences, or xanyi#?
the questions to any height in. debate j that he should mot Ifti*
himself the worse used for being of a different opinion from u^f
and if we did not converse, without any dislike on eitheri&idfcr
it should be his fault, not ours. ...- 'm-!;
He replied, that he thought all our conversation might ^
easily separated from disputes j that it was not his business^
cap principles with every man he conversed with; and thai*1*
rather desired; me to converse with, him as a gentleman thati**
a religionist f and that if I/would give hini leave at any tih#*
to discourse upon religious subjects, he would radUytompy
with it, and that he did notidqubt Jrat Lwonld allow hiri*:^
to defend Ws .own opinions as well a$he could*, butitiia^ wiffr*
ou^ ppyka^e, he wpnld notibreak in upon me with^dmc^
thing. He told me farther, that he would not cease to do all
%t became him, in his office as a priest as well as a private
Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the safety of all
'ftat was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with
Jitn, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray
*°r us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner
Jf6 conversed; and as he was of the most obliging, gentJeman-
%e behaviour, so he was, if I may be allowed to say so* a man
°f good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the
Wny extraordinary events of it; of many adventures which
J^d befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad
*J* the world; and particularly this was very remarkable, viz.
that in the voyage he was now engaged in, he had had the
Misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never
*° go to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at
*}rst designed. That his first intent was to have gone to Mar-
tjnico, and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St.
^alo; but being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship
Received some damage by running aground in the mouth of the
**ver Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there $ but
Ending a Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and
^ady to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel
there bound to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to
the Madeiras j but the master of the Portuguese ship being but
J* indifferent mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they
Wove to Fyal j where, however, he happened to find a very
Hood market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore re-
eved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the isle of
™ay, and to go away to Newfoundlandr He had no remedy
lr* this exigence but to go with the ship, and had a pretty good
Voyage as iar as the Banks, (so they rail the place where they
^tch the fish,) where meeting with a French'ship bound from
*^ance to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence tp
Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he should have an
opportunity to complete his first design j but when he Came to
**Uebec,>ihe master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded
?° farther; so the next voyage he shipped himself for France,
**r the ship, that was burned when we took them up at sea $
^then shipped with us for the East Indies, as I have already
^id. Thtts he had been disappointed in five voyages, all, as I
J^y.call^/mione. voyage, besides what I shall have oaJaskm
^haention farther of the same person.
Sut X.shall not* make-digression* into other men's stories,
^hich^mve do relation^ to my-own* J return to what concerns
our affairs in the island. He came to me one morning, for ke
lodged among us all the while we were upon the island, audi1
happened to be just when I Was going to visit the Englishmen*
colony, at the farthest part of the island j I say, he came w
me, and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he h3(
for two or three days desired an opportunity of some discoid
with me, which he hoped would not be displeasiug to me, be'
cause he thought it might in some measure correspond with fl?
general design, which was, the prosperity of my new colon)]'
and perhaps might put it, at least more than he yet though11
was, in*the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discoursfj
and turning a little short, " How, Sir;" said I, " can it be f{^
that we are not in the way of God's blessing, after such visits
assistances arid wonderful deliverances as we have seen he&
and of which I have given you a large account?'*—" If y°l1
had pleased, Sir," said he, with a world of modesty, and ^
with great readiness, " to have heard me, you would have (o^
no room to have been displeased, much less to think so hard0
me, that I should suggest that you have not had won dena
assistances and deliverances; and I hope, on your behalf, th'1
you are in the way of God's blessing, as your design is exceed'
•ing good, and will prosper: but, Sir, though it were more $°
than is even possible to you, yet there may be some amo^
you that are not equally right in their actions: and you kno^'
that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan in th<j
camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned his ho^
so against them, that six and thirty of them, though not co^
cerned in the crime, were the objects of divine vengeance, ^
bore the weight of that punishment."
I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him ^,s
inference was so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere
^and was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very sofl/
I had interrupted him, and begged him to go on: and, in ^e
mean time, because it seemed that what we had both to &1
• might take up some time, I told him I was going to the Engli^1'
men's plantations, and asked him to go with me* and ^c
might discourse of it by the way. He told me he would tn
more willingly wait on me thither, because there partly"^
thing was acted which he desired to speak to me about: so lT
walked oh, and I pressed him to be free and plain with me *?
what he had to say.
. '< Why then,- Sir," says he, " be pleased to give me lea^e
to lay down a few*propositions-; as the1 foundation of what 1 ha^p
to say, that we may not differ in the general principles, tboug
]^e may be of* some differing opinionsin the practice of 'par-
Jt*cularsj First, Sir, though wediffer in some of the^doctrinal
f^icles of religion, and it is very unhappy it is so, especially
Wine case before us, as-I shall show afterwards; Jyet there are
$°me general principles in which we both agreej viz. that
^ere is a God-; and that this God having given us some
stated general rules for our service and obedience; We ought
[tot willingly and-knowingly to offend him, either by neglect*
,ng to do what he'has commanded* or by doing what he has
Expressly forbidden: and let our different-religions be what
they will, this general principle is readily owned by us all,
ftat the blessing of God does not ordinarily follow presump-
tuous sinning against his command 5 and every good Christian
^ill be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under
^is care living in a total neglect of God and his commands.
*t is not your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion
;**iay be of such, that discharges me from being concerned for
*heir souls, and from endeavouring,, if it lies before-me; that
1 they should live in as little distance from enmity with their
'Maker as possible, especially-if you give me leave to meddle
,sb far.in your circuit.'*
I coukbnot-.yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I
.'•grantecbalHie had said, and thanked him that he would so far
-concern himself for us; and begged he would explain the
particulars of what he had observed, that, like Joshua,, to take
fh\% own parable,. I might put away the accursed thing from Us.
Vrw *< ^ky tjien^ gjr^. sayS jie^ «f j wjjj t3j^e tjje liberty you
I'Siveme; and there are three things, which* if I am right,
1|*Hist stand iu the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours
here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake> and their own,
^-see removed: and, Sir, I promise myself that you will fully
v*gree with me in them all, as soon as I name them; especially
oWcaus.e I shall convince you that every one of them may* with
'fereat ease,; and very much to your satisfaction, be: remedied.
^irst^Sir/* says he, " you have here four Englishmen, who
"4iaye fetched women from, aniong the savages, and have taken
^them as their wives, and have had. many children by them all,
''^Kl yet are not married to them after any stated, legal manner,
'/?s the laws of God and man require; and therefore are yet,
r'»i4he spqse of, both, no less than fornicators, if not living in
: ash\ltery. -/^othis, Sir, 1 know you. will: object that there,,was
n° clergyman or priest of any kind, or of any profession, to
^perfqrm the ceremony % nor any pen and ink, or paper, to
vvyritQ,<|o,wi? a contract of marriage, and have at signed between
90 ADTSKTOBES OT
them: and I know-also, Sir, what the Spaniard governor Jfc
told you, I triean, of the agreement that he obliged them g
make when they took those womeri, viz. that they sh<%
choose them out by consent, and keep separately to the^U
which, bythcway, isnothing of a marriage, no pgreenfl^
with the women, as ^wives, but only an agreement aiWfe
themselves, to keep them from quarrelling. But, Sir, thfe?
sence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, beiife-
ftoman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the p^f? |
to take one another, as man and wife, but in the formal %
legal obligation that there is in the contract, to compel &
man and woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge #fe
other; obliging the man to abstain from all other'women* L
engage in no other contract while these subsist, and, on ffi
occasions, as .ability allows, to provide honestly for therni %'
their children 5 and to oblige the women to the same, or l*,
conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their side. Now, Sir," #1
he, t( these men may, when they please, or when occ&#"
presents, abandon these women, disown their children, l¥$
them to perish, and take other women, and marry them wW
these are living:" and here he added, with some warn^rj
*f How, Sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty, $$
how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this pSft
however good in themselves, and however sincere^ in^y^
design, while these men, who at present are'your subject^ W
der your absolute government and dominion, are allowed M
you to live in open adultery ?*'
I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but m\W
more with the convincing arguments he supported it wu»|
for it was certainly true, that though they had no clergymal1
upon the spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made ^
fore Witnesses, and confirmed by any token which they had
all agreed to be bound by, though it had been but breaking^
stick between them, engaging the men'to own these wonie1*
for their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon the^
or their children, and the women to the same with their luiR
bands, had been an effectual lawful marriage in the sight f
God; and it was a great neglect that it was not done, $ut a
thought to have got off my young priest by telling him thap^
that part was done when I was not here, and they had )fv??
so many years with them now, that if it was adultery, #'.##
past remedy; they could do nothing in it now!
"Sir/* says he, "asking your pardon for such freedbP1*
you are right in this/ that it being done in your absence, )'oU
ROBINSON CEJ750E. fli"
^?M not be charged with that part of the crime} but, I beseech
JS flatter not yourself that you are not therefore under an
Ration to do your utmost upw to put an end to, it. How
^ you think but that, let the time past lie on whom itwjll,
^tlie guilt, for the future, will lie entirely upop you ? t Be-
J*0* it is certainly in your, power now to.put an.,end ,to \t,
^ m nobody's power but yours." .
5 ^Avassodull still, that I did not take him right; but I
Joined that by putting an end to it he meant that I should
f* them, and not suffer them to live together any longer r
p I said to him I could not do that, by any means, for that
.Would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed
^Prised that I should so far mistake .torn. ".No, Sir/*
p he, " I do not mean that you should now .separate them,.
J? kgally *nd effectually marry them now j and as, Sir, my
5?y of marrying them may not be easy to reconcile them to,
1 °ugh it will be effectual, even by your own laws, vso your
% may be as well before God, and as valid among men 5 I
%n, by a written contract signed by both nian and w^omau,.
Shy all the witnesses present, which all the la*s. of .Europe*
Nild decree to be valid." '• *•
A was amazed to see so much true piety, and so iiiuch sin-
%ity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in bis. discourse
* to his own party or church, and such true warmth for pre-
ying the people that he had no knowledge of or relation^© s
!i%»4br preserving them from transgressing the Jaws of pod,
^ like of which I had indeed not met with any where v but
Electing what he had said of marrying thep.jby awntten
>mctf which I knew he would stand too, I returned jtback
?«** htm/and told him, I granted all that he bad said.fo be
2& and on his part very kind; that I would discpurse with
> men upon the point now, when I came to them, and I
>* no reason why they should scruple to let him marry
!t*ni all, which I knew well enough would be granted to,be
Authentic and valid in England as if they were nnarried,by
** 6? our own clergymen j what was afterwards done in tiua
*Werf I shall speak of by itself.
, * then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint
Mich he had to make, acknowledging .that I was very much
?* debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He
:?ldhie he would use the same freedom and plainness,in
?e second, and hoped I would take it as well; and this was,
^ notwithstanding these English subjects of mine,, as lie
Call*l them, had lived with those women for almost seven
years, had taught them to speak English, and even to rea,^
and that they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable ufl'^
standing, and capable of instruction, yet they had not, tfo-,
hour, taught them any thing of the Christian religion, tiOf.^
so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship
in what manner God was to be served, or that their o^vP j>
atry, and worshipping they knew not whom, was false &n$'U
surd. This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and V |
God would certainly call them to account for, and perhaps
last, take the work out of their hands—he spoke this .^
affectionately and warmly. ft I am persuaded," says he, ' ^
those men lived in the savage country whence their ^
came, the savages would have taken more pains to ^
brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil; -j^
any of these men, so far as I can see, have taken witb^
to teach them the knowledge of the true God. ?\-
Sir," said he,, "though I do not acknowledge your r^®jj«,
or you mine, yet we would be glad to see the devils seF&j|)
and the subjects of his kingdom, taught to kno^ the g$&,
principles of the Christian religion,$ mat they .might, ^'S
hear of God and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection^ j
of a future state,—things which we all believe; l£ey haf*^
least, been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the'L
church than they are now, in the public profe4i<Mi'r9f i4°-
and devil-worship." * a?f hV v
I could hold no longer; I took him in my "arms, andf||
braced him with an excess of passion. "How far," s%|
to him, tf have I been from understanding the most ess^
part of a Christian I viz. to love the interest of the Chr>^
church, and the good of other men's souls :;I ^arce,^
known what belongs to the being a Christian."—" O, Sfa^,
not say so," replied he j "this thing is not your faulty
"No," says I; " but why did I never lay it to be*#jj
well as you?"—" It is not too late yet," said he) ^
not too forward to condemn yourself."—" But what cafe]
done now?" said I; (( you see I am going ^yvay."—" \y
* you give me leave to talk with these poor men about it J $
At Yes, with all my heart," said I; " and will oblige tn^
give heed to what you say too."—*' As to that," said he,;(^f
must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is ^,
business to assist them, encourage them, anc|iiq$trtict tl)^t
and if you give me leave, and God his blessing^Irdo not i°S
but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought home to the g^j
circle of Christianity, if not into the particular faith ^e
ufece, and that evert while you stay here." • Upon this I
5ft "TshaH not only give you leave, but give you a thousand
^?**s for it." What followed on this account, J shall men-
Jalsb again in its place.
Wt 0W pressed him for* the third article in which we were
Ijtfame. *' Why, really," says he, *' it is of the same tia- ,
'3?V anil will proceed, asking your leave, Vitli the same
j/air>hess as before: it is about your poof savages, who are,
5J3teay say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, Sir,
$\*s> or ought to be, received among all Christians, of wliat
J^eh or pretended church soever, viz. The Christian know-
3& ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all
Ss*lMe occasions. It is on this principle that our church sends
^ionaries into Persia, India, Chiria; and that our clergy,
.$ of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazard-
SVoyages, and thfe most dangerous residence among mur-
JjJ^s'atid barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the
^ God,; and to bring them over to embrace the Christian
7!^i N6w, Sir, yoti have such an opportunity Here to have
*ior seven and thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry
^}he knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I
^3er Kow you-can pass'such an occasion of doing good,
^icK is'reilly worth the expense of a man's whole life.*'
* was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to
&• I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and
J&on before me, let his particular principles be of what kind
ir^r: as for me, I had not so muchas entertained a thought
h^h in my heart before; arid I believe I should not have
w'ght of it; for I looked upon'these savages as slaves, and
HPW who, had we had any work for'them to do, we wvould
^used as such, or would have been glad to have transported
^ to any other part of the world j for our business was to
>p*id of them, and we would all have been satisfied if they
>i^ been sent to any country, so they had never seen their
1 ;J?*' But to the case;—I say, I was confounded at his dis*
<^*&, and knew not what answer to make him.
r«i?e lobked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder,—
v^i" says he, " I shall be very sorry if whdt I have said
£^s you anyoffence.1'—" No, no,11 says I, « I am offended
?** nobody but myself 5 but I am perfectly confounded, riot
i-ffv'to think that I should never take any notice of this be-
iJJV but with reflecting1 what notice lam able to take of it
^ !You know, "Sir/" said I,"'what' circumstances I am
in; I am bound to the East Indies in a ship freighted by rrt?f]
chants, and to whom it would be an insufferable piece of ^
justice to detain their ship here, the men lying all this W*11,
at victuals and wages on the owners* account. It is tn*e> j
agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more;..
must pay three pounds sterling per diem demurrage 5 nor ^
I stay upon demurrage above eight days more, and I ljStf
been here thirteen already; so that I am perfectly unabte .
engage in this work, unless I would surfer myself to be W,
behind here again j in which case, if this single ship sb<^
miscarry in any part of her voyage, I should be just in jV
same condition that I was left in here at first, and from whic*
have been so wonderfully delivered." He owned the case ^\
very hard upon me, as to my voyage j but laid it home «P^
my conscience, whether the blessing of saving thirty-seV^
souls was not worth venturing all I had in the world for* ^,
was not so sensible of that as he was- I returned upon ^
thus: "Why, Sir, it is a valuable tiling, indeed, to be art ^,
s'rument in*God's hand to convert thirty-seven heathens V
the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, & ,
are given over to the work, so that it seems so naturally r
fall into the way of your profession, how is it then that f&
do not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than press me *
doit?"
Upon this he faced about just before me> as we waited aloflft
and putting me to a full stop, made me-a very low bow."
most heartily thank God and you, Sir," said be, " for g»VJ^;
me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you tb&?'
yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it* ^
will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all uty
hazards and difficulties of such a broken, disappointed vof$;
as I have met with, that I am dropped at last into so glori^
a work." j
1 discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he sp°M
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, a?r.
his colour came and went, as if he had been falling into fits?
in a word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked j*
such a work. I paused a considerable while before; I co^
tell what to say to him; for I was really surprised to find
man of such sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal W*
yond the ordinary rate of men, not of his profession only, &V
even of any profession whatsoever. But after I had consider^*
it awhile, I asked hira seriously if he was in earnest, and th*
toe would venture, on the single consideration of an attemr
^%se poor people, to be locked up in ao unplanted island for
£i* £l?s his life, and at last might not know whether he should
$i9,te to do them good or not I 4, » *
j"? turned, short upon me, and asked* me what I called a
8e5Ure? "pray, Sir/* said he, " what do.you.thinlc I eon-
sf^» to S9 m )r°ur S^'P ^° jJhe.East Indies for }"—t€ Nay,"
$fi-h u that I know not, unless, it was to preach to the In^
cJ—V*—" Doubtless it was/* said he * *' and do you think if I
jS..convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ
jA^ot worth my time, though I should never be fetched off
o^sland again j nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to
t>f |?° many souls than my life is, or the life, of twenty more
qW same profession? Yes, Sir,", says he, "I would give
l^tyt and die blessed Virgin, thanks all my days, if I could
tjjv?)ade the least happy, instrument of saving the souls of
isf eP?or men, though I was never to,set my.,foot off this
v|J?-» Pr see my native country anymore. But since you
honotjr me with putting me into,thjs,work, for which I
fgray. for you all the days of my life, r Iiiave one humble
&nto you, besides/;-^' What is that?" said J, i", Why,'* .
h$p< it is^thrit you will leaye your man Friday with me,,:
^;,/rhyinterpreter to them, and to assist me *. for without
fife: help^l''papnqtspeak to them, qr they, to me/' , t
* was sSnsibly touched at his requesting Friday, because!.
sA^not thjnk of parting with him, and that for many rea-
oDP* tie h^d been the companion of my travel he,was,not
^.faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the dast, de-»
^ p>and.I'had resolved to do something; considerable for luna
ap touuiiyed rpej as it was probable .he would 5 then! Jfjaew
^i^slj^^d^red Friday up to bp a Protestant, it would quite *
$$^$& filnvto bring him to embrace another profession.)
hi^SVpuJd never, while his eyes were open, believe that
^?^d master was a heretic, and would be damned j and,this
iiJo^ *n ^e enc*'rum ^e Poor ^e^ows principles, and so turn
repf°ack again to his first idolatry. Hpwever, a sudden thought
cJ^v«dr me in. this strait, and it was;.,this: I-|#ld-him I
*clf ^ot~saxthat^ was willin§to Part wit^ tPfiday on any
Vaf^H^ whatever, though a work that tp-him was ~of more
tv^|Wn his life, .ought to be to me of,much more value
lJjlWkeeping,pr parting,with a.servant But, on the other
Vv! l,)vas persuaded that Friday.woujd.by no means..agim
co^'V^t me, and I could not force,him to it without his
1 ^nt' without manifest injustice; because 1 had promised
^°uid never put him away, and lie had^prGmbe^.aod
engaged to me that he would never leave me, unless 1 V^
him away. .
He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no ration3
access to these poor people/seeing he did not understand 0I1^
word of their language, nor they one word of his* To rem^
this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish
which I found he also understood, and he should serve W*!j.
as an interpreter. So he was much better satisfied; *$<
nothing could persuade him but he would stay and enduai'0^
to convert them 5 but Providence gave another very happ/
turn to all this.
I come back how to the first part of his objections. Vfh&
we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, ^
after some account given them of what I had done for the#>
viz. what necessary things I had provided for them, and #0 ,,
they were distributed, which they were very sensible of, & .
very thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandal^
life they led, and gave them a full account of the notice |^
clergyman had taken of it; and arguing how unchristian ^j.
irreligious a life it was, I first asked them if they were marri^
men or bachelors? They soon explained their conditions^,
me, and showed that two of them were widowers, and' ^
other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked th^
with what conscience they could take those women; #!j
lie with them as they had done, call them their wives> &%
have so many children by them, and not be lawfully marri^
to them?
They all gave me the answer I expected, viz. that fth#*
was nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the >.g^
vernor to keep them as their wives, and to maintain them,f#j?
own them as their wives; and'they thought> as things $W°^,
with them, they were as legally married as if they had' b#J
married by a parson, and with all the formalities in1*1
world. t
I told them that no doubt they were married in the &$
of God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as tj^t
wives; but that the laws of men being otherwise, they iriff)*
desert the poor women and children hereafter; and that tft&
wives being poor desolate women, friendless and moneyl^
would have no way to help themselves: I therefore told th^
that unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could <*
nothing for them, but would take care that what I did ihotW
be for the women and children, without them 5 and that'tifl
Z*8 they would give me some assurances that they would
J?31^ the women, I could not think it was convenient they
J^Uld continue together as man and wife, for that it was
r^ scandalous to men and offensive to Cod, who they could
ot think would bless th^m if they went on thus.
wAJl this went jon as I expected; and they told me, especially
jvHl Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they
°ved tkeir wives as well as if they had been born in their own
ative country, and would not leave them upon any account
hatever; and they did verily believe their wives were as virtu-
^and as modest, and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much
?r them and for their children, as any women could possibly
w,> and they would not part with them on any account: and
^11 Atidns, for Ms own particular, added, that if any man
^°uld take him away, and offer to carry him home to England,
i1^ make him captain of the best man of war in the navy,
£wQuId not go with him, if he might not carry his wife and
i^Hdren with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship,
e Would be married to her now with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it $ the priest was not with
jj^at that moment, but was not far off; so, to try him far-
mer, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was
Ncere, I would have him married next morning, and bade
?lt*i consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said as for
'ftiself, he need not consider of it at all, for he was very ready
.? <to it, and was glad I had a minister with me, and he be-
leved they would be all willing also. I then told him that
^y friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could not
s**ak English, but I would act the clerk between them. He
j^ver so much as asked me whether he was a papist or Pro-
liant, which was indeed what I was afraid of; so we parted,
: ^ent back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to
aIkwith his companions. I desired the French gentleman-
£ot to say any thing to them till the business was thorough
*e i and I told him what answer the men had given me.
-Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and
r** rne they had been considering what I had said; that they
jTei'e glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and
hey were very willing to give me the satisfaction I desired,
*nd to be formally married as soon as I pleased; for they,
H'ere far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they
!£eant nothing but what was very honest when they chose
ltlem. So I appointed them to meet me die next morning;
atl<^ in the mean time, they should let their wives know the
v°l. n. F
meaning of the marriage law; and that it was hot only ®
prevent any scandaJ> but also to oblige them that they snow*
not forsake them, whatever might happen. *
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning °
the thing, arid were very well satisfied with it, as indeed the/
had reason to be: so they failed not to attend all together a
my apartment next morning, where I brought out my c^f0^
man; and though he had not on a minister's gown, after tft
manner of England, or the habit of a priest, after the nian^
of France, yet having a black vest, something lifce a cass'oW
with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike a minister?
and as for his language, I was his interpreter. But the &W
-ousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples he made °
marrying the women, because they were not baptized a£,
professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for **1
person, and there was no need, after that, to inquire wlfcU^
he was a clergyman or not. Indeed, I was afraid his scrup^*
would have been carried so far, as that he would not W
married them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able *
say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily
and at last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he ^
iirst talked with die men and the women too; and though *
first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to *
with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design.
When he came to them, he let them know that I had $"
quainted him with their circumstances, and with the pr4^&
design; that lie was very willing to perform that part d£ **!
function, and marry them, as I had desired j but that bef^
he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk with tfietfy
He told them, that in the sight of all indifferent men, and^
the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this. wW
in open fornication 5 and that it was true, that nothing ™
the consenting to marry, or effectually separating them ft°f
one another, could now put an end to it j but there w"#^
difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian ^atr^
mony, which he was not fully satisfied about, viz. tkak£
marrying one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an it^*
ator and a heathen, one that is not baptized; and yet that *f
<lid not see that there was time left for to endeavour to pers^a
the women to be baptized, or to profess the name of Chn*'
whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and witbo^
which they could not be baptized. He told them he doubt^J
they were but indifferent Christians themselves; that they h*
but little knowledge of God or of his ways, and therefore ll
j*t*M wot Expect that they Tiad said much to. their wives oa
^t head yet; but that unless thayr would promise htm to .use
Jjeir endeavours with their wives to -persuade them to become
ptti&tiatt$> and would, as well -as they could> instruct <thera
JJJthe knowledge and belief tof God ihatjmade meray and to
^°rship Jesus Christ that redeemed .them, -he cauid rm%
r*ny them; for he would 'have no hand in joining Christ-*
J^s with savages 5 nor was it consistent with the principles
r'the Christian religion, and was indeed j&spressty forbidden
tn Sod's law.
'They'heard all this very attentively^ and ^delivered it very
atthfully to >mem From his mouth, as meat dhis own words as
could ; -only sometimes* adding something of my own> to
Evince them how just Vt was -, and how I was of his mind:
^ I always very-feithfuHy distinguished between what I said
*r°nt myself, and what were the clergyman's words. l*hey
'^ld me it was very true what the gentleman said, that they
^ere very inditfereiit-Christians themselves, and thatithey had
'fevefr talked to their Wives about' religion. "Lord, Sir,"
%$ Will'Atkins, 4' how should we.teach them religion?
^liy<we<know nothing ourselves; and besides, Sir," said he,
'Should we talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and hea-
v^n and hell, it would make thom laugh at us, and ask nw
^Hat we believe ourselves? Atld if we should tell them that
*fc belieVeall the tilings we speak of to > them, such as Osgood
^°p1e going* to'hearten, and wicked people! to the:deviU they
^W'aiik us where'we intend togo* ourselves, that believe all
?&> and a*e such wicked fellows as we - indeed are? Why,
^}*3 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first hear-
^8 ir,foikff must have some religion themselves before they
Pteterid to' teachntlier people/'^" Will Atkins," said I to
1InV" though I am afraid that what you say has too much
] JJKh in it, yet can youiiot tell your wife she is in the wrong?
that there is a God, and a religion better than her own; that
^ gods are idols; that they can neither hearaior speak; that
fj^te' is a great Being that made all things, and tnat can de-
^oyall that he has made; that he rewards the good and
Pushes the bad; arid that we are to be judged by him at last
j°falt we do here: you are*not so ignorant, but even nature
'tself will teach you that all this is true; and I am-satisfied
J0^ know it all to be truei and believe it yourself"—" Tliat
.^trtiei Sir/' said Atkins; €t but with what fcce can 1 say
^y thing to my wife of all this, when she will tell me immed-
iately it cannot be true ?"—" Not true!" said I) "what do
you mean by that V—" Why, Sir," said he, ft she will tell
me it cannot be true that this God I shall tell her of can be
just, or can punish or reward, since h am not punished and
$ent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature #s
she knows I have been, even to her, and to every body el$e>
and that I should be suffered to live, that have been always
acting so contrary to what J must tell her is good, and to what
I ought to have done."—" Why, truly, Atkins," said I, t( I
am afraid thou speakest too much truth;" and with that I in*
formed the clergyman of what Atkins had said, for he wa*
impatient to know. "O," said the priest, "tell him there
is one thing will make him the best minister in the world 'to
his wife, and that is, repentance j for none teach repentance
like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, an<*
then he will be so much the better qualified to instruct h'$
wife j he will then be able to tell her that there is not only
a.God, and that he is the just rewarder of good and evil, bo*
that he is a merciful being, and with infinite goodness a#*
long-suffering forbears to punish those that offend, waiting t°
be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather
that he should return and live: that oftentimes he surTef*
wicked men to go a long time, and even reserves damnation
to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evident
of God and of a future state, that righteous men receive ni>t
their reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they cont«
into another world; and this will lead him to teach his wifr
the doctrine of the resurrection and of the last judgement.
Let him but repent for himself, he will bean excellent preach'
er of repentance to his wife.*'
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious &*
the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more tbafl
ordinarily affected with it: when being eager, and hardly
suffering me to make an end—tf I know all this, master/
says he, <( and a great deal more; but I have- not the imp***
dence -to talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience
knows, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against
nae, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God --&
future state, -or any thing about it; and to talk of my repent*
ing, alas! (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and I coulf}
see that the teats stood in his eyes,) 'tis past all that with me.'t
—" Past it, Atkins?" said I; "what dost thou mean by that''
—" I know well enough what I mean/* says he 5 '"I m&n
'tis too late, and that is too true.'*
I told the clergyman, word for'word, what he said: the
Poor zealous priest,—I must call hrm so, for, be his opinion,
^Hat it will, he had certainly" a most singular affection for the
good of other men's souls, and it'would be hard td think he>
had not the like for his own,—I say, this affectionate man
could not refrain from tears; but, recovering himself, said
*Q me, iC Ask him but one question j Is he easy that it is too
tate* or is he troubled, and wishes it were not so?" I put
&e question fairly to Atkins y and he answered, with a great
<teai of passion, how could any man be easy in a condition that
ftnist certainly end in eternal destruction? that he was far
from being easy j but that, on the contrary, he believed it
would, one time or other, ruin him. "What do- you meant
ty that?" said I. Why, he said, he believed he should
one time or other cut his throat, to put an end to the terror
of it.
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his
face^ when I told him all this; but turning quick to me upon
*U says, ts If that be hii case,, we may assure him it is not too-
late * Christ will give him repentance. But, pray," says* he,
^explain this to him; that as no man is saved but by Christ,
and the merit of his passion procuring divine mercy for hfm,
jbbw can it be too late for any man to receive mercy? Does
he think he is able to sin beyond the power or reach of divine
mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a time when provoked
*nercy will no longer strive, and when God may refuse-to hear,
bttt that His never too late for men to ask mercy; and we,
that are Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at
<*U, times', in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that 'sincere-
ly repent; so ^hat it is never too late to repent."
^ I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnest-
ness j but it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the
*esti for he said to me, he would go and have some tatk 'with
bis wife; so he went out a while, and we talked to the rest.
J perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters* of
religion, a& much as I was when I went rambling away from
ttiy father \ and yet there were none of them backward to
hear what had been said j and all of them seriously promised
that they would talk with their wives about it, and do their
endeatours to persuade them to turn Christians.
The. clergyman smiled upon me when I reported What
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while j but at
U&t shaking his head, « We that are Christ's servants," says
he> «< can go no farther than to exhort and instruct? and
JQ2 APVJS^TUfifcS OF
when tnen comply, snbroit tc* the reprtpfc and promise what
we ask, 'tis all we can do j we are bound tb accept their
good wprds i but, belrere me, Sir/' said he, " whatever )W
may have known of die life of that man you call Will Atkins;
J believe he is the only sincere convert among them \ I take
that man to be a true penitent: 1 will pot despair of the rest >
but that man is apparently struck with the sense oi his pa**
life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion, to W*
wife, he will talk himself effectually intuit} for attempting
to teach others is sometimes the best way oi teaching ourselves
I know a man, who, having nothing bat a summary nptiotf
of religion himself, and being wicked and profligate to th*
Jast degree in his life, made a thorough reformation in him*
self by labouring to convert a Jew, Jf that popr Atkins be-
gins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife,
my life for it, he talks himself into a thorough convert, make*
himself a penitent, and who knows what may follow 2"
Upon this discpurse, however, and their promising,, as-abov^
to endeavour to persuade their wiyes to embrace" Christianity)
he married the other two couple- $ but WiU Atkins- and hi*
wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman wait*^
ing awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone}
and turning to me, said, u I entreat you, Sir, let; u$ walk out
of your labyrinth here, and Ippkj I dare say we. shall £n4
this poor man somewhere .or other talking seriously |oi hjs
wife, and teaching her already something of religion/* I be-
gan to be of the same mind; so we went out together, and I
carried him a way which none knew but myself, and where
the trees were so very thick that it was not easy to see
through the thicket pf leaves, and far harder to see in than
to see out 9 when coming to the edge of the wood, I saw
Atkins and his tawny savage wife sitting under the shade of 0
bush, very eager in discourse: I stopped short till my clergy
man came up to me, and then having showed him where they
were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a good white-
We observed him very earpest with her, pointing up to the
sun, and to every quarter pf the heavens, and then down \o
the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then tp her, to
the woods, to the trees. "Now," says my clergyman, " yon
see my words are made good, the man preaches to her* mar)c
him now, he is telling her that our God has made him and
her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees,
&c."—" I believe he is," sa,i4 I- Immediately w^ perceived
Will Atkins start upon bis feptj &U down p« his knees, antf
lift up both his hands. We supposed he said something, but
^e coujd npt hear him; it was too far for that. He did not
continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down
again by his wife, and talks to her again y we perceived then
the woman very attentive, but whether she said any thing to
fen, we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his
knees, I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergy-
man's cheeks, and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was
3 great affliction to us both that we were not near enough to
hear any thing that passed between them. Well, however,
We coujd come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them $ so we
fesolved to see an end ©f *Ws pkce of still conversation, and
it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice. He
sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again
earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him
embrace*her most passionately 5 another time we saw hjm
take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kis$
her-again, with a kind of transport very unusual 5 and after
several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump ug
again, sjnd lend her his hand to help her up, when immediately
leading her by the hand a step or two, they both kneeletj
down together, and continued so about two minutes.
ftty friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloiiaV
(( St. Paul! St. Paul! behold he prayeth." I was afrai4
Atkins would hear him, therefore I entreated him to withr
hold himself awhile, that we might see an end of the scene,
which to me, I must confess, was the most affecting that
ever'I saw in my life. Well., he strove with himself for a
while, but was in such raptures to think that the poor heathen
woman was become a Christian, that he was npt able to con-
tain himself j he wept several times, then throwing up his
hands and crossing his breast, said over several things eja.cular
tory, and by way of giving God thanks for so miraculous^ a
testimony of the success of our endeavours $ some he spojae
softly, and I could not well hear others; sprue in Latin, s'orne
in French; then two or three times the tears would iptpnjupf
him, that he could not speak at all j but *I begged that h,e
would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and Jfutly
observe what was before us, which he did for a time, the scepp
not being near encled yet; for after the poor rnan asi4"$?
wife, were risen again from their knees, we observpd hp s.tQQ.4
talking still eagerly to her, and we observed her mo,Uon, ih.aj:
she was greatly affected with what he said, by her frequently
lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and auqh
other postures as express the greatest seriousness and atten-
tion: this continued about half a quarter of an hour, and then
they walked away; so we could see no more of them in that
situation. I took this interval to talk with my clergyman >
arid first, I was glad to see the particulars we had both been
witnesses to, that, though I was hard enough of belief in
such cases, yet that I began to think it was all very sincere
here, both in the man and his wife, however ignorant they
might both be, and I hoped such a beginning would yet have
a more happy end: ff And who knows," said I, f< but these
two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon
some of die others ?"—" Some of them?" said he, turning
quick upon me; "aye, upon all of them: depend upon it, if
those two savages, for he has been but little better, as you
relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave
it till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is natur-
ally communicative, and he that is once made a Christian
will never leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it." I
owned it was a most Christian principle to think so, and a
testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous heart, in him.
ff But, my friend," said I, fe will you give me leave to start
one difficulty here? I cannot tell how to object the least tiling
against that affectionate concern which you show for the turn-
ing the poor people from their paganism to the Christian re-
ligion: But how does this comfort you, while fhes& people
are, in your account, out of the pale of the Catholic church,
without which you believe there is no salvation? so that you
esteem these but heretics, for other reasons as effectually lost
as the pagans themselves."
To this he answered, with abundance of candour, thus:
iX Sir, I am a catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of
the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of
the Roman faith; but yet, if you will believe me, and that I
do not speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my cir-
cumstances and your civilities j I say, nevertheless, I do not
look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, without some
charity: I dare not say (though I know it is our opinion in
general) that you cannot be saved; I will by no means limit
the mercy of Christ so far as to think that he cannot receive
you into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us unper-
ceivable -, and I hope you have the same charity for us: 1
pray daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever method he, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct.
In the mean time, sure you will allow it consists with me, a*
&*Roman> to distinguish far between a protestant and a pagan %
between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way
which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a
savage or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Re-
deemer -, and if you are not within the pale of the catholic
church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than
those that know nothing of God or of his church: and I re-
joice, therefore, when I see this poor man, whom you say has
been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down and
pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully
enlightened; believing that God, from whom every suclr
Work proceeds, will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him
to the farther knowledge of that truth in his own time: and
if God shall influence this poor man to convert and instruct
the ignorant savage, his wife* I can never believe that he shall
be cast away himself. And have I not reason then to rejoice*
the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though
they may not be brought* quite home into the bosom of the
catholic church just at the time when I may desire it, leaving
it to the goodness of Christ to perfect his work iii his own
*irae, and in his own way? Certainly, I would rejoice if al*
the savages in America were brought, like this poor woman;
to pray to God, though they were all to be protestants at first,
rather than they should continue pagans or heathens; firmly
believing, that he that had bestowed the first light to them
would farther illuminate them with a beam of his heavenly
grace, and bring them into the pale of his church> when he
should see good."
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious
papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his rea*
soning 5 and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such
a temper was universal, we might be all catholic Christians^
whatever church or particular profession we joined in j that
a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into right prin-
ciples j and as he thought that the like charity would make
Us all catholics, so I told him I believed had all the members
of his church the like moderation, they would soon all be
Protestants.—And there we left that part y for we never dis-
puted at all.
However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by
the hand, " My friend," says I, " * wish all the clergy of ther
Roman church were blest with such moderation, and had an*
equal share of your charity.' I am entirely of your opinion-:!
but I .must tell you, that if you should preach such doctrine in
F2
Spain or Italy,, they wouid put you into the Inquisition/'*-"*
"It may be so," said he -, te I know not what they would
do in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the
better Christians for that severity j for I am sure there is no
heresy in abounding with charity."
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business
there was over, so we went back our own way; and when
we came back, we found them waiting to be called in: ob-
serving this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to
Ijim that we had seen him under the bush or not 3 and it was
his opinion we should not, but that we should talk to him
first, and hear what he wouid say to us: so we called him in
alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves; and I began
with him thus:
Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education had you? What
was your father?
W. A, A better man than ever I .shall be: Sir, my father
was a clergyman.
J2. C. What education did he give you?
IF. A. He would have taught me well, Sir 3 but I despised
all education, instruction, or correction, like a beast, as I
was.
i?. C. It is true, Solomon says, He that despises reproof is
brutish,
W. A. Aye, Sir, I was brutish, indeed, for 4 murdered
my father: for God's sake, Sir, talk no more about that -,
Sir, I murdered my poor father.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he
spoke) and looked pale: it seems he believed that Will had
really killed his lather.
12. C. No, no, Sir} I do not understand him so: Will
Atkins, explain yourself; you did not kill your father, did you,
with your own hands?
W. 4- No, Sir, I did not cut his throat j but I cut the
thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days: I broke
his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return, for the
most tender and affectionate treatment that father ever gave,
or child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father, to extort
this confession: I pray God give you repentance for it, and
forgive you that and all your other sins; but I asked you be-
cause I see that though you have not much learning, yet you
are not so ignorant as some are in things that are good $ that
you have known more of religion, a great deal, than you have
practised.'
IF. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the; confession that
J make about my father, conscience does -, and whenever we
come to look back upon our lives, the sins against onr indul-
gent parents are certainly the first that touch Us j1 the wounds
they make lie deepest, and the weight they leave will' lie
heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit.
R. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins;
J cannot bear it.
IP. A. You bear it, Master! I dare say you know nothing
of it. y
R. C. Yes, Atkins j every shore, every hill, nay, I may
say every tree in this island, is witness to the anguish of my
&oul for my ingratitude and bad usage of a good, tender father';
a father much like your's, by your description; and I mur-
dered my father as well as you, Will Atkins j but I think, for
all that, my repentance is short of your's too, by a great deal.
I would have said more, if I could have restrained my pas?
sions $ but I thought this poor.man's repentance was so much
fcincerer than mine, that I was going to leave off the discourse
and retire; for I was surprised with what he had said, and
thought that instead of my going about to teach and instruct
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a
most surprising and unexpected manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly
affected with it, and said to me, "Did I not say, Sir, that
when this man was converted he \vould preach to us all! 1
tell you, Sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, Jjere
Asdil be no need of me; he will make Christians of all in the
island."—But having a little composed myself, I renewed my
discourse with Will Atkins. But Will, said I, how comes the
sense of this matter to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has fstruck
a dart through my very soul) I have been talking about God
and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make
a Christian of her, and she has preached such a senuon to me
as I shall never forget while I live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but
"when you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience
has flung them back upon you.
W. A* Aye, Sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.
fi. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between, you
and your wife j for I know something of it already.
W*,A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it.i
I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it;
but let her have said what she will, and though I cannot g«ve
you an account of it, this I can tell you, that I have resolved
to amend and reform my life.
R. C. But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will?
For this has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She ha*
preached a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you*
W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about
marriage, and what the reasons were that men and women
were obliged to enter into such compacts, as it was neither in
the power of one or other to break; that otherwise, order and
justice could not be maintained, and men would run from their
wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one,
another, and neither families be kept entire, nor inheritance*
be settled by legal descent.
R. C. You talk like a civilian, Will j could you make her
understand what you meant by inheritance and families?
They know no such things among the savages, but marry any
how, without regard to relation, consaaguinity or family;
brother and sister j nay, as I have been told, even the father
and the daughter,, and the son and the mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir> you are misinformed, and my wif*
assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it \ perhaps,
for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are j
but she tells me they never touch one another in the near re-
lationship you speak of.
i£. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was much
better than in her country.
R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A. Aye, aye; there began our dialogue. I asked heir
if she would be married to me our way? She asked me what
way that was? I told her marriage was appointed by God >
and here we had a strange talk together, indeed, as ever man
and wife had, I believe.
N. i?. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took
down in writing, just after he had told it me, which
was as follows:
Wife. Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in
your country?
IV. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country.
Wife. No your God in my country -x my country have ih#
great old Benamuckee God.
W A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is;
God Is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea,
^nd nil that in them is.
Wife. No makee de earth $ no you God makee all earth;
fio makee my country.
, Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
Hialvfrig her country.'
Wife. No laugh 5 why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.
; He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more se-
rious than he at first.
W. A. That's true, indeed 5 I will not laugh any more,
my dear.
Wife. Why you say you God makee all?
W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you
and me, and all things 5 for he is the only true God, and
there is no God but him; he lives for ever in heaven.
,Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?
'W. A. That's true, indeed 3 but I have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thex; with
any thing before, but have lived without God in the world
myself.
Wife. What, have you a great God in your country, you
tio know him? No say O to him? No do good thing for
him? That no possible?
r W: A. It is too true; though, for all that, we live as if
there was no God in heaven, or that he had no power on
earth.
Wife. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you
good live?
W. A. It is all our own fault.
Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, have much
great power, can makee kill when he will, why he no makee
fill when you no serve him? No say O to him, no be good
tnans.
W. A. That is true, he might strike me dead; arid I ought
to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true j
out God is merciful, and does not deal with us as wfe deserve.
Wife. But then do you riot tell God thankee for that too?
W A: No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy,
ar>y more than I have feared God for his power.
Wife. Then you God no God; me no think believe he be
such one, great much power, strong; no makee kill you,
though you make him much angry.
* W.A. What, will my wicked life hinder you from believing
in God? What a dreadful creature am I! and what a sod
truth is it, that the horrid lives of'Christians .hindexs the con-
version of heathens!
Wife. How me think you have great much God up there
fshe points up to heaven), and yet no do well, np do good
thing? Can he tell? Sure he no tell what you do? ,
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all tilings \ he hears..OS,
speak, sees what we do, Jtnows what we think though,we oa
not speak.
Wife. What! he no hear you curse, swear, speak de gre^t
damn?
W. A. Yes, yes; he hears it all.
Wife. Where be then the much great power strong?
W. A. He is merciful, that is all we caji say for it; and
this proves him to be the true God; he is God, and not man>
and therefore we are not consumed.
Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to
think how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees,uind
hears, and knows the .secret thoughts of the heart, and! all that
we do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things
he had done.
Wife. Merciful! What you call that?
W. A. He is our father and maker, and he pities and
spares us.
Wife. So then he never makse Jcill, never artgry when, yotf
do wicked; then he no good himself, or no great able.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely good and infinite-
ly great, and able to punish too; and sometimes, to show life
justice and vengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners
and make examples; many are cut off in their sins.
Wife. But no makee kill you yet j then he tell yau, ,ixjay
be, that he no makee you kill j so you makee de bargain with
him, you do bad thing, lie no be angry at you when he be
angry at other mans.
W. A. No, indeed; my sins are all presumptions upon
his goodness; and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed
me, as he has done other men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what
you say to him for that? You no tell him thankee for all
that too?
W A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.
Wife. t Why he no makee you much good better? You stf
he makee you.
W. A. He "made me, as he made all the worlds it is *
*&*e deformed myself and abused his goodness, and made my-
^If an abominable wretch.
^t/e. I wish you makee God know me -, J no makee him
angry, I no do "bad wicked thing.
Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hear
* poor untaught creature desire to be taught to know God,
and he such a wicked wretch that he- could not say one word
to her about God, but what the reproach of his own carriage
^ould make most irrational to her to believe; nay, that al-
J^ady she'had told him that she could not believe in God,
because he, that was so wicked, was not destroyed.
IV. A* My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you to
know God, not God to know you \ for he knows you already,
and every thought in your heart.
Wife. Why then he know what I say to you now j he
know me wish to know him $ how shall me know who
toakee me?
tV A. Poor creature! he must teach thee, I cannot teacb
thee 3 I will pray to him to teach thee to know him, and for-
gave me, that am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him
to make her know God, and her wishing to know him, that
*ie said he fell down On his knees before her, and prayed to
God to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledge of
Jesus Christ/and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being
the unworthy instrument of instructing her in the principles
of religion: after which he sat down by her again, and their
dialogue went on.:—This was the time when we saw him
kneel down, and hold up his hands.
Wife. What you put down the knee for? What you hold
Pp the hand for? What you say? Who you speak to? What
*sall mat?
W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my submis-
sion to him that made me •, I said O to him, as you call it,
and as your old men do to their idol Benamuckee; that is, I
prayed to him.
Wife. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes, and your un-
derstanding, that you may know him, and be accepted by him*
Wife. Can he do that too? ,
W. A, Yes, he can; he can do all things.
IPifc. But now he 'hear what you say?
W. A. Yes; he has bid us pray to him, and promised to
near ais.
Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid >3{8*«
What, you hear him speak? ,...',... -?v
W. A* No, we do not hear him, speak3 but he has reveaki
himself many ways to us. .;
Here he was at a great' loss to make her understand tH^
God has revealed himself to us by his word, and what .hfe
word was 3 but at last he told it her thus:
W. A, God has spoken to some good men in former1 dayS':-
even from heaven, by plain words 3 and God has inspired go?"
men by his Spirit j and they have written all his laws down Jl1
a book. . 1 •* 
Wife. Me no understand that 5 where is book?
W A. Alas! my poor creature,.I have not this bqok 3 b^f
I hope I shall one time or other get it for yqUj.qnd help J#°
to read it.
Here he embraced her with great affection 3. but with ine?*
pressible grief that he had not a bible. . ^
Wifet But how you makee me know that God teachee the*1^
to write that book? .
W. A. By the same rule that we know, him to be Godv < /
Wife. What rule? What way you know, hjm?
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing but wlvtfj
is good, righteeus, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly
good, as well as perfectly happy 3 and because he forbids, ang,
commands us to avoid,, all that is wicked,,; that is eviriri itself
or evil in its consequence. . , ,"! t
Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see: if fi°.
teachee all good thing, he makee all good thing, he give p
thing, he hear me when I say O to him, as you do just noytf,*;
he makee me good, if I wish to be good 3 he spare me* n0;
makee kill me, when I no be good: all this you say he do,
yet he be great God: me take, think, believe him to be great
God } me say O to him with you, my dear. . . . <
Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised h?r
up7 made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God. aloud &,
instruct her in the knowledge of himself by his Spirit 5 and th^t,
by some good providence, if possible, she might some time ot
other come to have a bible, that she might read the word $..
God, and be taught by it to know him.—This was thetitttA
that we saw him lift her up by the hand, rand saw him kne'd
down by her, as above.. , '^
They had several other discourses, it seems;, after ihis^ to°
long to be set do,wn here ;. apd particularly she madeliim pro*
mise that since he confessed his own life had been a*wickf£
J°ominable course of provocations, against God, that he would
torm it, and not make God angry ariy more -7 lesf; he should
^aKe him dead, as she called it, and then she would be left
j#e, and never be taught to know this God better; and lest
j| should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men would
^> after death.
» This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both,
|p particularly to the young clergyman > he was indeed won-
5tfhlly surprised with it, but under the greatest affliction ima-
I'aable that he could not talk to her, that he could not speak
vnglish to make her understand him; and as she spoke but
j$ry broken English, he could not understand her* however,
Atumed himself to me, and tpld me that he believed that,
jpre must be more to do with this woman than to marry
.er» I did not understand him at first, but at length he ex-
plained himself, viz. that she ought to be baptized. I agreed
4h him in that part readily, and was for going about it
fesently. "No, no; hold, Sir," said he; " though 1 would
Vfk • • uuslu lu ue uapuzea. i agreea,
Vh him in that part readily, and was for going about it
«. "though 1 would
ist observe that
J^U Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a won-
J>tful manner, to be willing to embrace a religious life, and
!^s given her just ideas of the being of a God j of his power.
Justice, and mercy: yet I desire to know of him if he has
^'any tiling to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of
'pners; of the nature of faith in him, and redemption by
ty; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgement,
"*!]d a future state.'1
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him j but the poor
>Mow fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said
Soniething to her of all those things, but that ty^was Jwni-
s?)f so wicked a creature, and his own conscience so repfoach-
^ him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled afc^Jhe
^Prehensions that her knowledge of him should lessen the
^ftention she should give to those things, and make her rather
J^temn religion than receive it j but he was assured, he said,
J5p* her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of
jf those things, and that if 1 would but discourse with her,
stl9 would make it appear to my satisfaction that my labour
wP$d not be lost upon her.
Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as inter-
P^ter between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated
"ln>to begin with her j but sure such a sermon was never
Reached by a popish priest, in these latter ages of the world j
*Q<*, as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal/ all tho
knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the error
of a Roman catholic j and that I took him to be such a
clergyman as the Roman bishops were, before the church'rf
Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences °*
men. In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him, not win*
wonder and astonishment only, as she did the first notions °*
a God, but with joy and faith j with an affection, and a $V&
prising degree of understanding, scarce to be imagined, muc*1
less to be expressed; and, at her own request, 8iie ^
baptized.
When he was preparing to baptize her^ I entreated hi1*1
that he would perform that office with some caution, that $&
man might not perceive he was of the Roman church, if pos*
sible, because of other ill consequences which might attend *
difference among us in that very religion which we were i*1*
structing the other in. He told me that as he had no con*
secrated chapel, nor proper things for the office, I should &*
he would do it in a manner that I should not know by it th^
he was a Roman catholic myself, if I had not known it be#
fore; and so he did j for saying only some words over to hi^1'
self in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a who!?
dishful of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing ,IV
French very loud, "Mary/' (which was the name her h«sJ
band desired me to give her, for I was her godfather,) "*
baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, ai^
of the Holy Ghost 3" so that none couki know any thing W
it what religion he was of. He gave the benediction after*
wards in Latin, but either Will Atkins did not know but it W3*
French, or else did not take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them j arid after tltf
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a ver/
affectionate manner exhorted him, not only to persevere fp
tjiat good disposition he was in, but to support the conviction5
that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life 5 toW
him it was in vain to say he rq)ented if he did not forsaty*
his crimes: represented to him how* God had honoured hi^
with being the instrument of bringing his wife to the knoW*
ledge of the Christian religion, and that he should be carefi*
he did not dishonour the grace of God; and that if he did, &e
would see the heathen a better Christian than himself j 'tM
savage converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a
great many good things to them, both; and then recommend
Fng them to God's goodness, gave them the benediction agaifl>
rq;binsqn CRUSOE. IIS
Repeating e^eiy thing to them in English; and thus ended
jfce ceremony. I thi*k it was the most pleasant and agreeable
W to rap that ever I passed in my whale life.
r But my clergyman had not done yet > Ks thoughts hung
9£ntifiually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven ravages,
|B4 fain he would have stayed upon the island to have under-
pken it j but I convinced hijn, first, that his undertaking was
^practicable in itself 5 and, secondly, that perhaps I would
"fittt it into a way of being done in his absence to his satis&c-
?J°ti i of which by and by.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
f**npass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the
^ung man I had taken out of the famished ship's company
Fame to me, and told ma hp understood I had a clergyman
J^th me, and that I had caused the Englishmen'to be married
*° the savages s that he had a match, too, which he desired
^ight be finished before I went, between two Christians,
M)ich he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.
: I knew this must be the youpg woman who was lijs mother's
8eryant, for there was no other Christian woman ox\ the bland •
50 I began to persuade him not to do any thing of that kind
fashly, or because he found himself in this solitary circum-
stance* I represented to him that he had some considerable
substance in the world, and good friends, as I understood, by
J*i.mself, and the maid also; that the maid was not only poor,
^d a servant, but was unequal to him, she being six or sev^a
£&d twenty years old, and he not abovo seventeen or eighteen $
^at he might very probably, with my assistance, make a re**
Fpove frojn this wilderness, and come into his own country
*gain) and that then it would be a thousand to pne bujt
t$. would repent his choice, and the dislike of that circum-
stance might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say
Wore, but lie interrupted., smiling, and jtold me, with a great
^al of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses; that he ba<J
^°thing of that kind in his thoughts j and he was. very glad
*£ near that I had/an intent of putting them in a way to see
toeir own country again? and nothing should have put him
^on staying there, but that the voyage I was going was so
£*9£?fding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite put
?f the reach of all his friends -, that he had npthing to desirp
tf nie^ but that J would settle him in some little property in
t% island where he was, give him a servant or two. and some
*e\v necessaries, and he w^uld settle himself Ijere like a plant*-
% waiting the good time when, if ever I returned tp England,
I would redeem them; and hoped I would not be unmindful
of htm when I came to England: that he 'would give me sbrn|
letters to his friends in London, tolet them know how g°°?
had been to him, and in what part of the world, and what^ctf*
cumstance I had left him in j and he promised me that whe^
ever I redeemed him, the plantatidn, and all the improvement?
he had made upon it, let the' value be what it would, shoU|[!
be wholly mine. , ,-
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering,*1^
youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he told #
positively the match was not for himself. I gave him all p0sS!!
ble assurances that if I lived to come safe to England, I woUl£j
deliver his letters, and do his business effectually; and that W
might depend I should never forget the circumstances I f»p
left him in: but still I was impatient to know who was ^
person to be married \ upon which he told me it was my Ja^
of all trades and his maid Susan. T was most agreeably &*'
prised when he named the match, for indeed I thought it vef;
suitable. The character of that man I have given already?
and as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, #)?
religious young woman j had a very good share of sense, w*
agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely, a|Jj*
to the purpose, always with decency and good manners, a^r
neither, too backward to speak, when requisite, nor imperti*
nently forward, when it was not her business; very hancy
and housewifely, and an excellent manager; fit, indeed, to MAS?
been governess to the whole island, and she knew very wtf"
how to behave in every respect.
The match being proposed in this manner, we rriarfied the**1
the same day; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say>
and gave hex away, so I gave her a portion j for 1 appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of grourid "i°x
their plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the propos*1
the young gentleman made to give him a small property in tbe
island, put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that the/
might not quarrel afterwards about their situation.
This sharing out the land to them I left to Will'Atkins*
who was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfect
reformed, exceedingly pious and religious, and, as far as-1 ttiff
be allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily belted
he was a true penitent. He divided things so justly,, arid *°
ipuch to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired &&
general writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused
to be-drawn up, and signed and sealed to diem, setting out tp
^nds and situation of every man's plantation, and testifying
- at I gave them thereby severally a right to the whole pos*
^s.ion and inheritance of the respective plantations or farms,
|itK their improvements, to them and their heirs, reserving all
$e rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
% every particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any
0tl^ from me, or in my name, came to demand it, producing
fy attested copy of the same writing.
As to the government and laws among them, 1 told them I
Vas not capable of giving them better rules than they were able
*P give themselves j only I made them promise me to live in
tyve and good neighbourhood with one another; and so I pre-
pared to leave them.
/One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now
^ttled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves, and
Wing much business in hand, it was but odd to have seven
$*)d. thirty Indians live in a nook of the island, independent,
a&d, ipdeed, unemployed j for, excepting the providing therri-
^fjves food, which they had difficulty enough to do, sometimes
-"^ey had no manner of business or property to manage. I pro-
posed,'therefore, to the governor Spaniard, that he should go
•!p.,thetii». With Friday's father, and propose to them to remove,
3fi,d either plant for themselves, or take them into their several
&rnjlies a,s servants, to be maintained for their labour, but with-
*H)t being absolute slaves; for I would not admit them to make
"jnern slaves by force, by any means; because they had their
liberty given them by capitulation, as it were articles of sur-
*£rjder, which they ought not to break,
r, They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all
iStery," cheerful along with him: so we allotted them land, and
-filar*Rations, which three or four accepted of,' but all the rest
ff]?ose to be employed as servants in the several families we
fiad settled.; and thus my colony was in a manner settled, as
fp)lows;—The Spaniards possessed my original habitation,
^nich was the capital city, and extended their plantations all
$ong the side of the brook* which made the creek that I have
,?Q often described, as far as my bower j and as they increased
tiieir culture, it went always eastward. The English lived in
i$e north-east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades l>e-
^3n, and came on southward and south-west, towards the back
;P,an of the Spaniards; and every plantation had a great addition
°f land to take in, if they found occasion, so that they need^
illQt joStle one Another for want of room. All the east end of
**ie island w^s left uninhabited, that if any of the savages
should come on shore there only for their -usual customary barrf
barities, they might come and go; if they disturbed nobody;
nobody would disturb them: and no doubt but they were ofp&
ashore, and went away again, for I never heard that the plant?
ers were ever attacked or disturbed any more. - *
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to xny friend
the clergyman that the work of converting the savages might
perhaps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, *fn"
told him that novr I thought it was put in a fair way; ^
the savages being thus divided among, the Christians, if the/
would but every one of them do .their part with those which
came under their hands, I hopscL it might bave a very goo^
effect.
He agreed presently in that, if they did their part: €t but
how," says he, " shall we obtain that of them?" 1 told hi*11
we would call them nil together, and leave it in charge with
them, or go to them, one by one, whicb he thought best: s°
we divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards, who ware all p3*
pists, and I to the English, who were all protectants *, and v?$
recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise that
they would never make any distinction of papist or protestarrt
in their'exhorting the savages to turn Christians, but teach, tli*?r9
the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Sayjo'tf*
Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us that they woup
never have any differences or disputes one with another about
religion.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, (I may call it so, ftf
suchra house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe, w*5
jiot standing in the world again,) there I found the young W0-
man I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's wife, were
become intimates j and this prudent, religious young woman,
had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun > and though
it was not above four days after what I have related, yet th*
new baptized savage woman was made such a Christian a?<*
have seldom heard of in all my observation of conversation ft
the world.
It came next into my mind, in the morning before J wen*
to them, that amongst all the needful things f had to leave with
them, I had not left them a bible, in which 1 rihowed nryse**
Jess considering for them tfian my good Yriend the >vidow w#
for me, when she sent me the cargo of an hundred pounds fro&
Lisbon, where she packed Up three bibles and a prayer-bop^'
However, the good woman's charity1 had a greater extent tha*1
ever she imagined, for they were reserved Yor the comfort arid
Jnstruction of those that made much better use of them than I
had done.
M tookt>ne of the bibles in my pocket, arid when I came to
Will Atkins's tent, or house, and found the young woman and
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of religion together,
for Will Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy, I asked if
ftey were together now, and he said yes; so I went into the
*biise, and he with me, and we found them together very-
earnest in discourse. "O,. Sir," says Will Atkins, u when
pod has siriners to reconcile to himself, and aliens to bring
Jiome, he never wants a messenger *, my wife has got p new
JUstructor; I knew I was as unworthy as I was incapable of
that work; that young woman has been sent hither from hea-
ven; she is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I desired
her to sit still;, I told her she had a good work upon her hands,
*nd I hoped God would bless her in it;
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book
among them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand into
*nv pocket, and pulled out my bible; "Here," sa>4s I to At-
kins, if I have brought you an assistant that perhaps you had
fo>t before." The man was so confounded that he was not
able to speak for some time; but recovering himself, he takes
h with both his hands, and turning to his wife, " Here, my
dear," says he, " did not I tell you our God, though he lives
£bove, could hear what we said? Here's the book I prayed for
Mien you and I kneeled down under the bush $ now God has
fieard us, and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell
into such transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of
having-it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his
ftce like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a
mistake that none of us were, aware of} for she firmly believed
God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is true,
*hat providentially it was so, and might be taken so in a con-
sequent sense; but I believe it would have been no difficult
Matter, at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman to
have believed that an express messenger came from heaven on.
Purpose to bring that individual book 5 but it was too serious
a matter to suffer any delusion to take place $ so I turned to
the young woman, and told her we did not desire to impose
^pon the new convert, in her first and more ignorant under-
handing of things, and begged her to explain to her that God
*nay:be very properly said to answer our petitions, when, in
the course of his providence, such things are in a particular,
manner brought to pass as we petitioned for j but we dicf riot
expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous and particular^
manner and it is our mercy that it is not so. .,
This the young woman did afterwards effectually* so th*j:
there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here; and 1 shoum
have thought it one of die mbst unjustifiable frauds'in the world
to have had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will Atkinf
is really not to be expressed j arid there, we may be sure, wa*
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the
world for any thing of its kind than he was for the bible -, noO.
I believe, never any man was glad of a bible from a better p"n*/
ciplej and though he had been a most profligate creature/
headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet this man Is *
,standing rule to us all for the well instructing children, vi^.
that parents should never give over to teach and instruct, or §te$.
despair of the success of their endeavours, let the children be,
ever so refractory, or, to appearance, insensible of instruct]on I
for, if ever God, in his providence, touches the conscience ok
such, the force of their education returns upqn them, and the
early instruction, of parents is not lost, though it may have been
many years laid asleep, but, some time or other, they may rln4
the benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man j however-
ignorant he was of religion and Christian knowledge, he -foufl"
he had some to do with now more ignorant than himself, and
that the least part of tjie instruction of his good father that
now Came to his mind was of use to him.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father
Used to insist so much on the inexpressible value of die bible>
the privilege and blessing of it to nations, families, and pet-
sons; but he never entertained the least notion of the wotth
of it'till now, when being to talk to heathens, savages, ao<*
barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle for hfc
assistance. *
The young woman was glad of it also for the present oc*
casion, though she had one, and so had the youth, on board
our ship, among their goods, which were not yet brought o$
shore. And now having said so many things of this young
woman, I cannot omit telling one story more of her and my*
self, which has something in it very informing and remark*
able.
I have related to what extremity the poor young woman
was reduced, how her mistress was starved to death, and died
on board that unhappy ship we rnet at sea, and how the whole
*J$pfs company was reduced to the last extremity. The gen-
tlewoman,and her son, and this maid, were first hardly used,
*s to provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved; that
Jf,to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger.—One day,
TrJng discoursing with her on the extremities they suffered, I
^ked her if she could describe, by what she had felt, what it
M'as to starve, and how it appeared? She told me she believed
sJie could, and she told her tale very distinctly, thus:
., u First, Sir," said she, <f we had for some days fared exceed-
ing hard, and suffered very great hunger: but at last we were
> Wholly without food of any kind, except sugar, and a little
Wne and water. The first day, after I had received no food
at all, I found myself> towards evening, first empty and sick
ft the stomach, and nearer Tiight much inclined to yawn-
tog and sleep. I laid down on a couch in the great cabin to
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little refresh-
ed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down: after
^eing about three hours awake, it being about five o clock in
the morning, I found myself empty, anctniy stomach sickish,
and lay down again, but could not sleep at all, being very
feint and ill -, and thus I continued all the second day, with a
strange' variety, first hungry, then sick again, with reachings
to vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to bed again
'Without any^food, more than a draught of fresh water, and
feing asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the
Market was mightily stocked with provisions 5 that I bought
sorue for my mistress, and went and dined very heartily. I
thought my stomach was as full after this as it would have been
afier a good dinner; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly
*tink in my spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine.
*he last glass of wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it,
because of its having some spirit to supply nourishment 5 but
•Giere being no substance in the stomach for the digesting
office to work upon, I found the only effect of the wine was,
to raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head $
Jnd I lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
*°r some time. The third day, in the morning, after a night
^°'f strange, confused-, and inconsistent dreams, and rather
^ozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious with
hunger; and I question, had not my understanding returned
and conquered it, whether, if I had been a mother* and had
'tod a little child with me; its life would have been safe or
*}°t. This lasted about three hours 5 during which time I
"Vox.; it, G
was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young
master told me, and as he can now inform you.
"In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down,
and struck my face against the corner of a pallet bed, m
which my mistress lay, and, with the blow, the blood gushed
out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little bason*
I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the blood came
from me, I came to myself, and the violence of the flame ot
fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the
hunger. Then I grew sick, and reached to vomit, but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up. After *
had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believed I ^3
dead; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a m^st
dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be described, not like the.
cholic, but a gnawing, eager pain for food; and towards the
night it went off, with a kind of earnest wishing or longing
, for food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a worn^n
with child. I took another draught of water, with sugar H*
it y but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all ^P
again: then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that
stayed with me j and I laid me down upon the bed, praying
most heartily that it would please God to take me away; an4
composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and
then waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapou$
from an empty stomach; I recommended my soul then to Godi
and earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the
sea.
"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I though^
•expiring, but bore it with much more patience than I; gave
die last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young mas-
ter, who would not havs taken it, but she obliged him to eat
it; and I believe it saved his life.
"Towards the morning I slept again; and when I awoke*
I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a se*\
cond fit of violent hunger: I got up ravenous, and in a mo#
dreadful condition: had my mistress been dead, as much as I.
loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a*piece of her flesl*
with as much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did eat the
ilesh of any creature appointed for food; and once or twice *
was going to bite my own arm: at last I saw the bason ifj
•which was the hlood I had bled at my nose the day before ', \
ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and.such a greedy
appetite, as if I wondered nobody had taken it before, anp
afraid it should be taken from me now. After it was down*
though the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it checked
the fit of hunger, and I took another draught of water, and
^as composed and refreshed for some hours after. This
*as the fourth day j and thus I held it till towards night;
^hen, within the compass of three hours, I had all the several
circumstances over again> one after another, viz. sick, sleepy^.
°agerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again;
l^e,n sick, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and
*0 every quarter of an hour; and my strength wasted exceed*
l&gly: at night I laid me down, having- no comfort but in the-
hope that I should die before morning.
l< All this night I had no sleep; but the- hunger was now
turned into a disease; and I had a -terrible cholic and griping,
V wind, instead of food, having found its way into the
hotels j and in this condition I lay till morning, when I was
surprised with the cries and lamentations of my young master,
^ho called out to me that his mother was dead: I lifted my*.
seJf Up a little, for I had not strength to rise, but found she war
**ot dead, though she was able to give very little signs of life:
t( I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of
sOrne sustenance, that I catmot describe j with such frequent
throes an<J pangs of appetite, tha't nothing but the tortures of
death can imitate j and in this condition I was when I heard
?he seamen above cry out, " A sail! a saill" and hollow and
lUinp,about as if they were distracted.
"I was not able to get off from die bed, and my mistress'
^Uch less 5 and my young master was so sick, that I thought
& had been expiring; so we cou^ not °Pen the cabin door>
% get any account what it was that occasioned such con-
%ion j nor had we any conversation with the ship's com-
pany for two days, they having told us that they had not a'
Mouthful of any thing to eat in the ship 5 and this they told us
afterwards they thought we had been dead.—It was this dread-
ful condition we were in when you were sent to save our
fyeaj and, how you found us, Sir, you know as well as I,
^better too/*
/This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account
°?-starving to death, "as, I confess, I never met with, and was
feeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe-
n to be a true account, because the youth gave me an account
of a good part of it; though, I must own, not so distinct and
s9. feeling as the maid j and the rather, because it seems his-
^thei; fe'd him at the price of her own life; but the poor
^aid, though her constitution being stronger than that of her
'mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she
might -struggle harder with k; I say, the poor maid might be
supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mis-
tress, tfho might be allowed to keep the last bit something
•longer than she parted with any- to relieve the maid. N°
question, as the case is here related, if our ship, or soine
other, had not so providentially met them, a few days more
would have ended all their lives, unless they had prevented it tyf
eating one another j and "that even, as their case stood, would ,
have served them but a little while, they being five hundred'
leagues from any land, or any possibility of relief, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened: but this is by die way J
I return to my disposition of things among the people.'
And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons
I did not think fit to let them know any thing of the sloop J
liad framed, and which I thought of setting up among thernj
for j found, at least at my first coming, such seeds of divisions
amoi.g them, mat I saw plainly, had I set up the sloop, and.
lett.it :!m^ng them, they would, upon every light disgust, have
separated, and gone away from one another, or perhaps have
turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead
of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended it:
nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on
board, or -the two quarter-deck guns that my ne'priew took
^extraoHhiary, for the same reason: I thought it was enough to
•qualify them for a defensive war against any that should in-
vade them, hut not to set them up for an offensive war, or to
•go abroad to attack others j which, in the end, would only
bring ruin and dealt action upon them: I reserved the slopp*
therefore, and the guns, for their service another way, as I shall
observe in its place.
Having now done with the island, I left them all in good
-circumstances fcnd in a flourishing condition, and went on,
board my ship again the 6th of May, having been about,
twenty-five days among them; and as they were all resolved
to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised
to send them farther relief from the Brasils, if I could possi-
bly-find an opportunity: and, particularly, I promised to send
them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows j as to the
two cows and calves which I brought from England, we had
been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea>
for want of hay to feed them.
The next day, giving them a salute of five; guns at parting*,
we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brasilv
in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our
passage but this: that about three days after we had sailed,
being becalmed, and the current setting strong to the E. N. E.
running, as it were, into a bay or gulph on the land side, we
were driven something out of our course, and once or twice
our men cried out, " Land to the eastward 5" but whether it
was the continent or islands we could not tell by any mean3.
But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the
Weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the
land with something very black; n^t being able to discover
what it was, till after some time, our chief mate going up the
main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspec-
tive, cried out it was an army.. I could not imagine what he
meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
Sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may
see them paddle along, for they are coming towards us a-
pace/'
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew
the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the
island, and having never been in those seas before, that he
could not tell what to think of it, but said, two or three times,
we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering we
were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore,
I liked it the worse: however,, I bade them not to be afraid,
but bring the ship to an anchor as soon as- we came so near to
-Jcnow that we must engage them.
- The weather continued calm, and they came on, apace to-
: "wards us; so I gave order to come to an< anchor, and furl all
our sails; as for the savages, I told them they had nothing to
fear but fire, and therefore they should get their boats out, and
fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the stern,
and man them both well, and wait die issue in that posture-:
/this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready with skeets
and buckets to put out any fire these savages would endeavour
to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they
came up with us: but never was such a horrid sight seen by
* Christians: though my mate was much mistaken in,his calcu-
lation of their number, yet when they came up we reckoned
about a hundred and twenty-six; some of them had sixteen
or seventeen men in- them, and some more, and the least six
or seven.
, ,.When they came nearer to.us, they seemed to be struck.
136 ;J£DYENTOKES.T>F
with wonder and ^astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless
they had never seen before j nor could they, at irst> as we
.afterwards understood, know what to make of us* they came
boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed to go aboutrtb
row round us; but we called to our men in the boats not to
;Jet them come too near them. This very order brought us to an
engagement with them, without our designing it; for iive ot
si* of the large canoes came so near our long-boat that our men
•beckoned with their hands to keep them back, which they un-
derstood very well, and went back; but. at their retreat about
fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and one of *ouf
men in the long-boat was-very much wounded. However, I
called to them not to iire by any means; but we handed down
some deal-boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently
«et up a kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover thorn from
the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.
- About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body
astern of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what*
they were, though we could not tell their design; and I easily
•found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of>sa-
•vages that I had been used to<engage with; and in a short time
.more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came dt-
xectly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
/us, Jill they came so near that they could hear .us speak: upon
this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should fshoot
#ny more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but being so
near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the
-deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which accordingly he did. Whether they nn*
derstood him or not, that J knew not; but as soon-as he had
•called to them, six of them, who were in the iforemostor nigh-
<cst boat to us, turned their canoes from us, andstooping'down,
showed us their naked backsides, just as if, in English, saving
your presence, they had bid us kiss whether this was a
defiance or challenge we knew not, or -whether it was don» in
mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest j but immediately
Friday 'cried out they were 'going to Bhoot; and, ainhappily
for him, poor fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their
•arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, "killed poor Friday, no
other man being hitheir-sight. The poor fellow was shot?wjth
no less than three arrows, and about three more fell very near
'him; such unlucky marksmen 'they were!' ., -..  v
I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and
companion, that I immediately^orderedfiye^guns to be loaded
*with smali-shbt, and four with great, and gave them such a
broadside as they had never heard in their lives before, to be
sure. They were not above half a cable length off when we
fired} and our gunners took their aim so well, that three oc
four of their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe,
by one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides to us
gave us no great offence; neither did I know for certain
whether that which would pass tor the greatest contempt
among us might be understood so by them or not; therefore*,
in return, I had only resolved to have fired four or five gUns
at them with powder only, which I knew would fright them
Sufficiently} but when they shot at us directly, with all the
fury they were capable of, and especially as they had killsd my
poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved and valued, and who^
indeed, so well deserved it, I thought myself not only justi*.
liable before God and man, but would have been very glad if
I could have overset every canoe there, and drowned eveYy
one of them,
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many w6
bounded at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurrjr
never was seen among such a multitude$ there were thirteen
or fourteen of their canoes split and overset in ail, and the men*
all set a swimming: the rest, frightened out of their wits> *
fccoufed away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save
those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot $ so I
suppose that many of them were lost 3 and our men took u£
one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after they,
Were all gone.
The small-shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound
a great many; but, in short, we never knew any thiag how*
it Went with them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours, of
thereabouts, we could not see above three or four straggling
canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any more 3 for a breeze
of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed, and set
Sail for the Brasils.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was $0 sullen
that he would neither eat or speak, and we all fancied he would
starve himself to death: but I took a way to cure him; for* I
made them take him and turn him into the long-boat, arid
make him believe they would to3S him into the sea again, and
so leave htm where they found him, if he would not speak i
ftor would that do, but they really did throw him into the feea,
*n& came away ftora him j and then he followed them/ fox
he swam like a cork, and called to them, in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said: however, at last
they took him in. again, and then he began to be more tractable;
nor did I eVer design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again j but I wa.s the most discon-
solate creature alive for want of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to the island to have
taken one of the rest from therice for my occasion \ but tt
could not be 5 so we went on. We had one prisoner, as 1
have said, and it was a long time before we could make him
understand any thing *, but^in time, our men taught him some
English, and he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards, we
inquired what country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said \ for his speech was so odd, all gutturals, and
he spoke in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we
could never form a word after him; and we were all of opi-
nion that they might speak that language as well if they were
gagged as otherwise j nor could we perceive that they had^ny
occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a, tune, with an open
throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we. had
taught him to speak a little English, that they were going with .
their kings to fight a great battle. When he said kings,,we
asked him how- many, kings? He said they were five nation,
(we could not make him understand the plural 5)., andtha^tliey
all joined to ga against two nation. We asked him what made
them come up to us? He said, "To makee te great wonder
look.*' Here it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also
those of Africa, when they learn English, always add two es
at the end of the words where we use one; and they place the
accent upon them, as makee, takee, and the like; and. we
could not break them of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday
leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take
my last leave of him: Poor honest Friday! We buried him
with all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting him
into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea j and I caused
them to iire eleven guns for him: and so ended the life of, the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant,
that ever man had.,
We went now away with a fair wind for Brasil $ and, in
about twelve days time we made land,, in the latitude of nve
degrees south of the line* being the north eastermost land of
all that part of America. We kept on S. by J$. in sjght of
the shore four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and
in three days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
and evil fate.
Never ship came to this port that had less business than I
had, and yet it was with great difficulty that we were-admit-
ted to hold the least correspondence on shore: not my part?-
ner himself, who was alive, and made a great figure among
them, not my two merchant-trustees, not the fame of my
"wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain me that
favour; but my partner remembering that I had given five
hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augus-
tlnes, and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to
the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go to
the governor, and get leave for me personally, with, the captain
and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and
no more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for,
that we should not offer to land any goods out of the ship,.
or to carry any person away without licence. They were so<
strict with us as to landing any goods, that it was with extreme
difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such
as *fihb;proad-clbths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had
brought for a present to my partner.
'He w^s a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like
me, he came from little at first: and though he knew not
that I had the least design of giving him any. thing, he sent
'rrie on board a present of fresh provisions, wine and sweat-
'meats, worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco,
and three Or four fine medals of gold: but I was even with
: hirn in my present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine
'bre-ad-clbth, English stuffs, lace, and fine hollands; alsa I
"delivered him about the value of tool, sterling, m the same
goods, for other uses 3 and 1 obliged him to set up the sloop,
which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I
intended to my^plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very
few days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master
of her such instructions as he could not miss the place 5 nor
did lie miss them, as I had an account from my partner after-
wards. I* got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent
them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore with
trie there, offered to go with the sloop and settle there, upon
niy letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him a sufficient
G2
quantity of land for a plantation, and giving him some, clothes
and tools for his planting work, which he said he .understood
having been an old planter at Maryland, and o ;buccaneer-inr
to the bargain. I encouraged the ftllow, by gracing .all 4u?
^desired j and, as in condition, I gave him the savage wiiom
we had taken prisoner of war to be his slave, and -ordered
•the governor Spaniard to give him hisshare df e,very .thing-.he
wanted with the rest.
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner toH
;jme there was a certain very honest fellow, .a JBrasil planter of
his acquaintance, who had ofollen rinto the displeasure of the
.church. "I know not what the matter is with him/' :snys
he, "-but on my conscience I think he is a heretic in *his
heart, and he has been obliged to conceal ?himsejif forfe,ar of
the Inquisition j that he would be very glad of such on oppor-
tunity .to make his escape, .with Jus wife and two daughters j
.and if I would let them go :to my island, and #llot them #
plantation, he would give them a small >stock to begin withj.
for the officers of the Inquisition had.seized all t*\$ ejects and
-estate, and he had nothing left but a Jittle household stuff, and
two slaves: and," adds he, *' ;though J (hate his principles, yet
J would not have him fall into their /hands,, for he will be as*
suredly burned alive if he does."
il granted this presently, and joined any jEngVishrnarvwith
them; and we concealed .the jman, #nd his wife andtdaughters,
on board our ship, till the sloop put ,out to :go to sea; and
-then having,put all ;their goods on board some time <befor,e,
we put them on board the sloop after she was got rout of >the
hay.
Our seaman-was mightily pleased .with this new part&er \
and their stocks, indeed, were much alike rich jn .tools, :(ift
preparations, .and a farm $ hut nothing ito begin with, except
as above: however, they .carried aver with them, wAiich was
worth all the .rest, some ^materials for planting sugar-canes,
-with iome plants of .canes, which he, 1 mean the Portugal
man, understood very well
Among'the rest oftthe supplies sent my tenants in the,island,
Lsent them by ;the sloop jthreeimilch,cows and Ave calves, ajxmt
twenty-two :hogs among them, tthxee sows t»ig with pig, tw.o
mares, and a *stone-daorse. For my Spaniards, ftoeprding ^o
my promise, I engaged three sPoriugaJ womeji jto go, am.4 re-
commended 'it tto them to marjry ;fehem, #nd use tjfeem kkidly.
I oould have procured imore .woman, Jaui I ^m^n^ered .tfeat
*hc poor prosecuted *r»an had £i«o jdaughte/s, .aajl ibat t£er«
were but five of the Spaniards that-wanted y the rest had w>ea
of their own, though in another country.
All this cargo arrived safe^ and, as you may easily suppose,
were very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now,, with
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides, little
children, of which there were a great many. I found; letters,
at London from them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came
back to England, of which I shall also take some notice: im*
mediately.
I have now done with, the island, and all manner of dis>
course about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memoran-
dums would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and
expect to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by
his own harms, much less by those of other men> to beware
of the like; not cooled by almost forty years miseries and dis*
appointments; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expecta*
tion, nor made cautious by afflictions and distress beyond
imitation.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a marr
at full liberty has to go ta the turnkey at Newgate,- and den
sire him to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve-
him* Had I taken a small vessel from England, and went
directly to the island $ had I loaded her, as I did the other
vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation, and for my
people $ took a patent from the government here to have se?
cured my property, in subjection only to that of England;
had I carried over cannon and ammunition, servants, and
people to plant, and taken possession of the place, fortified and
strengthened it in the name of England, and increased it with
people, as I might easily have done; had I then settled ray-
Self there, and sent the ship back loaden with good rice, as {
might also have done in six months time, and ordered my
friends to have fitted her out again for our supply; had I
done this, and staved there myself, I had at least acted like a
man of common sense: but I was possessed with a wandering
spirit, and scorned all advantages; I pleased myself with being
the patron of the people I placed there, and doing for them in
a kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal
monarch, providing for them as if I had been father of the
whole family, as well as of the plantation: but I never so
much as pretended to plant in the name of any government or
nation; or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people
subjects to any one nation -more than another; nay^ I aevei
*& touch as gave die place a name, but 4eft it, m i found it>
belonging to nobody, and the people under no discipline of
government but my own; who, though I had influence over
them as a father and benefactor, had no authority or power to
act or command one way or other, farther than voluntary con-
sent moved them to comply: yet even this, had I stayed there,
would have done well enough; but as I rambled from them>
and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of
them was by my partner's means, who afterwards sent another
sloop to the place, and who sent me word, though I had not
the letter till I got to London, several years after it was writ-
ten, that they went on but poorly, were malecontent with
their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that five
of the Spaniards were come away j and though they had not
been much molested by the savages, yet they had some skir*
mishes with them j and that they begged of him to write to
me to think of the promise I had made to fetch them awayy
that they might see their country again before they died.
But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed! and they that
will have any more of me must be content to follow me into
a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures,
wherein the justice of Providence may be duly observed; and
we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own
desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our affliction^
and punish us most severely with those very things which we
think it would be our utmost happiness to be:allowed in /
Whether I had business or no basiness, away I went: it is
no time now to enlarge upon the reason or absurdity of my
own conduct, but to come to the history; I was embarked for
the voyage, and the voyage I went.;
I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest!
popish clergyman; for let their opinion of us, and all other
heretics in general, as they call us, be as uncharitable as it
may, I verily believe this man was very sincere, and wished
the good of all men: yet I believe he was upon the reserve
in many of his expressions, to prevent giving me offence; for
I scarce heard him once call on the blessed Virgin, or mention
St. Jago or his guardian angel, though so common with the
rest of them: however, I say, 1 had not the least doubt of
his sincerity and pious intentions on his own part; and I am
firmly of. opinion, if the rest of the popish missionaries were
like him, they would strive to visit even the poor Tartars and
Laplanders, where they have nothing to give them, as well as
covet to flock to India, Persia, China, &c. the most wealthy
of the heathen countries $ for if they expected to bring no
gains to their church by it, it may well be admired how they
came to admit the Chinese Confucius into the calendar of
the Christian saints. But this by the bye.
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked
rne leave to go thither; being still, as he observed, bound
never to finish any voyage he began. How happy had it been
for me if I had gone with him! But it was too late now: all
things Heaven appoints for the best: had I gone with him, I
had never had so many things to be thankful for, and the
reader had never heard of the second part of the travels and
adventures of* Robinson Crusoe j so I must here leave exclainv-
ing at myself, and go on with my voyage. From die Brasik
We made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good
Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course generally
south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and
cross events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear
the land was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
> Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo
on board, who was to direct all her motions after she arrived
at the Cape, only being limited to a certain number of days
for stay, by charterparty, at the several ports she was to go to.
This was none of my business, neither did I meddle with it;
my nephew, the captain, and the supercargo, -adjusting all
those things between them as they thought fit.
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take
in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of
Goromandel. We were indeed informed that a French man
of war of fifty guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone
for the Indies; and as I knew we were at war with France,
I had some apprehensions of them; but they went their own
way, and* we heard no more of them.
I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of
places, journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, lati-
tudes, trade-winds, &c.; it is enough to name the ports and
places which we touched at, and what occurred to us upon
our passing from one to another. We touched first at the
island of Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce
and treacherous, and very well armed with lances and bows,
^hich they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very
\yell with them awhile; they treated us very civilly; and, for
some trifles which" we gave them, such as knives, scissars, &c.
they brought us eleven good fat bullocks of a middling size.
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here some time after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always too
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the east
side of the island that we went on shore one evening > and^
the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance!
but as we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly
used, we thought ourselves in no danger j but when we saW
the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them
up at a distance from us > which, it seems, is a mark in that:
country, not only of a truce and friendship, but when it is ac-
cepted, the other side sets up three poles or boughs, which i*'
a signal that they accept the truce too; but then this is *
known condition of the truce, that you are not to pass be-
yond their three poles, towards them, nor they to come past
your three poles, or boughs, towards you j so that you are
perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the space be-
tween your poles and theirs is allowed like a market for free
converse, traffic, and commerce, When you go there, yatf
must not carry your weapons with you; and if they come in?
to that space, they stick up their javelins and lances all at the'
first poles, and come on unarmed j but if any,,violence is of":
fered them, and the truce- thereby broken, away they run to'
the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce is at •
an end. r;;J
It happened one evening when we went on shore, that^
a greater number of their people came down than usual, but; J
all very friendly and civil •, and they brought several kinds o?:
provisions, for which we satisfied them with such toys as wei-
had j their women also brought us milk and roots, and several}
things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and we made-
us a little tent or hut of some boughs of trees, and lay on shores
all night. <•"
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well
satisfied to lay on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at an-;
anchor about a stone cast from the land, with two men in he*'
to take care of her, X made one of them come on shore:* ana*
getting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the. .boat*;
I spread the. tail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under tbe<
cover of the, branches of the trees all night in the boat. r ^
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of on*
tien make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's
sake, to bring the boat in, and come and heJp them, for they
Were all like to be murdered j at the same time I heard the
fire of five muskets, which was the number of the guns they
had, and that three times overj for, it seems, the natives here
Were not so easily frightened with guns as the savages were in
America, where I had to do with them. All this while I knew
ftot what was the matter, but rousing immediately from sleep
with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust<in, and resolved,
With three fuzees we had on board, to land and assist our
men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, hut our men were in too
*nuch haste? for being come to the shore, they plunged into
the water, to get to the boat with all the expedition they could,
being pursued by between three and four hundred men. Our
*nen were but nine in all, and only five of them- had fuzees
with them; the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but they
Were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enough
too, three of them being very ill wounded; and that which
Was still worse was, that while we stood in the boat to takp
our men in, we were in as much danger as they were in on
shore j* for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick* that
We were glad to barricade the side of the boat up with the
benches, and two or three loose boards, which, to our great
satisfaction, we had by mere accident in the boat. And yet,
had it been day-light, they are, it seems, such, exact niarKs-
*«en, that if they could have seen but the least part of any of
% they would have been sure of us. We had, by the light of
the moon, a little sight of them,'as they stood pelting us from
the shore with darts and arrows; and having got ready our
fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we could hear, by the
cries of some of them, had wounded several j however, they
stood thus in battle array on the shore till break of day, which
W& -suppose was that they might see the better to take their
ahn at us.
'In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh
P^r anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up
hi the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were tp hit
a bird in a tree with small'shot. We ma^e signals of distress
tothe^hip, which, though she rode a Jeague off, yet my nephew
^-captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving Uje
Posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty
**11 understood «us> and weighing anchor yrift all speed, he
stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship/and then-seOJ
another boat, with ten hands in her, to assist us: but we-called
to them not to come too near, telling them what condition^
were in; however, they stood in near to us, and one of .tl#
men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping oi#
boat between him and the enemy, so that they could not pe**
fectly see him, swam on board us, and*made fast the Jjne to4$
boat; upon which we slipped out a little cable, and leaving
our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of the arrowsJ
we all the while lying close behind the barricado. we.Ji^
made.
As 'soon as we were got from between the ship and the
shore, that we could lay her side to the shore, she run along
just by them, and poured in a broadside among thern loaded
with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stu&
besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among
them. - ( -'
When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time
to examine into the occasion of this fray j and, indeed, ^r
supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put.me upon
it; for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not haV6
touched us after we had made* a truce, if we had not don$
something to provoke them to it. At length it came out tbi*
an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk,, had brotfgnt
it within our poles', and a young woman withi-heiv who $1$°
brought some roots or herbs j and while' the old won**11,
(whether she was mother to the young woman or no thtf
could not tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men offer^
some rudeness to the Wench that was with her, at which 0
old woman made a great noise: however, the seaman -wou'd
not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's sigl1*
among the trees, it being almost dark: the old woman* w^
away without her, and, as we may suppose, made an oxxtCSl
among the people she came from; who, upon notice, rais^
this great army upon us in three or four hours; and it-^5
great odds but wo had all been destroyed. , >rti
One of our men* was killed with a lance thrown at'him juS
at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tenttl^/
had made: the rest came off free, all but the fellow whofT#&
the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough fpr<illlS
black mistress, for we could not hear what became of^him j*
great while. We lay Upon the shore two days after, thoug
the wind presented, and made* signals for. him; and mads ?af
boat sail up shore and down shore several leagues^ but in v^0j
«o we were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had suf-
fered for it, the loss had. been less.
'MI could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on
shore once more, to try if I, could learn any tiling of him or
them; it was the third night after the action that I had a great
mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we had
done, and how the game stood on the Indians' side. I was
careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again >
but I ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I went
with had been under my command, before I engaged in a
thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was brought into by
iti without design.
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship,
besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours
before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood
drawn up in the evening before: I landed here, because my
design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they had quitted
the field, and if they had left any marks behind them of the
mischief we had done them j and I thought if we could sur-
prise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man again,
toy way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other.
We neither saw or heard anybody stir when we landed: and
We marched up, one body at a distance from the other, to the
place; but at first could see nothing, it being very dark.}, till
by; and by our boatswain, who led the first party, stumbled and
fell over a dead body* This made them halt awhile; for
knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place
Where the Indians had stood, they waited for my coming up
there. We concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, which
We knew would be in less than an hour, when we could easily
discern the havoc we had made among them. We told thirty-
two bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead j
some had an arm, and some a leg shot off, and one his head j
those that were wounded, we suppose, they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all
We could come to the knowledge of, I was resolved for going
°a board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that
they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where
these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go
along with them; and if they could find them, as they still
fencied they should, they did not doubt of getting a good
•booty; and it might be they might find Tom Jeffly there?
that was the man's name we had lost. j
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well euogg^
•what answer to have given them; for I should have command*
*ed them instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard $r
;for us to run, who had a ship, and ship-loading in our &&$&
and a voyage to make which depended very much upon W*
dives of the men;, but as they sent me word they were resbn£
ed to go, and only asked me and my company to go along ^
ithem, I positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting °fl
the ground, in order to go to the boat. One„or two of &&
men began to importune me to go f and when I refused, begf
to grumble, and say that they were not under my command;
and they would go. /' Come Jack," says one of the Wp
'«' will you go with ijie ?—I'll go for one." Jack said »*'
would,—and then another,—and, in a word, they all left tf#
but one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boak
So the supercargo and I, with the third man, went back tot»e
•boat, where -we told them we would stay for them, and ta^
<care to take in as many of them as should be left; for I &$
them it was a mad thing they were going about, and suppose?
most of them would run the fate of Tom Jcffry.
They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they wool?
fcome off again, and they would take care, &c j so away they
•went. I entreated them to consider the ship, and the voyage*
that their lives were not their own, and that they were entrusted
•with the voyage, in some measure j that if they miscarried
the ship might be lost for want of their help, and that thejj
could not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well
'have talked to the mainmast of the ship $ they were mad.upo^
:their journey, only they gave me good words, and begged Jj
would not be angry; that they did not doubt but they would
be back again in about an hour at farthest; for the India1?
town, they said, was not above half a mile off, though they
found it above two miles before they got to it.
Well, they all went away; and though the attempt was d<#r
perate, and such as none but madmen would have gone abou^
yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily flS
boldly: they were gallantly armed, for they had every mao^
fuzee or musket, a bayonet and a pistol; some of them <h$*
broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the boatsw^
and two more had pole-axes; besides all which, they had arnoP£
-them-thirteen hand-grenadoes: bolder fellows, and better.pr**
vided, never went about any wicked work in the world. *
^ When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and
tiiey were in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a cir-
cumstance, which none of them were aware of, set them on
fire with revenge, and made devils of them all. When they
came to the few Indian houses which they thought had been
'the town, which was not above half a mile off/ they were under
a great disappointment, for there were not above twelve or
thirteen houses -, and where the town was, or how big, they
knew not. They consulted, therefore, what to do, and were
*ome time before thfcy could resolve j for if they fell upon
these, they must cut all their throats, and it was ten to one
*>Ut some of them might escape, jt being in the night, though
the moon was up j and if one escaped, he would run away and
*aise all the town, so they should have a whole army upon
them: again, on the oilier hand, if they went away and left
those untouched, for the people were all asleep, they could not
tell which way to look for the town: however, the last was
the best advice; so they resolved to leave them, and look for
the town as well as they could. They went on a little way,
and found a cow tied to a tree; this, they presently concluded,
would be a good guide to them; for, they said, the.cow cer-
tainly belonged to the town before them, or the town behind
them j and if they untied her, they should see which way shs
>ent 5 if she went back, they had nothing to say to her; but,
*f she went forward, they would follow her: so they cut the
t-ord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on
before them, directly to the town; which, as they reported,
Consisted of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some
°f these they found several families living together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep
Could make them: and, first, they called another council, to
consider what they had. to do; and, in a word, they resolved
to divide themselves into three bodies, and so set three houses
*n fire in three parts of the town $ and as the men came out,
to seize them and bind them, (if any resisted, they need not be
*sked what to do then), and so to search the rest of the houses
*or plunder: but they resolved to march silently first through
the town, and see what dimensions it was of, and if they might
Venture upon it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would
future upon them: l>ut while they were animating one
another to the woric, three of them, who were a little before
the rest, called out aloud to them, and told them that they had
&mnd Tom Jeffry; they ill ran tip to the place* where titey
found the, poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm> and hi*
throat cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where
they found sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians, wb°
had been concerned in the fray with us before, and two-.-&
three of them wounded with our shot; and our men four*1
they were awake, and talking one to another in that hou&
but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged therfl>
as before, that they swore to one another they would, be fjj'
venged, and that not an Indian that came into their kan»*
should have any quarter -t and to work they went immediately
and yet not so madly as might be expected from tho rage $W
fury they were in. Their first care was to get something th*j
would soon take fire; but, after a little search*, they found-tW1
would be to no purpose; for most of the houses were. k>$f
and thatched with flags and rushes, of which the country is fu^J
so they presently made some wild-lire, as we call it, by wetting
a little powder in the palm of their hands j and in a quarter01
an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places, and p^'
ticiilarly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed-7
As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poop frightened ere**
tures began to rush out to sare their lives, but met with tfcetf
fate in the attempt; and especially at the door, where the/
drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one ot-Vf°
with his pole-axe; the house being large, and many in it> $e
did not care to go in, but called for a hand-grenado, and thi«f
it among them, which at first frightened them, but, when^
burst, made such havoc among them that they cried out in]3
hideous manner. In short, most of the Indians who were '&
the open part of the house were killed, or hurt with the-grefl'
ado, except two or three more who pressed to the door, fwhte*
the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets on^he
muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all that came in th^
way: but there was another apartment in the house, wh^
the prince or king, or whatever he was, and several othe^
were; and these were kept in till the house, which wasTh/
ihjs time all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and they wef0
smothered together.
All ihis while they fired not a gun, because they would uot
waken the people faster than they could master them;-.but't^
fire began to waken them fast enough, and* our fellows wei"0
glad to keep a little together in bodies; for the fire grb^'*?
raging, all the houses being made of light combustible'st^'
ihat they could hardly bear the street between them; and theif
business was to follow the fire, for the Surer execution: a£
fast as the fire either forced the people out of those houses
which were burning, or frightened them out of others, our
^people were ready at their doors to knock them in the head,
^till calling and hollowing one to another to remember Tom
JefFry.
While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy*
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it
being night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew, the cap*
tain, who was roused by his men, seeing such a fire, was very
uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or what danger I
was in, especially hearing the guns too, for by this time they
began to use their fire-anns; a thousand thoughts oppressed
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what would be-
come of us; and, at last, though he could ill spare any more
men, yet not knowing what exigence we might be in, he takes
another boat, and with thirteen men and himself comes on
shore to me.
*He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat,
with no more than two men; and though he was glad that we
'Were well, yet he was in the same impatience with, us to know
what was doing j for the noise continued, and die flame in-
creased; in short, it was next to an impossibility for any man in
the world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened,
Or their concern for the safety of the men: in a word, the cap-
tain told me he would go and help his men, let what would
come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the
safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the interest of the
owners and merchants, &c. and told him I and the two* men
would go, and only see if we could at a distance learn what
was like to be the event, and come back and tell him. It was
all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest be-
! fore; he would go, he said; and he only wished he had but left
terr men in the ship; for he could not think of having his men
lost for want of help j he had rather lose the ship, the voyage,
and his life and all; and away he went.
i I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to per-
suade them not to go \ so, in short, the captain ordered two
men to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more,
leaving the long-boat at an anchor j and that when they came
back, she men should keep the two boats, and six more come
after us: so that he left only sixteen men in die ship \ for the
^hole blip's company consisted of sixty-five men,: whereo*
two were lost in the late quarrel which brought thi* mischief
Being now on the march, you may be sure-we felt little* of
the ground we trod on? and being guided by-the-fire* we k^
no path, but went directly to the place of the flame* If the
noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of th&
poor people were now quite of another' nature, and filledn3'
with horror. I must confess I was never at the sacking a*city*
or at the taking a town by-storm y I had heard of Oliver Crcxn*
well taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and;killing-man* woman, aod"
child! and I had read of Count Tilly sacking-tbe=cityof Mag^
tlebourg, and cutting the throats of twenty-two.thousand of a#
sexes; but I never had an idea of the-thing itself* before> noC
is: it possible* to describe iU or the horror that was. upon Q***
minds at hearing it. However, we went on> and afclengd*
came to the town, though there was no entering the streets Q*
it for the fire. The first object we met with was the rpin&w
a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it!, for the house-was^cpitf
sumed; and just before^ it, plain now to be seen by tbeulight
of the fire, lay four men and three women killed* and*, as ^
thought, on$ or two more lay in the heap- among the> fire*- iP
sliort, there were such instances of a rage-altogether barbarous
and of a fury something beyond what wan human* that; V(*
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it 3 or if-the^
were the authors of it> we thought-they, ought tpf be evftryoi?-?
of them put to the worst of deaths. But this was" not all?
we saw the fire increased forward, and the cry went on ju*t #
the fire went on -, so that we were in the utmost confusion
We advanced a little way farther; and, behold, to our astortf
i^hment, three naked women, and crying in a mosii dread&*
manner, came flying as if they had wings, and after then) $&
teen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and conster*
nation, with three of pur English butchers in the .rear* wji0
when they could not overtake them, fired in among them,, and
one that was killed by their shot fell down in our sight* "Whpft
the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and th^t>w#
would murder them as well as. those that pursued them iT tjiey
set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, and-W#
of them fell down, as, if already dead* with the. fright.: , .,
My very soul shrunk within me, and my< blood ran chiU ^'
my veins, when I saw this.: and I believe had the three Engf
lish sailors that pursued them come, on, I had made our m^
kill them all: however, we took some ways,to let tjie poof
flying creatures know that we would not hurt them j and i*ft*
Mediately tbey caxne up to us, and keeling down, witb-tjieir
hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them,
tyhich. we let the,ra know. we Avould; whereupon they crept
^together iq a huddje close behind us, as for protection. I left
jtty men drawn up together, and charging then; tq hurt no-
body, but> if possible, to get at some of our people, and see,
^hat devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to
fy, and to command them off; assqring them that if they
s*ayed till daylight, they would have an hundred thousand
tyen about their ears: I say, I left them, and went among
^ose flying people, taking only two of our rnen with me; and.
*here was indeed a piteous spectacle among, therp ;, some of
tyem had their feet terribly burned, with trampling and run-
*tfng through the fire, others their hands burjied; one of the
^omea had fallen down in the fire, and was very milch burn-
H before she could get out again; and two or three of the
*&eq had cuts in their backs and thighs, from our men, pur-
ging; and another was shot through the body> and died,
^fhjle I was there.
. I would faiq have learned what the occasion of all this was,
W I cpqld not. understand one word tbey said j though, by
slgns, I perceived some of them knew not what was the oc-
c3sion themselves. I was so terrified in my thoughts at this
°Utrageous attempt that I .could not stay there, but went back
to my; own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the
taMm, through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and.
{}M; an end to it, cost what it would: accordingly, as I came
^ck'to my men, I told them my resolution, and commanded
^m to follow me -, when at the very moment came four of
°**r m^n, with the boatswain at their, head, roving over heapsf
?? bodies they had filled, all covered with blood and dust, as.
}(they wanted more people to massacre, when our men hol-
J°Wed to them as loud as they could hollow $ and with much,
Ho one of them made them hear, so that they knew who we,
Avere, and came up, to us.
As soon as the bqatswain saw us, he s<3t up a hollow hke a
*Qut of triumph, for having, as he thought, inor6 help come;
,^d without waiting to hear me, " Captain," says he, " noble
Captain! I am glad you are come; we are not ha)f done yet:
Sjanous hell-hound dogs! 1*11 kill as many of them as poor
*om has hairs upon his head: we have sworn to spare nope of
%tri> Well root out the very nation of them from the earAdi:
^S; thus, he ran on, out of breath too with action, and Wpuld
^glve^usie^yetp speak ^wptd.#
At last,, raising my voice, that I might silence him & fittte,
€( Barbarous dog!" said I, " what arp you doing? I won*
have one creature touched more, upon pain of death: J,charge
you, upon your life,'to stop your hahds> and stand still lierfr
or you are a dead man this minute/*—<€* Why, Sir," says he>
"do you know what you do, or what they have done I Jf
you want a reason for what they have donej come hither j
and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging, with hi*
throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another tin#
would have been forward enough; but I thought they h#*
carried their rage too far,, and remembered Jacob's words ta
his sons Simeon and Levi—" CursedT>e their anger, for it was
fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel.*' But I had no\V a
new task upon my hands; for when the men I carried, with
me saw the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to re-
strain them as I should have had with the others; nay, PJ
nephew himself fell in with them, and told me, in theic.hea?*
ing, that he was only concerned for fear of the men beifl£
overpowered; and as to the people, he thought not one P*
them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves wiKJ
the murder of the poor man, and that they ought to be.used
like murderers: upon these words, away ran el^ht of ray men*
-with the boatswain and his crew, to. complete their tfop^/
work; and I, seeing It quite out of my power to restrain \\\etfl>
came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the sight*
much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches
that Tell into their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercarg0
and two men, and with these walked back to the boat. 'P
was a very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to veritut0
back as it were alone 5 for as it began now to be almost &&P
and the alarm had ran over the country, there stood abbtft
forty men, armed with lances and bows, at the little jjace
where the twelve or thirteen houses stood/mentioned before'
but by accident I missed the place, and came directljr to ttd
s'ea-side, and by the time I got to the sea-side it was brbad*
day: immediately I took the pinnace and went on board, afl*
sent her back to assist the' men in what might happen.
I observed, about the time that I came to the boat sidf>
that the fire was pretty well out, and the noise abated j but j1*
about half an hour after I got on board I heard-a volley °*
ciur men's fire-arms, and saw a great smoke*; this, as Iunde^
•stood afterwards, was our men falling upon themen who, **
I said, stood at the few houses on the way, of whom thev
killed sixteen or seventeen, and set all the houses on tire, but
didnot meddle with the women or children.
'' By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace,
our men began to appear -, they came dropping in, not-in two
bodies as they went, but straggling here and there in such a
manner, that a small force of resolute men might have cut
them all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole
country $ and the men were surprised, and so frightened, that
I believe an hundred of them would have fled at the sight of
but five of our men: nor in all this terrible action was there
a man that made any considerable defence $ they were so sur-
prised between the terror of the fire and the sudden attack of
our men in the dark, that they knew not which way to turn
themselves \ for if they fled one way, they were met by one
party 5 if back again, by another; so that they were every
where knocked down: nor did any of our men receive the
least hurt,- except one that sprained his foot, and another that
had one of his hands burned.
"I'was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, in-
deed, with all the men, in my mind, but with him in parti-
cular, as well for his acting so out of his duty, as commander
of the ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as
in his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage of his blind
lien, in so bloody and cruel an enterprize. My nephew
answered me very respectfully, but told me that when he saw
tiie^ body of Ihe poor seaman whom they had murdered in so
cruel and barbarous a manner, he was not master of himself,
^either could he govern his passion; he owned he should not
have done so, as he was commander of the ship; but as he
Was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. As
for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and
they knew it well enough 5 so they took no notice of my dis-
like. ,
The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of
,|tt Our men differed in the account of the number they had
killed 5 but according to the best of their accounts, put all
together, they killed or destroyed about? one hundred and fifty
people, men, women, and children, and left,not a house stand-
Jtig in the town. As for the poor fellow Tom JefFry, as he
J^s quite dead, (for his throat was so cut that his head was
Mf off,) it would do him no service to bring him away j so
tttey only took him down from the tree, where he was hang-
tog- by one hand.
vol. n. H
* However just our men thought this action, I was against
them in'it, and I always, after that time, told them God
would blast the voyage 5 for I looked upon all die blood they
shed that night to be murder in them: for though it is true
that they had killed Tom JefFry, yet JefFry was the aggressor,
had broken the truce/ and had violated or debauched a young
woman of theirs, who came down to them innocently, and on
the faith of the public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were after-
wards on board. He said it was true that we seemed to
break the truce, but really had not; and that the war was
begun the night before by the natives themselves, who had
shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just provo-
cation j so that as we were in a capacity to fight them now,
we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner; that though the poor man
had taken a little liberty with the wench, he ought not to have
been murdered, and that in such a villanous manner $ and
that they did nothing but what .was just, and what the laws oi
God allowed to be done to murderers.
One would diink this should have been enough to have
warned us against going on shore amongst heathens and bar-
barians : > but it is impossible to make mankind wise but at
their own expense $ and their experience seems to be always
of most use to diem when it is dearest bought.
We were now bound to the gulph of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat: but the
chief of the supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal 5
where, if he missed his business outward-bound, he was to g°
•up to China, and return to the coast as he came home.
The first disaster that befel us was in the gulph of Persia,
where five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side
of the gulph, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all
killed or carried away into slavery j the rest of the boat's creW
were not able to rescue them, and had but just time to get off
their boat. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution
, of Heaven in diis case: but die boatswain very warmly told
me, he thought I weht fardier in my censures than I could
show any warrant for in scripture 5 and referred to Lukexiii. 4*
where, our Saviour intimates that those men on whom the
tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans:
but that which put me to silence in the case was, that not on$
of these five men who were now lost were of diose who went
©n shore to the massacre of Madagascar, so I. always called ft>
though our men could not bear to hear the word massacre with
any patience.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse
consequences than I expected j and the boatswain, who had
been the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time,
and told me he found that I brought that affair continually
upon the stage j that I made unjust reflections upon it, and
had used the men very ill on that account, and himself in par-
ticular \ that as I was but a passenger, and had no command
in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged
to bear it $ that they did not know but I might have some ill
design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for
it when tfiey came to England; and that, therefore, unless I
would resolve to have done with#it, and also not to concern
myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would
leave the ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail with
me among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then
told him, that I confessed I had all along opposed the mas-
sacre of Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions, spoken
my mind freely about it, though not more upon him than any
of the rest j that as to my having no command of the ship,
that was true 5 nor did I exercise any authority, only took the
liberty of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned
us all; and what concern I had in the voyage was none of his
business j that I was a considerable owner in the ship $ in that
claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even farther than I
had done, and would not be accountable to him or any one
^else j and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair had
been oyer. We were at this time in the road at Bengal j and
oeing willing to see the place, I went on shore with the super-
cargjo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself -, and towardseven-
ing was preparing to go on board, when one of the men came
to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself to
come down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on
board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise I was
in at so insolent a message ^ and I asked the man who bade
Vim deliver that message to me? He told me the cockswain.
1 said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them kn6w he
had delivered his message, and that I had.given him no answer
"to it. #'
I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told
him the story \ adding, what 1 presently foresaw^ that there
Would be a mutiny in the ship \ and entreated him to go im-
mediately on board the ship in an Indian boat,, and acquaint tlie
captain of it. But I might have spared this intelligence, io£
before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was effected,
on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all
the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came
up, and desired to speak with the captain 5 and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue, and repeating all he had said
to me, told the captain, in a few words, that as I was now
gone peaceably on shore, they were loath to use any violence
with me, which, if J had not gone on shore, they would otheY-
ways have done, to oblige me to have gone; they therefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
in the ship under his command, they would perform it well
and faithfully > but if I would not quit the ship, W the cap fain
oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
farther with him 5 and at that word all, he turned his face to-
ward the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on
between them, at which all the seamen, being got together,
there cried out, one and all! one and all!
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind \ and though he was surprised, you may, be
sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would con-
sider of the matter; but that he coujd do nothing in It till tie,
had spoken to me about it. He used sonie. argurhents \yith
them to show them the unreasonableness and injustice of the ,
thing: but it was all in vain) they swore, and shook hand?
round before his face, that they would all go on shore, unleis
he would engage to them not to suffer me to cortie any rtfbr~
on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him> who knew his bbllgatiort
to me, and did not know how I might take it: so he began
to talk smartly to them j told them that 1 was a very Consi-
derable owner of the ship, and that, in justice, he could not
put me out of my own house 5 that this was next door to ser-
ving me as the famous pirate Kidd had done, who made i
mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore oh an uninhabited
island, and ran away with the ship j that let therri go into
what ship they would, if ever they came to England again tf
would cost them very de3f j that the ship was mine, and £hat
he could hot put me out of it; and that he would rather Ibse
the ship and the voyage too than disoblige me so much j so
they might do as they pleased: however* he would go on shbr£
and talk with me, arid invited the boatswain tb go with hint,
and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with me. But
tliej alj rejected the proposal, and said they would have no-
thing, tP do WM me any more j and if I came on board, they
woqld all go on shore, <c Well/' said'the captain, rr if you are
all of tin's mind, let me go on shore and talk with him.'* So
awayhecame to me with this account, a little after die mes-
sage had been brought to me from the cockswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I
was not without; apprehensions that they would confine him hy
violence, set sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had
been stripped naked in a remote country, having nothing to
help myself; in short, I had been in a worse case than when I
was alone in the island. But they had not come that length, \%
seems, to my satisfaction i and when my nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hands
that they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered
to come Q» board, I told him he should not be concerned at it
a'j all, for I would stay on shore: I only desired Jie would take
care and seqd me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to
England as w$ll & I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there
was no way to help it but to comply: so, in short, he went on
board the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had
yielded to their importunity, and had sent for his goods frorn
1 oq, board the ship j so that the- matter was over in a few hours ^
the men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what
course, I should steer.
I was^now alone in the most remote part of the world, as
I think J may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by
sea farther off from England than I was at my island > only, it
is true, I might travel here by land over the great Mogul's
country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea,
up the gulph of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over
the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderpon j from thence
by.eea again to Italy, and so over-land into France $ and this
pyii together might at least be a full diameter of the globe, or
fnore. ,
X had another way before me, which was to wait for some
English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on
the island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them far Eng-
land. But as I came hither without any concern with the
English East India Coropany> so it would be difficult to go
from hence without tfeeir licence, unless with great favour of
the captains of the ships, or the Company's factors, and to both
I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the mortification to see the Ship'set sail without
me j a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except when pirates running away with the ship, "and
setting those that would not agree with their vlllariy on shore-
Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways; however,'my
nephew left me two servants, or rather one companion and 'one
servant 5 the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged
to go with me, and the other was his own servant. I took
me also a good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman,
where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely
enough entertained: and that I might not be said to run
rashly upon any thing, I stayed here above nine months con-
sidering what course to take, and how to manage myself. I
had some English goods with me of value, and a considerable
sum of money, my nephew furnishing me with a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I had/>ccasion,
that I might not be straitened, whatever might happen. ^;
I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I origin-
ally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which,
of all other things, were the most proper for me, in my present
circumstances 5 because I could always carry my whole estate
about me. ,
After, a long stay here, and many proposals made for my
return to England, but none falling out to ray mind, the Eng-
lish merchant who lodged with me, and whom I had contracted
an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one morning*
"Countryman," says he, " I have a project to communicate
to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for ought 1
know, suit Avith yours also, when you s,hall have thoroughly
considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and I by
my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our
own country \ but it is in a country where, by us who under-
stand trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got.
If you will put lOOOl. to my lOOpl. we will hire a ship here,
the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll gQ a trading voyage to China: for what
should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion,
rolling round and round; all the creatures of God, heavenly
bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent; why should we be
idle} There are no drones in the world but men * why should
we be of that number ?*' ,,
Hiked this proposal very well, and the more because it seem-
ed to be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly
a fanner. I will not say but that I might, by my loose un-
hinged circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a'proposal for
trade, or indeed any thing else 3 whereas, otherwise; trade was
noqe of my element. However, I might perhaps sajwith
some truth, that if trade was not my element, rambling was,
and no proposal for seeing any part of the world which I had
never seen before could possibly come amiss to me.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to;
our minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to
get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary
to govern the voyage and' manage the sailors which we should
pick up there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain,
and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast
men. With these we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they were, to make up.
There are so many travellers who have wrote the history of
their voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little
diversion to any body to give a long account of the places we
went to, and the people who inhabit there; these things I leave
to others, and refer the reader to those journals and travels of
Englishmen, of which many, I find,: are published, and more
promised every day; it is enough for me to tell you that we
made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for
opium and some arrack; the first a commodity which bears a
great price among the Chinese, and which, at that time, wan B
much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made
a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to
Bengal; and I was very well satisfied with my adventure. I
observe that our people in England often admire how officers
which the Company send into India, and the merchants which
generally stay there, get such very great estates'as they do, and
sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thousand pounds
at a time; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall se0 so much
farther into it, when we consider the innumerable ports -and
places where they have a free commerce, that it will be none 5
and much less it will be, so when we consider that at those
places and ports, where the English ships come, there is such
great and constant demands for the growth of all othercountries,
that there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market
abroad for the goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so mucit
money by my first adventure, and such an. insight into the
method of getting more, that had 1 been twenty years younger,
I should have been terapted to have stayed here, and sought
no further for making any fortune j but what was all this to a
man upwards of threescore, that was rich enough, and came
abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world
than a covetous desire of gaining by it? And, indeed, I think
it is with great justice I now call it restless desire, for it war so-
When I was at home, I was restless to go abroad $ and when I
was abroad, I was restless to be at home. I-say, what was this
gain to me? I was rich -enough already, nor had I any uneasy
desires about getting more money; and therefore the profit of
tbe voyage to me was of no great force for the prompting.me
forward to farther undertakings; hence I thought that by this*
voyage I had made no progress at all, because I was come back*
as I might call it, to the place from whence I came, as to a
home: whereas my eye, Which, like that which Solomon speaks
of, was never satisfied with seeing, was still more desirous of
wandering and seeing, I was come into a part of the world
which I was never in before, and that part, in particular, which
I had heard much of, and was resolved to see as much of it as 1
could; and then I thought I might say I had seen all the world
that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions: I do
not name this to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were
the most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchant's
life; who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wis-
dom to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is like
to get the most money by. My imjw friend kept himself to the
nature of the thing, and would have been content to have gone
like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and
forward, provided he could, as he called it, find his account in
it. On the other hand, mine was the notion of a mad ram*
Wing boy, that never cares to see a thing twice over. But this
was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer
home* and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend,
who was always upon the search for business, proposed another
voyage to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a
loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; pkces,
indeed, where the Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly
to the Spaniards j though we went not so far, but to some
other, where they have not the whole power, as they have at
Batavia, Ceylon, &c.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief
difficulty was in bringing me to come into it: however, at last,
JtaBIBrSDN" CRJU50E. 153
rolling else* offering, and finding-that really stirring about and
tt^ling^ the profit being so great, and/ as I may say, certain,
had rnpre^ pleasure* in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind
tjjan sitting still, which, to me especially* was the unhappiest
fart, of life, I resolved on this voyage too> which we made
V£ry successfully, touching at Borneo, and several, islands
whose names I i\a not remember, and came home in about
fiye months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried
them away to the Gulph 3 and making near five of one, we
really got a great deal of money.
My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me:
u Well now," said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my
indolent temper, <' is not this better than walking about Jiere,
like a man of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring
at the nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans ?'*•—" Why truly,"
says I, " my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert
to the. principles of merchandizing 3 but I must tell you," said
I, " by the way, you do not know what I am doing 3 for if I
once conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old as
I am I, shall harass you up and down the world till I tire
you 3 for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you
lierstilU"
But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after
this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a
coaster, not an European trader, of about two hundred tons
burthen 3 the men, as tbey pretended, having been so sickly,
that the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay
by at Bengal 5 and having, it seems, got money enough, or
being willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave
public notice he would sell hm ship. This came to my ears
before my new partner iieard of it, and I had a great mind
to buy it $ so I went to him, and told him of it. He con-
sidered awhile, for he was no rash man neither 3 but musing
some time, he replied, u She is a little too big; but, however,
we will have her/* Accordingly, we bought the ship, and
agreeing with the master, we paid for her, and took possession;
When we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if
we could, to join them with .those we had, for the pursuing
our business 3 but on a sudden, they having received, not their
-wages, but their share of the money, as we afterwards learnt,
not one of them was to be found; we inquired much about
them, and at length were told that they were all gone-together bv
land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and from
thence 10 travel to Surat> and go by sea to the Gulph of Persia
H2
Nothing had so much troubled me a good whiJe as that *
should miss the opportunity of going with them; for such 3
ramble, I thought, and in such company as would both have
guarded and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my
great design; and I should have both seen the world and
gone homewards too.i but I was much better satisfied a fc*v
days after, when I came to know what sort of tellows they
were; for, in short, their history was, that this man they called
captain was the gunner only, not the commander j that they
had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked on
shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the captain and
three of his men j and that after the captain was killed, these
men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
ship, which they did, and brought her to Bengal, leaving the
mate and live men more on shore j of whom hereafter.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess,
examine into things so exactly as we ought; for we never in-
quired any thing of the seamen, who would certainly have
faultered in their account, contradicted one another, and per-
haps contradicted themselves j or one how or other we should
have- had reason to have suspected them; but the man showed
us a bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoverr, or
some such name, for I suppose it was all a forgery, and called
himself by that name, and we could not contradict him.; and
withal having no suspicion.of the thing, we went through with
our bargain.
We picked up some more English sailors here after this,.and
some Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the
south-east for cloves, &c. that is to say,, among the Philippine
and Molucca isles; and, in short, not to fill. up.this part of my
story with, trifles, when what is to come is so remarkable, I
spent, from first to last, six years in this country, trading from
port to port, backward and forward, and with very good
success, and was now the last year with my new partner,
going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but
designing first to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great, while in the straits of Malacca, and among
the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult
seas, but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were
not able, by all our industry, to find out where it was. This
forced us to make some port, and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the
river of Cambodia *, for I had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson,, captain* not being willing to take the charge of
the ship upon myself* This rivet flies oa the north side of
the great bay or,gulph(which goes up to, SJam.,. While we
were.here,-and going often- on shore* foe refreshment, there
tomes to me one day an<Englishman,rand he was, it seems, a
gunner'snmate on board an English, East India ship which .rode
mthevsame river, ^up at or near the city of Cambodia; what
brought him hither we knew not j but he comes to me, and
speaking English, " .Sir," says he* "you area stranger to
me» and I to you, but J have something to .tell you that very
nearly concerns you.'"
I looked steadfastly at him a good while* and thought at first
I had known him, but I did not: "If.it very nearly concerns
me," said I> <f and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to
me?1'™'* I am moved/' says he, *' by the imminent danger
you are inland,-, for-ought I see, you have no knowledge of it."
~W- l-knov^no;danger I am in," says I, " but that my ship
is leaky,, and 1 cannot find it out;, but I intend to lay. her
aground.,.to-morrow, to see-if I can find it."—?* But, Sir,"
says he, 'V leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be
wiser thanlo Jay*your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what lhave to say to you: do you know, Sir," said he,
ff ,theto\vn*of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river?
And there sire.two large English ships about five leagues on
this side, and three Dutch."*—li Well," said I, " and what is
that to.rae-VW" Why, Sir," said.he, *f is it for a man that is.
upon such adventures as you are to come into a port and not
examine first what-- ships there are there, and whether he is
able to deal*with.them? I suppose you do not think you are
ai match for them?" I was amused very much at his discourse*
but. not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what he meant;
and L turned short upon him, and said, " Sir,. I- wish you
would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I'have-
to.be afraid.of-any. of, the Company's ships, or Dutch ships:
Lam no interloper, what can they have to say to me?" He.
looked like a man half angry, and half pleased, and pausing
awhile, but smiling,. " Well, Sir," says-he* "if you,think
yourself secure, you must take your chance j I am sorry your
fate should!:blind you against good advice ;' but assure yourself,
if you do not pnttoisea immediately* you will the very ne\t
tide be attacked by/five long-boats full of men, and perhaps,
if .you are-taken, you* will; be hanged for a pirate, and the par-
ticulars be examined.afterwards* I ^thought, Sir," added he,-
€f I should have: rnetNwith a bette%receptiou.-than this, for
doing you a piece of service of such importance."—"i can
never be ungrateful," said I, ft for any service, or to any man
that ofters me any kindness j but it is past my comprehension
what they should have such a design upon me for: however,
since you say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some
villanous design on hand against me, I will go on board thin
minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop die
leak, or if we can swim without stopping it: but, Sir," said
I, " shall I go awfty ignorant of the cause of all this } Can
you give me no further light into it >"—" I can tell you but
part of the story, Sir," says he; "but I have a Dutch seaman
here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to tell you
the rest -} but there is scarce time for it: but the short of the
story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know well
enough, viz. that you was with this ship at Sumatra j that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his
men 5 and that you, or some of those that were on board with
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates.
This is the sum of thd story, and you will all be seized as
pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little cere-
mony; for you know merchant ships show but little law to
pirates, if they get them into their power."—" Now you
speak plaiw English," said I, " and I thank you; and though
I know nothing that we have done like what you talk of, for
I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship j yet seeing
$uch a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to-mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard."—" Nay, Sir," says he,
"do not talk of being upon your guard; the best defence is to
be out of the danger $ if you have any regard for your life,
and the lives of all your men, put to sea, without (ail, at high
water j and as you have a whole tide before you, you will be
gone too far out before they can come down; for they will
come away at high water, and as they have twenty miles to
come, you will get near two hours of them by the difference
of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way j besides, as
they are only boats-, and not ships, they will not venture to fol-*
low you far out to sea, especially if it blows."—u Well," said
I, t( you have been very kind in this; what shall I do for you
to make you amends ?"—" Sir," says he, " you may iiot be
willing to make me any amends, because you may not be con-
vinced of the truth of it: I will make an offer to you; I have
nineteen months pay due to me on board the ship —-,
which I came out of England in 5 and the Dutchman that is
with me has seven months pay due to him 5 if you will inake
good aur-pay to us, we will go aion£ with you: if you .find
nothing more in it* we will desire nojnore j but if We do con-
vince .you^hat we have saved your lives, arid the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board,
and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side,
my^ partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck,
and called to me, with a great deal of joy, '< O ho! O ho! we
have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak !"•—" Say
you soi'- said I, "thank God; but weigh anchor then imme-
diately."—"Weigh!" says he, " What do you mean by
that} What is the matter?"—" Ask-no questions/* said I>
« but all hands to work, and weigh without losing a minute !"
He was surprised, but* however, he called the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and though the
tide was-not quite down, yet a little land bree2e blowing, We
stood out tb.fie&' Then I called him into the cabin, and told
him'the story $ • and we called in the men, and they told us the
rest of it J but as it took up a great deal of time, before we had
done 3 seaman* conies to the cabin-door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell uffwe were chased. "Chased V
says I?'M"by what >"—" By rive sloops, or boats/' says the
fellow,:)" if till :ofrmen."—" Very well/1 sard I; "then it is
apparent there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered
all our men to be called up,, and told them there was a design
to seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if
thay would stand by us, and by one another ,• the men answered
cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and die with us.
Then Tasked the captain what way he thought best for us to
manage a fight with them; for resist them I was resolved we
would, and that to the last drop. He said readily that the way
was to keep them off with our great shot as long as we could,
and then to fire at them with our small arras* to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer,
we should retire to our close quarters $ perhaps they had not
materials' to break open our b*lk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring two guns
to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and
load them witlr musket-ballets and small pieces of old iron,
and what came next to hand 5 and thus we made ready for
fight; but all tlus while we kept out to sea, with wind enough,
and could see the boats ata distance, being five large long-boats,
following us with all the sail they could make.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) out-sailed the rest, were near two leagues a-head o*
them, and gained upon us considerably, so that we found ttey
would come up with us; upon which we fired a gun without
ball, Jo intimate that they should bring to: and we. put out a
flag of truce, as a signal for parley; but they came crowding
after us, till they came within shot, when we took in our whi^
flag, they having made no answer to it, and hung out our red
flag, and fired at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this,
they came on till they were near enough to call to them with *
speaking trumpet which we had on board; so we called to them*
and bade them keep off, at their peril.
It was all one -} they crowded after us, and endeavoured to
come under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter 5 upon
which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended
upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the
ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside, when immediate])'
we fired five guns at them, one of which had been levelled so
true as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail, and run-
ning all to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking j &
she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat
crowd on after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular-
While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind,
being forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which
we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take ouf
the men: we called again to the foremost boat, and offered <l
truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was with
us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our stem*
Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase-guns, and fired again at her, but the shot
missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, artfl
came on j but the gunner getting quickly ready again; fired
among them a second time, one shot of which, though it missed
the boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily
see had done a great deal of mischief among them; but w<?
took no notice of that, weared the ship again, and brought
our quarter to bear upon them, and firing three guns more,Ve
found the boat was almost split to pieces j in particular, he*
rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away; so they
handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder. Bnf
to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns a*
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but we found
the boat was sinking, and some of the men already in the water-*
upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we Jiad
kept close by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men*
if they could, and save them from drowning, and immediately
come on board the ship with them, because we saw the rest of
the boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace followed
their orders, and took up three men, one of whom was just
drowning, and it was a- good while before we could recover
him. As soon as they were on board, we crowded all- the sail
we coujd make, and stood farther out to sea; and we found
that when the other three boats came up to the first, they gave
over their chase.
. Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew
not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I ap-
prehendedi I resolved that we should change our course, ami
not let any one know whither we were going: so we stood
out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European
ships, whether they were bound to China or any where else,
within the commerce of the European nations.
When we were at sea,-we began to consult with the two
seamen, arid inquire what the meaning of all this should be-j
and the Dutchman let us into the secret at once, telling .us that
the fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us how the
captain, whosename too he told us, though I do not remember
it now, was treacherously murdered by the natives on the coast
of Malacca, with three of his men; and that he, this Dutchman,
and four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about
a,great while, till at length he, in particular, in a miraculous
manner*, made his escape, and swam off.to a Dutch ship, which
saUing near the shore in its way from China, had sent their
boat on shore for fresh water j that he durst not come to that
part of the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the
night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the ship's boat took him up.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest
in their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who ha.d
run'away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
which were gone a cruizing in her x and that they had already
taken an English-ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden.
This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we
knew it to be false-; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if wc
had fallen into their hands, and they had had such a pre-
possession against us.before-hand, it had been in vain for us to
Save defended ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at
their hands j and especially considering that our accusers had
been our judges, and that we could have expected nothing froflj*
them but what rage would have dictated, and an ungoYerfl^Pi
passion have executed; and therefore it was his opinion-*fft
should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we caifl^
without putting in at any port whatever} because there V?'
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where V?
were when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and t\&
like j and, which was more than all the rest, if we were pP*
upon the necessity of bringing it before the proper judges, #e
should be sure to have some justice, and not to be hanged first
and judged afterwards.
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little
more serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great
hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were
on the wrong side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the
alarm was given, we should be sure to be way-laid on every
side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia as the English else-
where; that if we should be taken, as it were, running away*
we should even condemn ourselves, and there would want n°
more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor'*
opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should cer^
tainly be taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and
all the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to gQ
away to the coast of Tonquin, and soon to the coast of China r
and, pursuing the first design as to trade, find some way ot
other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the
vessels of the country, such as we could get. This was apr
proved of as the best method for our security; and according!/
we steered away N. N. E. keeping above fifty leagues off fropi
the usual course to the eastward. This, however, put us<t?
some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we came P
that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the £•
and E. N. E. so that we were a long while upon our voyage
and we were but ili^provided with victuals for so long a run f
and, which was still worse, there was some danger that tho*e
English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof
some were bound tbat way, might be got in before us* ancM*
not, some other ship bound to China might have informal
of us from them, and pursue us with the same vigour.
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought my."
self, including die late escape from the long-boats, to have
been in the most dangerous condition that ever I was through
my past life; for whatever ill circumstances I had been in, *
was never pursued for a thief before; nor had I ever done Wl
Wng' that merited'the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much
^thievish; I had chiefly been my own enemy, or* as I may
Tightly sdy; I had been nobody*s enemy but my own: but now
£"was erilharras^ed in the worst condition imaginable $ for
though"-I \va$ perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to make
that innocence appear; and if I had been taken, it had been
tinder' a 'supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made me very
anxious to make an escape* though which way to do it I knew
toot, or what port or place we could go to. My partner see-
hig me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at
first, began to encourage me, and describing' to me the several
!>ores of that coast, told me he would put in on the coast of
Cochin China, or the Bay of Tonquin, intending to go after-
wards tor Macao, a town once in possession of the Portuguese,
and where still a great many European families resided, and
particularly the missionary priests usually went thither, in order
to their golhg forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though
after a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened
for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in
thernorhing-, and upon reflection of the past circumstances we
^reih,ii arid the danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved
to put .into1 a Small river, which', however, had depth enough
of water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or by
the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were in any port
thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance}
for though we did not immediately *ee any European ships in
thebay of Tonquin> yet the next morning there came into the*
hay two Dutch ships, and a third, without any colours spread
out; but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
fcboul?'two leagues distance, steering for the coast of China;
too/in the afternoon went by two English ships steering the
sarrie course y and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset
with • enemies both one way and the other. The place we
were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by
Sccupatiori or profession; and though, it is, true, we had not
touch fo seek of them, and, except getting a few provisions,
cafed not hoV little we had to do with them, yet it was with
*riuck difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this coun-
tryp within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and
hyr6uf boat We coasted north-east, to the point of land which
°pens the great bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up.
abrig the shore that we discovered we were surrounded with
enemies. The people we were among were the most barber*
ous of all the inhabitants of the coast, having no correspond*
ence with any other nation, and dealing only in fish and oil, ^
such gross commodities; and it may be particularly seen that
they are the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants. hvcio$$
other customs, they have this one, viz. that if any vessel ha*
the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast, they present-
ly make the men all prisoners or slaves j and it was not \o$i
before we found a piece of their kindness this way, on the
occasion following.
I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea*
and that we could not find it out; and it happened that, a* *
have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minirte
of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the
bay of Siam j yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight
and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were at tin*
place, to Jny her on shore, and take out what heavy things we
had on board, and clean her bottom; and, if possible, id find
out where the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the
ship, and brought all our guns and other moveables to one
side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come at he*
bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find out a proper plaoe
for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with 'suck
a sight, came wondering down the shore to look at us j and
seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and
heeling in towards die shore, and not seeing our men, who
were at work on her bottom with stages, and with their boat*
on the off side, they presently concluded that the ship wa*
cast away, and lay so fast on the ground. On this suppositionr
they all came about us in two or three hours time, with ten
or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten
men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board
and plundered the sjnp; and if they had found us there, to
have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever they
call him, for we knew nothing of their governor.
When they came up to the ship and began to row round
her, they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the
shfp's bottom and side, washing and graving, and stopping, as
every seafaring man knows how. They stood for a while
gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, could not
imagine what their design was; but being willing to be sure*
ve took this opportunity, to get some of us into the ship, and
^Kers'to'ha'nd down arms and ammunition to those that were
^t'wbrk to defend themselves with, if there should be occa-
*}tin; and it was no more than need; for in less than*a quarter
°f an 'hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, tiiat the ship
J*Ss really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavour-
'tig to save her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats;
j**id when we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded,
ty that motion, that we were endeavouring to save some of
°rtr goods; upon this they took it for granted we all belonged
|° them, and away they came directly upon' our men, as if it
kid been in a line of battle.
'Our men seeing so many of them, began to be frightened,
£or we lay but in an ill posture to tight, and cried out to us to
foiow what'they should do: I immediately called to the men
that worked upon the stages to slip them down, and get up
*h'e side into the ship; and bade those in the boat to row
round, and come on board; and those few of us who were on
board worked with all the strength and hands we had to
bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men upon
the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them 5 and two of their
boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men*
as their prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a
stout, strong fellow, who having a musket in his hand, never
offered'to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like, a fool, as I
thought) but he understood his business better than I coulaV
t&ich htm, for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged him by
tiiain force out of their boat into ours, where taking him by
the ears, he beat his head so agajnst the boat's gunnel, that the
fcllbw died in his hands; and, in the mean time, a Dutchman,
who stood next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end
Qf it so laid about him, that he knocked down five of them
who attempted to enter, the boat. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, • because
'gnoraiit of their danger, began to throw themselves into the
kng-boat, where we had but five men in all to defend it: but
the "following accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our
*rien a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the
ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had caulked her to
stbp the leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat,
°ne filled with boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow
a&d oil, and such stufE as the shipwrights use for that work $
and the mnn that attended the carpenter had a great if01?
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that wetf
at work with the hot stuff; two of the enemy's men enterflj
the boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheet^
he* immediately saluted them with a ladle full of the stuff*
boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being !#?
naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged with tbj
fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, a°J;
cried out, "Well done, Jack! give them some more ofU*
and stepping forward himself, takes one of the mops, aftd
dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among
them so plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in the thre<j
boats^there was not one that escaped being scalded and burned
with it, in a most frightful, pitiful mariner, and made such 3
howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise: f°r
it is worth observing, that though pain naturally makes al»
people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of e**
clamation, and makes noises as different from one another &
their speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures made*
better name than howling, nor a name more proper to the
tone of it; rfor I never heard any thing more like the noise off
the wolves, which, as I have said, I heard howl in the foi***
on the frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; n°*
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our dang^
was imminent before, but, as we got this victory without qp$
bloodshed, except of that man die fellow killed witK his nak#*
hands, and which I was very much concerned at, for I was
sick of killing such poor savage wretches, even though it wp
in my own defence, knowing they came on errands whtej1
they thought just, and knew no better; and that though *e
may be a just tiling, because necessary, (for there is no neces-
sary wickedness in nature,) yet I thought it was a sad life*
when we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow*
creatures to preserve ourselves j and, Indeed, I think so still/
and I would even now suffer a great deal, rather than J
would take away the life even of the worst person injuring
me j and I believe all considering people who know the vfllu0
of life would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously in^
the consideration of it.
But to return to my story :—All the while this was doing*
my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board*
had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, an<*
having got the gnnsiinto their places again, the gunner called
jP.tne.jto bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let
X^ong them. I called back again to him, and bid him not
ffl§x to fire, for the carpenter woujd do the'work without
^un, but bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook,
Ho was on board, took care of: but the enemy was so terri-
W with what they had met with In their first attack* that
jjtey would not come on again $ and some of them who were
%thest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were upright, began, as
We suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the enterprise,
Ruling it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
Jjierry fight, and having got some rice, and some, roots and
ty"ead, with about sixteen hogs on board, two days before, we
^solved to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever
catne of it y for we made no doubt but we should be surround-
ed the next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our
tUch-kettle wpuld dispose of for us. We therefore got all
Qur things on board the same evening, and the next morning
Were ready to sail: in the mean time, lying at anchor at some
^stance from the. shore, we were not so much concerned,
l^ing now in a righting posture, as well as in a sailing posture,
lf any enemy had presented. The next day, having finished
9ur wo*k within board, and finding our ship was perfectly
healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone in-
tathe bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of
What was to be known concerning the Dutch ships that had
keen there, but we durst not stand in there, because we had
^en several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before 5
so we kept on N. E. towards the island of Formosa, as much
afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as
a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of
a& Algerine man of war.
. When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as if we
Would go to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this
We did that we might not fall into the way of any of the
European ships 5 and then we steered north, till we came to
ttie latitude of 22 deg. SO min. by which means we made the
^Jand Formosa directly* where we came to an anchor, in or-
^r to get water and fresh provisions, which the people there,
who are very courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us
With willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us
fy.ali their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not
find among other people^ and may be owing to the remains of
Christianity which was once planted here by a Dutch mlssibn-
**y<of protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often pb-
served, viz. that the Christian religion always civilizes \^e
people and reforms their manners, where it is received, 1-vhfe'
ther it works saving effects upon them or no. fJ;'L
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast'"'^
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond #'*
the ports of China where our European ships usually coined
heing resolved, if possible, not to fall into any of their han4s>
especially in this country; where, as our circumstances \v&c>
we could not fail of being entirely ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolve*
to put into the first trading port we should come at; ^
standing in for the shore, a boat carrie off two leagues to u5>
with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who knowing us to be
an European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed
we were glad of, and took him on board; upon which, with*
out asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat be
came in, and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make ^e
old man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk t0
him about carrying us to the gulph of Nanquin, which is the
most northern part of the coast of China. The old man $$
he knew the gulph of Nanquin very well, but smiling, aske^
us what we would do there? I told him we would sell o&
cargo and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, t&>
wrought silks, &c. and so would return by the same co\$&
we came. He told us our best port had been to have put &
at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market #r
our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money b$e
purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could ^
Nanquin. >
„ Not being able to put the old man out of his talk* of wbic*
he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were g^1*
tlemen as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to >&
and see the great city of Peking, and the famous court of.tltf
monarch of China. "Why then," says the old man, "yoU
should go to Ningpo, where, by the river which runs into;^1?
sea there, you may go up within five leagues of the &&*
canal." This canal is a navigable stream, which goes through
the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates*
and goes up to the city of Peking, being in length near 27?
leagues.
« Well/* said I; '< Seignior Portuguese, but that is not oUr
business now; the great question is, if you can carry us up>t<?
Abe city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Peking
afterwards?"  He said we could do so very well, and that
there was a great Dutch ship gone up that avay just before.
This gave me-a little shock, for a Dutch, ship-was now our
terror, and we had mucli rather have met the devil, at least if
he.had not come in too frightful a figure; and we depended
upon it that a Dutch ship would be, our destruction, for we
Were in no condition to fight them; all the ships they trade
With into those parts being of great burthen, and of much
greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some
Concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me, " Sir,
you need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch j I sup-
pose they are not now at war with your nation ?"—" No/'
says I, " that's true; but I know not what liberties men may
take when they are out of the reach of the laws of their own
country."—" Why," says he, "you are no pirates, what need
you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants
sure?"
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my
ftce at that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels
appointed by nature to circulate^, for it put me into the
greatest disorder and confusion imaginable: nor was it pos-
sible for me to conceal it so, but the old man easily per-
ceived it.
"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in your
thoughts at my talk j pray be pleased to go which way you
think fit, and, depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I can."
*+*-<< Why, Seignior," said I, " it is true, I am little unsettled
*n my resolution at this time, whither to go in particular 5 and
1 am something more so for what you said about pirates; I
hope there are no pirates in these seas y we are but in an ill
Condition, to meet with them, for you see we have but a small
force, and but very weakly manned."—" O Sir," says he,
''don't be concerned, I do not know that there has been any
Pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except one, which was
Seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since j but
you may be assured she is gone to the southward -, nor was
8oe a ship of any great force, or fit for the work; she was
flot built for a privateer, but was run away with by a re-
probate crew that was on board, after the captain and some
°f his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or near
the island of Sumatra.*'—<e What I" said I, seeming to know
Nothing of the matter, t€ did they murder the captain ?"-—
f< No," said he, "I don't understand that they murdered
him \ but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is ge*
nerally believed that they betrayed him into the hands of "^
Malayans, who did murder him $ and perhaps they procure
them to do it."—" Why then," said I, <f they deserve deal*1
as much as if they had done it themselves."—<' Nay," S*P
the old man, " they do deserve it, and they will certainly ha*'e
it, if they light upon any English or Dutch ship'; for they
have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogue they11
give him no quarter."—" But," said I to him, " you say We
pirate is gone out of these seas; how can they meet with hlIT1
then ?"—" Why that's true," says he, " they do say so j °ut
l]e was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river Cam"
bodia, and wa3 discovered there by some Dutchmen who be*
longed to the ship, and who were left on shore when they &?
away with her $ and some English and Dutch traders being j*j
the river, they were within a little of taking him: nay,," said
fee, " if the foremost boats had been well seconded by the
rest, they had certainly taken him $ but he rinding only t^'O
boats within reach of him, tacked about, and fired at those
two and disabled them before the others came up, and the*1
standing, off to sea, the others were not able to follow, and *°
he got away; but they have all so exact a description of &Q
ship, that they will be sure to know her, and wherever they
iind her they have vowed to give no quarter either to the cap*
tain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm."-**
u What!" says I, " will they execute them right or wrong >
hang them first, and judge them afterwards ?"—" O Sir," say*
the old pilot, " there is no need to make a formal business ot
it with such rogues as those $ let them tie them back to back*
and set them a diving, 'tis no more than they deserve."
I knew I had my old man fast pn board, and that he could
do me no harm, so that I turned short upon him: *' WdJ
now, Seignior," said I, " this is the very reason why I would
have you carry us up to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao;
or to any other part of the country where the English ot
Dutch ships come j for be it known to you, Seignior, thoj#
captains of the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash;
proud, insolent fellows, that neither know what belongs toju*"
tice, or how to behave themselves as (he laws of God and
nature direct 5 but being proud of their offices, and not un^
derstanding their power, they would act the murderers j°
punish robbers 5 would take upon them to insult men falsely
accused, and determine them guilty without due inquiry: 3nd
perhaps I may live to bring some of them to account for it,
when they may be taught how justice is to be executed; and
that no man ought to be treated as a criminal till some evidence
may be had of the crime, and that he is the man."
With this I told him that this was the very ship they at-
tacked, and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had
with their boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they, be-
haved. I told him all the story of our buying the .ship, and
how the Dutchman served us. I told him the reasons I had
to believe the story of killing the master by the Malayans was
true, as also the running away with the ship; but it was all a
fiction of their, own to suggest that the men had turned pirates;
and they ought to have been sure it was so before they hac(
ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them 5
adding, that they would have the blood of those men, whom
we killed there in just defence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we
were very much in the right to go away to the north j and
that if he might advise tis> it should be to sell the ship in
China, which we might very welldo, and buy or build another
in the country j and, said he^ though you will not get so good
a ship, yet you may get ope able enough to carry you and all
your goods back again to Bengal, or any where else. I told
him I would take his advicte when I came "to any port where
I could find a ship for my turn, or get any customer to buy
this. He replied,. I should meet with customers enough for
the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me
very well to go back again; and that lie would procure me
people both to buy'one and sell the other. "Well, but
Seignior," says I, "as you say they know the ship so well, I
inay, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to
bring some honest innocent men into a terrible i>roil, and per-
haps to be murdered in cold blood; for wherever they find the
ship, they 'will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this
Was the ship, and so innocent men may probably be over-
powered^and murdered."—" Why," says the old man, "Til
find out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all those
commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all
as they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the
thing, and let them know that they had been so much in the
"Wrong \ that though the people who were on board at first
flight run away with the ship, yet it was not true that they
had turned pirates.; and that, in particular, these were not the
toen that first went ofT^with the ship, but innocently bought
VOL. II. I
her for their-tradc j and I am persuaded they witt so far be*
lieve-me^as at least to act more cautiousty for the time to
come.'1 ,
While these things were passing between;us, by way of dis-
course, we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about
thirteen days sail came to an anchor at the-south-west point
of the great gulph of Nanquin ; where, by the way, I came by
accident to understand that two Dutch ships were gone the
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their
handst I consulted my partner again in this exigency, and he
was as much at a loss as I was,, and would very gladly have
been safe on shore almost any where: however, I was not in
such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was
no creek or harbour which I might put into and pursue roy
business with the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of
the enemy? He told me if I would* sail to the southward
about forty-two leagues, there was a little port called Quin-
chang, where the fathers of the mission usually landed from
Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian religion to the
Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in j and if I
thought to put in there, I might consider what farther course
to take when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was
not a place for merchants, except that at some certain time5
they had a kind of; a fair there, when the merchants . from
Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese merchandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this place 5 the name of the
port, as he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do riot
particularly remember it, having lost this, together with the
names of many other places set down in a little pocket-book,
which was spoiled by the water by an accident; but this I
remember, that the Chinese or. Japanese merchants we corre-
sponded with called it by a different name from that which our
Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above, Quia-
chang.
As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place,
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore
where-we were to get fresh water, .* on both which occasions ,
theipeople of the country were very civil to us, -and brought
us abundance of things to sell to us, I mean of provisions
plants,^roots, tea, rice, and .some fowls, but nothing-witho^1
anoney. * . -'*
We came to. the other port (the wind being contrary) not
till tivedays, but it was very much to our. satisfaction ^and;*
was joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my,foot.#**
shore,- resolvlng^and mypartnec too, that if it was.possible' to
dispose of-ourselves and effects any other way, though not
every way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on
board that unhappy vessel more j:and, indeed, I must acknow-
ledge", that of all the. circumstances/ of life that avenilvha&auy
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely, miserable
as that of being in constant fear- (Well does.the. scripture
say, the fear of man brings a snare; it is a life of death, and
the mind is so entirely suppressed by it, that it is capable of no
relief.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by
heightening every danger, representing* the English and Dutch
captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest .men and rogues, or between a story
calculated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose
to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voyage,
progress and design; for we might many .ways have convinced
any reasonable creature that we were not pirates; the goods
we had on board, the course we steered, our frankly showing
ourselves, and entering into such and such ports; and even
our very manner, the force we had, the.number of men, the
few arms, little ammunition, short provisions; all these would
have served to convince any men that we were no pirates. The
opium and other goods we had%on board would make it appear
the ship had been at BengaJL The Dutchmen, who, it was
said, had the names of all the:, men that were.in the'ship,
might easily see that we were a mixture of English,; Portu-
guese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These,
and many other particular circumstances, might have mads it
evident to the understanding of any commander, whose hands
we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But fear, that
blind, useless passion, worked another way, and threw us into
the vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set the
imagination at work to form a thousand terrible things that
perhaps might never happen. We first supposed, as indeed
every, body had related to us, that the seamen on board the
English and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so
enraged !at; the name of a pirate, and especially at our beating
off their boats and escaping, that they would not give them-
selves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no, but would
execute us off hand, as we call it, without giving us any room
for ^defence. We reflected that there really was so much
apparent evidence befon^them, that they would scarce inquire
after any more; as, first, that the ship was certainly the same,
and that some of the seamen among them knew her, and had
been on board her; and, secondly* that when we had intelli4-
genee at the river of Cambodia that they, were coming down
to examine us, We fought their boats and fled; so that we
made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our .being
pirates, as we were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I often
said, I know riot but I should have been apt to have taken
those circumstances for evidence, if the tables werfc turned*
and my case was theirs, and have made no scruple of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or perhaps consider-
ing, what they might have to offer in their defence.
But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions»
and both my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters and yard-arms, that is to say, gibbets j of fight-
ing, and being taken; of killing, and being killed: and one
night I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutch-
men had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my double fist against the side df <he
cabin I lay in with such a force, as wounded my hand griev-
ously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, 50
that it awaked me out of my sleep. . ^
Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might
meet with from them if we fell into their hands: then the
story of Amboyna carrie into my head, and how the Dutch;
might perhaps torture us, as they did^our countrymen therev
and make some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess
those crimes they never were guilty of, or own themselves arid,
all of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with
a formal appearance of justice; and that they might'bp
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, wliicjf
was worth four or five thousand pounds, put all together.''"'
These things tormented me and my partner too, night ana
day; nor did we consider tha£ the captains of ships have'ho'
authority to act thus; and if we had surrendered prisoners ta
them, they could not answer the destroying us, or torturing
us, but would be accountable for it when they came to theft
own country; this, I say, gave me no satisfaction; for if theft
were to act thus with us, what advantage would it be fp'^u3
that''they should be called to an account for it? or if we'^vWg
first tobe murdered, what satisfaction would it be toUs^t6(h%.^
them punished when they came home? a ::"'l''i'*:," lU'[*„Ftt
* I cannot refrain* taking notice here^what^refl^tiotfs^rh^
had' fopon the vast variety of rrryparticular elfc'ums\ah'ce£v
how h&raM thought ft wa<r; thatl, ;w£6 liad Vpeir forbears
i»i a life of continued.difficulties^ and was a,t last come, as it
were, to the port or hayeawJbi^ at, Viz. to
have rest and plenty, should the a volunteer' in new sorrows by
my own unhappy choice j ^nd'that I, who had escaped so
many dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged in
my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime which I was
not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of.
After these thoughts, something of religion would come in;
and I should be considering that this seemed to me to be a
disposition of immediate Providence, and I ought to look up-
on it and submit to it as such; that although I was innocent
as to men> I was far from being innocent as to my Maker;
and f ought to look in and examine what other crimes in my
life were most obvious to me, and for which Providence might
justly inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I
ought to submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it
had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.
In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place,
and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions;
that I would not be taken to be barbarously used by a parcel
of merciless wretches in cold blood; that it were much bet-
ter to hav& fallen into the hands'of the savages, though I was
sure they would feast upon me when they had taken me,
than those who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by in-
human tortures and barbarities; that in the case of the savages
I always resolved to die fighting to the last gasp, and why
should I not do so now, seeing it was much more dreadful,
to me,, at least, to think of falling into these men's hands,
than ever I .was to think of being eaten by men; for the
savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till he was
killed and dead, but that these men had m^ny arts beyond the
cruelty of death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was
sure^to put myself into a kind of fever with the agitation of a
supposed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as
if I was engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter
at their hands j but, even at last, if I could resist no longer, I
Would blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave
them but little booty to boast of.
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these
things were to our thoughts while we were at sea, the greater
Was oiir satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my
partner told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon
his back,*which he was^to carry up a hill, and found that ho
Was riot able to stand longbnder it, but that the Portuguese pilot
came and took -it ;off his back, and the hill disappeared, th£
grouucfbefore, him Appearing all smooth and plain j, and truly
it was. $0:3 they were all like men who .had $ load, taken, .off
their, backs. For my part, I ha&.a weight taken pjf from my
heart that it was nots able any longer to beaj:;. anoV as I,$aid
above, we resolved to. go, no more to sea in -that ship.;;. When
we came on shore*, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got
us a lodging and a warehouse for our goods* wjiich, by the
way, was,much the,same,: it was a little house* 01;hut^with
a largenhouse adjoining to it, all built withcapes, and-pall-
sadoed round with large cane$i to keep out pijfering tlueves, of
which, it seems, there were not, a few in that comitry 5 how-
ever, the magistrates allowed us a little, guard, and we had a
soldier with a kind of halberd/ or half*pike, who stood centi-
nel at our door 3 to whom we, allowed a pin!; 'of rice,. and a
little piece of money, about the value, of threepence per day,
so 'that our goods were kept very safe.
The fair, or mart, usually kept in this3 place had been over
some time j however, we'found that, there were three or,four
junks in the. river, and two Japaners* I > mean; .ships Jron*
Japan, with goods which they had bought in .China* atol*WPf$
not,gone away, having some Japanese merchants,o.n .shtfre*; n ,
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did: for*u^Was to
get us acquainted with three missionary Rpmish, priest^ who*
were in town, and who had been there some. time., pooveriing^
the people to Christianity 5 but we\ thought* they-made nbnl
poor work of U, and made them but sorry Christians:wheh
they had done ;- however, that wa^.none of qur business..One
of thc$e was a Frenchman, whom they called Father- Simony;
another Hvas. a Portuguese, and the third1 a Geuoesej but
Father Simon, was courteous, easy in his mariner* and vcty
agreeable company 5 theiOther two were more reserved, .seemr
ed rigid ^and austere, ant) applied seriously lb> the Worki; they
came about, vjz. to talk with, and insinuate themsblves amWg
the inhabitants wherever they had opportunity.. We.often cat
and.drank with those men $ and though, I must confess j itho
conversion, as tfiey call it, of the Chinese: to Christianity? fcso
far from the true conversion required to bring heathen people
to t)ie faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little -more
than letting them know the name; Of Christ, aud say^in^
prayers to therfYirgin:Mary and her .Son, ina> tongue svliich
they, understand: noj, and to crosk themselves) ^andathe like 5
yet it must be confessed .that the religionUfe^whom wre.jcali
missionaries, have a firm belief that thesepeople AViH-bejsaved,
and that they-are the instruments'of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue'of the voyage, and the
hazards of living in such* places;' bufc oftentimes deam itself,
With the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work.
But to return to my story: This French'priest, 'Father Si-
mori, was appointed, it seems, by order of .the chief* of the
mission, to go up to Peking, the royal'seat of the1 Chinese
emperor, and waited only for another'priest, who was order-
ed to come to him from Macao, to go long with him j and
we scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to go that
journey,- telling me how he would show meJall the glorious
things of that'mighty empire, and, among the rest,-.the greatest
city in the world; a city, said he, that your London and our
Paris put together, cannot be- equal' to. This was the city-of
Peking, which, I confess; is very great, and ^infinitely fair of
people; but'as I"looked on those things with different eyes
from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a. tew'
words, when I come in the course of my travels to speak rriore
particularly of them. »-
^ But, first,' I come to my friar or missionary: dining, with
him one day, and being very merry together, I showed some
little inclination to go -with him, and he pressed me and
my partner very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to
consent. "Why, Father Simon," says my partner, " should
you desire our company so much? you know we are heretics,
and you do not love us, nor cannot keep us company with
any pleasure."—" O/1 says he, ".you may perhaps be good
catholics in time j my business here is to convert heathens
and who knows but I may convert you too ?"—" Very well
Father," said I, " so you will preach to us all the way."—" I
will not be troublesome to you," says he\ "our religion does
not divest us of good manners: besides, we are here like
countrymen, and so we are, compared to the place we arcing
and if you are Hugonots, and I'a catholic, we may.all be
Christians at last; at least, we are all gentlemen, and;we.may-
converse so, without being uneasy to one aiiother." I liked
this part of his discourse very well; and, it began to put me hi
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brasils * but this
Father 'Shfaon did not come up ,to bis character by a great
deal; for thpugh Father Simon had no appearance of a crimU
liaHevity in him neither, yet he had not that fund.of Christian
zeal* strict yrety,; and sincere affection to religion^ "that my
other good ecclesiastic had.' . r *'
- But to leave him a> little; though he never lefr as; rior
17 6 JtDVBNTUJtES* OP
sol iqi ting iU5>to^got,witKhim:;nWB?had;something dse; before !&
at first, for we had all this while our ship and our merchandise
to dispoaeof, and we begantoibe verydoubtful what we should
do, for we were,now in a place of very litUe business >r arid
once 1 was about, to venture to sail for the river of KiJa.ni, and
the city of Nanquup; but.Providence seemed now more visi-
bly, as J thought, than ever to concern itself in oqr affairs;
and I was encouraged, front this very time, to thiiikl should one
way or other get out of this entangled circumstance*.and be
brought home to my own country again, though 1 had not the
least view of the manner -, Providence, I say, began hereto
clear up our way a little; and the first thing that ^offered; was,
that our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to. us,
who inquired what goods we had j and, in the first place, he
bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, pay-
ing us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own coin*
and some in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each*
While we were dealing with him for our opium, it;came into
my head that he might perhaps deal for the ship too, and J or*
dered the interpreter to propose it-to him; lie;shrunk.up '{ite
shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him j^but ifl'fl
few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had ,a proposal t&
make.to me, which was ttris:—he had bought a great quantity
of ;gqqds of us, when he had:no thoughts of. proposals -made
to him of buying the ship; and that, therefore,. he;had hot?
mpqey enough to pay for the ship: but if I would Jet xhe
same men who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire
the ship to go to Japan j and would send them from thdnce
tq the Philippine islands with another loading* which Jie,wvould
pay the freight of before they went from Japan y. and , that a*
their return he would buy tjie ship. I began* to .listen toihis
proposal, and so, eager did my head still run. upon rambling,
that I could pot but begin to entertain a notion of going: my>
self with him,, and so to sail from the Philippine islands away
to the South Seas;, accordingly,, I asked the Japanese jhett
chant if he would not hire us to. the Philippine islands,, and
discharge us-there. He said no, he could notjdo that,;foritheA
he could not haye,the return of his cargo; but he wouIdidisV'
chargers in Japan, at the ship's return* Wfcll^stiUIiwasifof
takjng:him,at:that proposal^ aodgoing myself jbutmy^rl:^
ner, wiser than, myself, persuaded me fcomyit, ^representing*
the dangers,,, as ^ell .of the seas as of ,t1i^ J^anese^jivjioiam'
a ftJseJv cruel,, and treacherous people it JikewW^hoaelof jthm
Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, cruel and treacherous
tban^hey, * . < .•.-,. . . . ,
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion:
the first;thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of*
the ship, and with his men, and know if they were willing to
go to Japan: and while I was doing this, the young man
whom my nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels came to me, and told me that he thought that voyage
promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect of ad-
vantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it $ but
that if I would not, and would give him leave, he would go
a& a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if ever he
came to England, and I was there, and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much
mine as I pleased. I was really loath to part with him; but
considering the prospect of advantage, which really was con-
siderable, and that he was a young fellow as likely to do well
in it as,any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but I told him
I would-consult my partner,, and give him an answer, the next
day. My partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner
made.a.most generous offer: "You know it has been an un-
lucky ship," said he, " and we both resolve not to go to sea in
it againj if your steward (so.he called my man) will venture
Uie voyage^ I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and let
him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one
half of the profits of the ship's freight to us 5. the other shall
be Jbis ownJV
It* my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
ntan, made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer
him the same t and all the ship's company being willing to go
With, him, we made over half the ship to him in property, and
took.a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other;
and away he went to Japan. The Japaa merchant proved a
very punctual honest man to him j. protected him at Japan, and
gptihim a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans in
general have not lately obtained -r paid him, his freight very
punctually,^ent him to the Philippines,, loaded with Japan and
China wares,, and a supercargo of their own, who trafficing
witivthe-Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and,
a great quantity of cloves and other spices y and there lie was
Qpt only, paid his freight very well, and at'a very good pricey
but not being-willihg to sell the ship then, the merchant fur*
ni*hed4iiftiigoodf on his own account; and with some money,,
12
IT'S AbVENYCftHS OP
and some spices of his own which he brought with him; hfc
went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his
cargo very -AVell. Here, having got a good acquaintance at
Manilla, he got his ship, made a free shij\j and the governor
of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco inAmerica^on the
coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land {here; and to
travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe
with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco very hap-
pily, and there he sold his ship; and having there also obtqincd
allowance to'travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means*
somehow or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure;
and about eight years after came to England exceeding rich,
of which I shall take notice in its place; in the'mean time; £
return to our particular affairs.
Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, i*
came before us, of course, to consider what recompence w<?
should give to the two men that gave us such timely notice of
the design against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was*
they had done us a very considerable services, and deserved
Well at our hands, though, by the way, they were a coupled
rogues too j for as they believed the story of our being pirates,
and that we had really run away with the ship, they came down
to us not only to betray the design that was formed-against us;
but to go to sea with \is as pirates; and one of them confessed
afterwards that nothing else, but the hopes of going a roguing
brought him'tb'do it": however, the service they did us was
not the less; and, therefore, as I had promised to be grateful
to them, I first ordered die money to be paid them which they
said was due to them on board their respective ships.; over and
above that, 1 gave each of them a small sum of money in gold*
which contented them very well; then I madethe>Englishmari
gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second mate
and purser; the'Dutchman I made boatswain; tfothey wer(J
both very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both
able seamen, and very stout felloes. \ '*
We were now on shore in China: if I thought myself ba-
nished And Ye mote from* my own country at Bengal, where I had
many_ ways to get home for my money, what could I think of
myself now, when I was got about a thousand leagues farther
off from home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of pro-
spect of rtJturn? All we had for it was tl?is, that in abdut/fouT
months time there was to be another fair tit the place-where
we were, and \heri we might be able to purchase all sorts of
the1 manufactures VfHho country, and-withal 'mighVpossilily'
Rt>fcrVs6NrcAirsoE, ]?§
find som?# Chinese junks' or Vessels from Toncjuih, ihat^ould
be to behold, hrid woul#carf)> us^ahd'ouFgboJs whithVrwe
pleased. This! liked very well, arid resolved.tol\yait; 'besides,
as our particular* persons were hot obnoxious, so If -any finglish
or Dutch ships came- thither; perhaps we might have ah oppor-
tunity to load ourg66ds> and get' passage to some other place
in India> nearer 'home. Upmr these hop$s we resolved to
continue here; 'but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
journies into the country. First, we went ten days, jourpey,
to the city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, indeed; they
say it has a million of people in it: it is regularly built^ the
streets all exactly straight, and cross one another1 hi direct lines,
which gives the figure of it great advantage. But when'I
come to compare the miserable people of these countries with
ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their government,
their religion, their wealth, and their glory, as some call'it,'I
must confess that I scarcely think it worth my while to men-
tion; them here. It is very observable, that we wonder at the
grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the govern-
ment, the manufactures, the commerce and conduct of thesis*
people; not that it is to be wondered at, or, indeed^ in the
least tQi be regarded, but because having a true notion of the
barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance
that prevails there, we do not expect to find any such thing so
farofE Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces
and royal buildings of Europe * What ^heir trade to the uni-
versal commerce-of < England, Holland, France, and: Spain?
What are theii Cities to ours, for wealth, strength/gaiety of*
apparel, rich: furniture, and infinite variety > What; are their
pGoi'tSj supplied^ with a few junks and barks, to our navigation;,
our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city'
of London has more trade than half their mighty empire: one
English, Putch, or French man of war of 80 guns/would be
able to fight almost all the shipping belonging to China: but'
the greatness of their wealth, their trade/ thei power of their
government, and the strength 6f their armies, may be a little
surprising to us, because, as I have said, considering them :ts
a barbarous nation -of pagans; little better than savages, we did
not expect such things among* them: and this, indeed, is the
advantage with which ait trmi? greatness and power is repre-
sented1 to usr? otherwisei it is inltseirriotilr^ataU^ for^hai
I have* said of theirships may be sard of their aiml&Tbid tr<K>Ps 5
all the-fojfces of their empire, though they were to bring; llY<>
million* of raemiiito'-tfae'field together, woultf bW ableld do"'
nothing,hut xuin, the country, rand starye> themselves,if the*
were Xo besiege a strong town in,^Jander$> or. to fight a disci-
plined army -,t pne good line of German curiassjers, or of French
cavalry, might withstand all the horse of China, k« miIlion^
their foot poqld, not .stand before ouefembattled body of our.in-
fantry^ posted sp as nqt tp: be surrounded, though tbey:M£*e
not to be ono to twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if*
say that SQ^OQO German or jSngJish fppt, and 10*0.0.0 horsey
well managed, could defeat all the forces of China; and scurf
our fortified towns, and pf the ar^ of our engineers in assault-*
ing and defending towns 5 there is not a fortified town in Chioa
could hoid out one month against the batteries, and attack*,
of an European army j and, at the same time, all the armies
of China could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided
it was not starved; no, not in a ten years siege. They iwive
fire-arms, it is true, but they are aukward and uncertain Jn
iheir going off; and their powder has but little strength.
Their armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to attacky
or temper to retreat; and, therefore, I must confess, it seemed
strange tp me, when I came home, and heard pur people: say
such fine things of thepower, riches, gloiy, magnificence,^nd
traded of the Chinesej (because, as far as I saw^ they appeared
to be a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves,:
subjected to a government qualified only to- rule such a, peppier
end w^rej not its. distance inconceivably great from Muscovy,
and the Muscovite empire in a manner as rude^ impotent*, ajji
ill-governed as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with ease drive
them all out of their country, and conquer them in one cam-
paign ; andliad the Czar (who is now a growing priace) fallen*
this way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes* and equally
improved himself in the art of war, as they say .he has done,,
and if none of the powers 'of Europe hadenvjed or inters
rupted him, he might by this time have been-emperor of Chi*
na, instead of being beaten by the king of Sweden at Narva,
when the latter,was not one to six in number. As their strength;
and their grandeur, so their navigation,, commerce and hus-*
bandry is very imperfect, compared tp the same things in Eu-
rope^: also in their knpwledge, their learnings s and in,-their
skill m the scienceS| they are either very, aukward or defective
though Jheyhave;globes and spjicw, and a;-smattering:ofMhe
fcnpwledge of the mathematics, and think they know more^than
all the worla^besides; but they know, link; of the motions qi
the,hUvefitybodies; and sogrossly-^and absurdly ignorantate
their common people/ that when the suit is (eclipsed, they thinfc
a^attftf^onbas'assaulted it,aridAi going to run away with
it pand they fall a clatteringwith airthe;drums -arid kettles in
tbk country, to fright the monster awayyjust aVwe do to hive
a * warm of bees. - -
-As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have' made
in all'the accounts I have given of my travels, so I shall make
nd more such; it is ndne of my business, or any part of my
design; but to give an account of my own adventures through
a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long variety of changes,
which, perhaps, few that tome after me will have heard the
like of: I shall therefore say very little of all the mighty places,
desert countries, and numerous people I have yet to pass
through, more than relates to my own story, and which my
concern among them will make necessary.
I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China,
about thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned
from Nanquin: I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Peking,
which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon importuned
me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
setyand the other missionary who was to go* with him being
arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve
either to. go or not j so I referred it wholly to my partner, and
left it wholfy to his choice, who at length resolved it in the af-
firmative, and we prepared for our journey. We set out with
very good advantage, as to finding the way, for we got leave to
travel in the retinue of one of their Mandarins, a kind of viceroy
or principal magistrate in the province where they reside, and
who. take great state upon them, travelling with great attend-
ance,.ahd with great homage from the people* who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, being obliged to furnish
provision* for them and all their attendants in their journies.
That which t particularly observed, as to our travelling with his
baggage,-was this, that though we received, sufficient provisions
both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as belong-
ing to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every thing,
we had, after the market price of the country,, ani the Man-
darin** steward collected ft duly from us; so that our travelling
in, the retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great
kindness to-us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a
greai advantage to hiiii, considering there were above thirty
other ipeopfe travelled in the same manner'besides us, under
the protector] of|iU retinue; for the country* furnished all the;
Provisibn$rf6t!fco&Tngjto him/ and yet he took our money for
tbeihvJ: *(.**.; J:jo :..;;=.•' .•.•-. :• .,•:•.-•*
husbandry, tne economy, and tne way ot Jiving imsvui^
though they boast so much of \he industry of the people, j 1
Say miserable', if compared*wftfi bur own, But not so to these
 
v.- -. -v^^o;
more happy than the poorer sort of these, because as they hav?
nothing, so they desire nothing;mwhereas these are proud and
insolent, arid in the maiii are in many.parts mere beggars arid
drudges j their ostentation is inexpressible; and, if they cap;
they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which if ^
the last degree ridiculous, as well as the contempt of all the
world but themselves. ,
I must Confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in th?
deserts' and Vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here j, a.11"
yet the roads here are well paved'and well kept, and very}cQtl'
venient for travellers':' but nothing was more awkward to^e
than" to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent people* Iti tli^
midst of the grossest sjmplipity and ignorance} and my fne#f
Father Sirrion ^nd I used to be very merry upon theset.occa-
sions, to see tll0 beggarly pride of,these people: for example*
coming tiy the'house of a country gentleman; as father Sm^fl
called him, about ten leagues off the city of Nanqu,ju4 \ye lvjfd
first of all the Jionour to ride with the master of Hiqf liouse
about two miles j the state he rdde in wa? a perfect Don Qu$/
otism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His. habit waj
Very proper for a scafamottch, or merry-andrew, ^eipg a ihrj}!
calico, with handing-sleeves, tassels, arid cuts and slasJiesalrjQQ^
orievery side; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher1^
and which testified that his honour must be a most exqu'UjKf
sloven. His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creatu^
and lip haft two slaves follow.ecfhinV913 foot to drive the j)i$j
creattore'along? he had a \Vhip inihis hand, arijd he labourijl
the beast as fast about the liead as his slaves did about his'taj},}
ahd thuslie'rod'e by us, witli about ten or twelve. sqrVant^1
going'^r&tn the city to his country seat, about lialf a^ieagujf
before us;1 We "travelled on'gentLy, but this figure of a jgf^l
tleman rode away before us, and as we stopped at a^yipn^
about -J-,rJii~' -• •' >''*'' * * - — ^ '-' ' *r "'**>l'-" '-:-»•***
 
Was easy to^be seen j and we were given Xo understand: that
the more we looked on him the better he, would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto, which ef-
fectually shaded him over the, head,, and on the south side; but
tmder the tree was also placed a large umbrella, which made
that part look well enough; he sat lolling back in a great cl-
how-chair, being a heavy corpulent man, and had his meat
brought him by two women slaves; he had two more, one of
Which fed the squire with a spoon, and theother held the dish
with one hand, and scraped oil* what he let fall upon his wor-
ship's beard and tarYety vest.
Thus leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired ,1ns pomp, though we really
pitied and contemned him, we pursued our journey < only
Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform himself what
dainties the country justice had to feed on in all his state, which
he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a mess
of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag
filled with green pepper, and another plant which they have
there, something like our ginger, but smelling like musk* nod
tasting like mustard;. all this was put together, and a small
piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worships
repast; four or five servants more attended at a distance, who,
wp supjx)sed, were to eat of the same after their master.
As for our Mandarin with whom we travelled, he was re-
spected as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, .and
attended in all his appearances with such pomp, that 1 saw
little of him but at a distance j but this I observed, that there
was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers pack-horses
in England seemed to me to look much better; though it was
hard to judge rightly, for they were so covered with equipage,
mantles, trappings, &rc. that we could scarce see any thing but
tl)eirfeet and their heads as they went along.
I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble ana perplexity
that I have given an account of being over, I, bad no anxious
thought about me, which made this journey the plcasanter to
tne,; :nor had I any illaccident attended me., only in the pass-
ing or fording a small river my horse fell, and made me free
t)f the country, as tljey call it, that is to say, threw me in; tlie
place was not deep, but it wetted me all over, I mention it,
bemuse it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set doyvn
the names of several people and places; which I had occasion to
fercember, and which* not taking due care of, the Jeaves rotted;
and the words were never after to be read, to my great l6$i,
as to the names of some places I touched at in this journey.'
At length we arrived at Peking; I had nobody with me
but the youth whom my nephew the captain had given nte
to attend me as a servant, and who proved very trusty an**
diligent; and my partner had tiobody with him but one set*
vant; who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot* he
being desirous to see the court, we bore hts charges for foij
company, and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood
the language of the country, and spoke good French, and a
little English -} and, indeed, this old man was a most usefa*
implement to us every where; for we had not been above a
week at Peking, when he came laughing, "Ah, Seignior In-
glese," says he, " I have something to tell you will make you*
heart glad."—" My heart glad!" says I j tc what can that
oe? I don't know any thing in this country can either gfre
me joy or grief, to any great degree."—" Yes, yes," said the
old man, in broken English, €( make y6u glad, me sorry."--^
*' Why," said I, "will it make you sorry ?"—" Because/
said he, €t you have brought me here twenty-five days jour",
ney, and will leave me to go back alone, and which- way shall
I get to my port afterwards without a ship, without a-horso.
without pecune .•" so he called money, being his broken "Latin;
of which he had abundance to make us merry with. In shorty
he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish
merchants in the city, preparing to set out on their journey
by land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he w#.
sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, arid
leave him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, an<J
had scarce power to speak to him for some time $ but at last *i
turned to him, "How do you know this ?** said I: "Arc
you sure it is true ?"—" Yes,M says he; "I met this morning
in the street an old acquaintance of mine; an Armenian; wh<*
h among them; he came last from Astracan, and was design^
ing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, fetit h*J*.
altered his mind, and is noW resolved to go with the caravan^
to Moscow, and so down the rrver Wolga to Astracan."*^
cc Well, Seignior,** says I, " do not be uneasy about bein£
left to go back alone \ If this be a method for niy return ]&,
England, k shall be ydor fault if yovrgo back to Macao at all;'>
We then went to consult together what was to-be done ;• atfjji
I asked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news; a»*j .
whether it would suit with his affairs? He told me he wouW
do^^as J <wouM; <or he Jiad PSttledall his affairs so well at
Bengal>and left his effects in such good hands* that as we had
nia4e,a good voyage here, if he<ouldfy£$t~jt an, China silks,
Wrought and raw, such as might.be worth the,carriage, he
Would-be content to go>to,England, and then make his* voyage
bapfe to Bengal by the.Company'f ships,
. Haying resolv^ upon this,- we agreed that if. our Portuguese
pilot would go wjth us we would hear his charges to Mos-
cow, or to England, if he pleased) nor, indeed, were we to be
Esteemed oyer generous in that neither, if we had not reward-
ed him farther, the.service he had done us being really worth
rnore thap that; for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea,
but he had been like a broker for us on shore j and his pro*
puring fpr us the Japan .merchant was some hundreds of pounds
in our pockets, So we consulted together about it, and being
Willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice, and
very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a
quantity of coined gold, which,.as I compute it, came to,about
l75l. sterling, between us, and to bear all his charges, both
for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having ^settled, this between ourselves, we called him, to let
h\va, Xnpw^wbat we had resolved. I told him he had com-
plained of our being to Jet him go back alone, and I was now
to tell him we were resolved he should not go back at all j
that as we had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan* we
^sqlved also he should go with us; and that we called him to
know his,mind. He shook his head, and said, it was a long.
Journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither, or to sub-,
fist,,himself when he came there. We told him we believed
it w#s so, and therefore we had resolved to do something for
hini that should let him see how sensible we were of the ser^.
v»ce.he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us;
arujL then I told him what we had resolved to give him here,
which he might lay out as we would do our own j and that
a£,fpr?his charges, if he would go with us we would set him
safe- on shore (life and casualties excepted) either in Muscqyy
°rJEngland, which he would, at our own charge, except only.
% carriage of his goods. He received the proposal like,a
^n transported, and told .us he would go with us over the
^hpie wprld^j. and so we all prepared for our journey. How- *
H%i? ajLjt.wa with us, sq it was with the other merchants^
%#h'ad,-mai)y,*hings Xo dpj and instead of being ready* ia-
Muoy- M-r ;:,;, :,;.'; >.;-, -..--• ,,.'.,• .."• --i . '."
five weeks, it was four months and some days before all things
were gott6gether.
It was the beginning of February, our stile, when we set out
from Peking. My partner and the old pilot had gone express
back to the port where we Jiad first put in, to dispose of soM*5
goods which we had left there; and I, wttb a Chinese ivwf*
chant whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who
came to Peking on his own affairs* went to Nanquin, where A
bought ninety pieces of tine damasks, with about two hundred
pieces of other very fine silks of several sorts', some mixe"
with gold, and had all these brought to Peking against vhf
partner's return; besides this, we bought a very large quantify
of raw silk, and some other good*, our cargo amounting, in
these goods only, to about 85ool. sterling 5 which, together
with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three camels' loads 01
nutmegs and cloves* loaded in all eighteen camels for our
share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two or three
spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made us>
in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our retinue.
The whole company was very great, and, as near as I cart
remember, made between three and four hundred horse, and
upwards of one hundred and twenty men, very well arm-
ed, and provided for all events: for as the eastern caravan*
are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by tltf
Tartars -, but they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs*
nor so barbarous, when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations; bu|
there were above sixty of them merchants, or inhabitants 0*
Moscow, though of them some were Livontans; and, to otif
particular satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be men of great experience in business, and of very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who
were rive in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants/
that is to say, all the passengers except the servants, to a gretfj
council, as they called it. At this council every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces*
sary ex pence of buying forage on the way, where it was not
otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting
horses, and the like: and here they constituted the journey*
as they call it, viz. they named captains and officers to drflv
us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an &
tack, and give every one their turn of command} nor W*5'
this forming us into wd'ei* any more than what we found
heedful upon the way, as shall be observed.
The road all on this side of the country' i£ very populous,
and is full of potters and earth makers, that is to say, people
that temper the earth for the China-ware; and as I was
coming alongj our Portugal pilot, who had always something
or other to say to make4 us merry, "came sneering to me, and
told me he would show me the greatest rarity in all the coun-
try, and that I should have this- to say of China, after all the
iU-humoured things I frad said of it, that I had seen one thing
which was not to be seen in all the World beside. I Was very
importunate to know what it was: at last he told me it was
a gentleman's house built with China-ware. 4t Well," says I,
*' are not the materials of their buildings the product of their
own country, and so it is all China-warej is it not ?"«*w
"No; no," says he^ ** I mean it is a house all made of China-
Ware* such as you call it in England, or as it is called in our
country, porcelain."—u Well;" says I, *< such a thing may
be; how big is it? Cair we carry it in a box upott a: darnel?
If we can, we will buy it."—"" Upon a camel!" says the old1
pilot, holding up both his-hands; "why there is a family of
thirty people lives in it.'*
Ivwasf theft curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to
it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house
built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster 5 but all
this plastering was really China*Ware, that is fa say, it was
Mastered With the earthf that makes China-ware. The out-
side, which the suri slidrie hot upon, was glazed, and looked*
very well, perfectly white,' arid painted With blue figures, as the
large China-ware in England is painted, and hard as if it had
been burned. As to the inside, all the Walls, instead of wain-
scot, were lined with hardened and painted tiles, like the little
square tiles We call galley-tiles in England* all made of the
finest Chitfa, and the figures exceeding fine, indeed, with ex-
traordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold; many tiles
tnakiflgbut one figure, but joined so artificially, the mortar
being made of the same earth, that it was very hard to see
where the tile* met. The floors of the rooms were of the
same"composition,, and as hard as the earthen* floors we have in
Use in several parts of England; as hard as stone,-and smooth,
but not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms, like
closets, which were all as it were paved with the same tile:
*fe ceiling, and till the plastering work in the whole house,
Were of the same earth; and, after ally the roof was covered
with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black. This was
a China-warehouse, indeed, truly and literally to be called so;
and had I not been upon the journey, I could have staid some
days to see and examine the particulars of it. They told tno
there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved
on the bottom and sides with the same j and fine statues set
up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the poreeto111
earth, and burned whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may *f
allowed to excel in it} but I am very sure they excel in thejf
accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things of their
performance in crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not
to relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, lfl
particular, of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle,
and masts and sails, in earthen-ware, big enough to carry
fifty men. If they had told me he launched it, and made a
voyage to Japan in it, I might have said something to it, in*
deed; but as it was, I knew the whole of the story, which
was, in short, asking pardon for the word, that the fellow lied J
so I smiled, and said nothing to it.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for
which the leader of it for the day fined me about the value of
three shillings; and told me, if it had been three days jour-
ney without the wall, as it was three day* within, he must
have fined me four times as much, and made me ask pardorf
the next council day: I promised to be more orderly; and,
indeed, I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all
together were absolutely necessary for our common safety.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made fof
a fortification against the Tartars $ and a very great work it *5*
going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no eneni/
could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did*
no wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a
thousand English miles, hut that the country is five hundred
in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without
measuring the windings and turnings it takes'? it is about fo^[
fathoms high, and as many thick in some places. /
I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing
our orders (for sb long the caravan was in passing the gate)
to look at it on every side, near and far off, I mean that waj
within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who had *
been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty*
eager to, bear my opinion of it. I told him it was a mo#t ex«
telleot thing to keep out the Tartars j which he happened not
to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment 5
kut the old pilot laughed: "O, Seignior Inglese," says he,
*r you speak in colours."—" In colours!" said 1$ *c what do
you mean by that ?"—" Why you speak what looks white this
Way, and black that way j gay one way, and dull another. You
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars 5 you tell me by
that it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand
you,. Seignior Inglese $ I understand you; but Seignior Chinese
Understood you his own way."—t( Well," says I, "Seignior,
do you think it would stand out an army of our country people,
with a good train of artillery, or our engineers, with two com-
panies of miners? Would not they batter it down in ten days,
that an army might enter in battalia j or blow it up in the air,
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left ?"—*
"Aye, aye," says he, « I know that." The Chinese wanted
mightily to I:now what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him
a few days after, for we were then almost out of their country,
and he was to leave us in a little time after this; but when
he knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of the way,
and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese power
und greatness while he stayed.
After we passed this mighty wall, something like the Picts,
and so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we
began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject
to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great
armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked in-
habitants of an open country. And here I began to find the
Necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we travelled, for
^e saw several troops of Tartars roving about j but when I
came to see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese
Empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for
they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no order, and
tHiderstanding no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses
are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit for nothing;
Q«d this we found the first day we saw them, which was after
^entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for the
<% gav^ leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they
call it,* and what was this but hunting of sheep j however, it
^aybe called bunting too, for the creatures are the wildest
a&d swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they
^til not run a great way, and you are sure of sport when you
begin thechase, for they appear generally.thirty or forty in a
flock, and, like true sheep, always }ceep together when-the)
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to ntfe
with about forty Tartars; whether they were hunting mutton
as we were, or whether they looked for another kind of pre/|
we knew not* but as. soon as they saw us, one of them D[eW\
kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I ?aa
never heardbefore, and, by the way, never care to hear pg*in'
we all supposed this was to call their friends about them, 3J?
so it was -j for in less than ten minutes a troop of forty or f»v
more appeared at about a mile distance -, but our work *'*
over first, as it happened, ^
One of the. Scots merchants of Moscow happened to oe
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the horn he told us W
we had nothing to do but to chargethem immediately, withpo
loss of time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we wee
resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him j so ne
rode directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like »
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the face oi
any order at all j but as soon as they saw us advance, ibey^
fly their arrows, which, however, missed us very happily *']
seems they mistook not their aim, but; their distance; forth*1
arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, tW
had we been about twenty yards- nearer, we must have W°
several men wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance*
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, f°.1'
lowing our shot full gallop, to fall in among- them sword JJ1
hand, for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed*
but a merchant, but he behaved with, that vigour and braver)
on.this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that'
to them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and, tne*
bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, withc)^
asking any body to follow him, gallops up clpse to them, 3^
with his fusee knocks one of them off his horse, killed tne^l
cond with his pistol, and the third ran^way i and thus-ende
pur fight: hut we had this misfortune attending it, tbaH^*
our mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a &*
billed or hurt % but ssfor.the Tartars* there were about >five of
them killed} hpw many wer& .wounded we knew not; but
this we knew, that the other party were so frightened with
*he.noise of our guns, that they made off, and never made
Any attempt upon us.
We were all this while, in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in
About five days we entered a vasV great wild desert, which
tald us three days and nighty march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to en-
camp all night, just as I have heard they do in the Desert of
Arabia.
I asked our guides whose dominion this was in; and they
told me this was a kind of border, that might be called no
Hian's land, being a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tar-
tary$ but* however,, it was all reckoned as belonging to China,
but that there was no care taken here to: preserve it from the
broads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the _.worst
desert in the whole march, though we were to go over' some
*Uuch larger.
In passing this wilderness, which was at ifirst very frightful
to me* we saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartars,
but they seemed to be- upon their own affairs, and to have no
design upon us: and so, like the man who met the devil, if
they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to.them.-,
^e let them go. Once, however, a,party of them came so Dear
*s to stand and gaze.at .us j whether it was to consider if they
should-attack us or not, we knew not; but when we were
Passed at some distance by them, we made a rear guard of forty
fnen, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan pass half a
^ile or thereabouts before us: but after a while they marched
°ff; only we found they saluted us with five arrows at their
Parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him,
&od we left him the next day, poor creature, in great need of
3 good farrier: they might shoot more arrows, which might
fell short of us, but- we saw no more of them that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways nothing
^ .good as at first, though "still in the dominions ;of the
^toperor of China* but lay for the most part in villages, some
°f,which were fortified, because of the incucsjons of the Tar-
tors, When we were come to one ^of these towns, (it was
Sbout two, days and a h#lf journey before we: were to come .to
toe city of Naum,) I wanted to buy a camel, of which there
9re plenty to be sold all the way upon that xoad, and horses
'^2 'inrk&TXtRzs or
pKo, ^ifckfls they are, tecause'so- ftariy c^bvans ctouig^
,>v:ay.lt3fey; ar# "often wanted.. The person that! spoke Wtd?
irpe, a'camet/, wdutd have gone and fetched one for ni^Y^
M^'liKe a |bol, rriust be officious, and go myself along withhim '•
\ the place'was about two miles out of the Village; ^herej
seems,they kept the-carriels lahd horses feedingunder^gu^'
I walked1 it on foot, with my old pilot ami V Chinese;1 he^
very desirous of a little variety. When W'came'to thepl^'
it wa£a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall?
piled up dry, without mortar br earth amom£ it, like a pai'M
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers arthe YJdor.* Having
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came awaf^nd
the Chineseman that went with me led the camel, when 0°
a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback j *two of then*
seized the fellow and took the camel from him, while tne
x>ther three stepped up tome and my old pilot, seeing ns,;^5
it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but rr>y
sword, which could but ill defend me against three-horsetriefl'
Ma £rst that came up stopped short upon my drawing* ^
swoxcl, 4br they are arrant cowards j but a second coming W
pii.my.Jeft, gave me a blow on the head, which Inever W
till afterwards, and wondered, when I came to myself, iW*
was. the, matter, and where I was, for he laid me-rlat on u1
ground;..'but my never failing old pilot, the Portuguese1,  '*°
Providence, unlooked for, directs dM\verances "From dang*";
which to us are unforeseen,) had a pistol in'his'pocket, w^j
I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars neither) if they* had, *
suppose they would not have attacked us; but cdwards are*?1*
ways boldest when there is no danger. The old man s&\p$
me down, with a bold heart stepped Up to the fellow'-'tjp
had'struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand,•&>
pulling him down by main force a little towards hint with tn
vother> shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the $p°
He then immediately stepped up to him who had Sto&ped &>
as I said, and before he could come forward agarnymad6 ^
blow at him with a scimitar which he always wore, btft rhi^
:ing the man, cut his horse in the side of his Head, cut tyf\°c
the ears off by the root, and a great slice down bf thetfd£°
his-face.. The poor beast, enraged with the wound, wa$^
more to be governed by his rider, though the fellow sat ^e,
enough too, but away he flew, and carried him quite out ,
the pilot's reach 3 and at some distance rismg Upon his hi*1
legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him. -e
In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost u*
JiCatne}> but;be,had nq, weapon.; .however,, seeing the Tartar
; dqwn, and his horse fallen upon htm, away he furis to him^ and
-seizing, upon, an ugly ill favoured weaportjheTiad'by his side,
something Jike a/pole-axe,lie wrenched it from him; and made
j shift*to knock hU Tartarian brains qut with it. But, my old
man hadsthe third Tartar, to deal with still j andlseeirig he did
1 qotfiy^as he,expected, -nor come on toiight him, as he appre-
« , hended, but stand stock-still, the old man stood still too, and
fell to work with his tackle, to charge his pistol again; but as
soon as ,the Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left
my. ipilot, my champion I called him afterwards> a complete
victory.
By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought, when -
I first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep} but,
, as I said above, I wondered were I was, how I came upon the
ground, fand what was the matter; but a few moments after,
¥ as sense,returned, I felt pai^, though I did not know where;
so I clapped my band to my head, and took it away bloody;
, then I felt my head ache -} and then, in a moment, memory
returned, and every thing was. present to me again. I jumped
Upon.my feet instantly, arid got hold of rny ^word, but no ene-
: rnies jn.yiew;. I found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse stand-
I ^g^yeryi quietly by him', and, looking farther, I Saw my cham-
, pio^ar^d deliverer., who had been to see what the Chinese had
^ done, coming back with his hanger in his hand t the old man,
seejng me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me
] with a .great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been
-kijje^.anri seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt j
i but^it waj not rrmqh, only what we call a broken head; neither
: did fl afterward? find any great inconvenience from the blow,
i fpr^t was, well again in two or three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we
lost a,camel and.gained a,horse$ but that which was remark-
able, >vben we,came, back to the village, the man demanded
.. to, be pa/id for the, camel j I disputed it, and it was brought to
, a hearipg-hefore the Chinese judge of the place. To give him -m
his ^3ue, he acted with a great deal of prudence, andjmpar-
> tiaiityj and, having heard both sides, he gravelv asked the
>\ Chineseman that we.nt with me to buy the camel whose servant
! he\was| if'fjl.am no servant," says he, " but went with the
i strangerr"—u At whose request,?" says the justice. u At the
L strangers request," says he. "Why then," says tbejustice,
* « you were* the stranger's servant for the time; and the camel
s-v vol. xi. K
being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he
must payfor it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to
say: bat, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the conse-
quence, and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for
the camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe, I did
not go to fetch it myself any more, for I had had enough of
that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire; they
call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this
I will venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay*
which, I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the
wall's with their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it
were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who un-
derstand it laugh at you.
. We wanted, as I have said, above two days journey of this
city, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road to tell all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a
guard sent for them; for that an unusual body of Tartars,
making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about
thirty miles beyond the city.
This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was care-
fully done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we
should have £ guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our
left, and three hundred more1 from the city of Naum, and with
these we advanced boldly \ the three hundred soldiers from
Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and
our men on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and
the whole caravan in the center \ in this order, and well pre-
pared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole
ten thbusand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared j but the
next day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.
It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well
situated little town, called Changn, we had a river to pass,
which we were obliged to ferry \ and, had the Tartars had any
intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when
the caravan being over, the rear guard was behind; but they
did hot appear there. About three hours after, when we were
entered upon a deseft of about fifteen or sixteen mileis over,
behold, b'y a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy* was
at hand; and they were at hand, indeed, for they came ©ft
ujpon ttoe spur.  •
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger j and the soldiers frequently
looked behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that
he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of,my mind \
andi being near hie, called out, " Seignior Inglese,'* says he>
tc those fellows most be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
for if the Tartars come on, they will never stand it."—.*' I
am of your mind," said I; "but what must be done ?"—
"Doner* says he, "let fifty of our men advance, and flank
them on each wing, and encourage them j, and they will fight
like brave Fellows, in brave company $ but, without this, they
will every man turn his back.** Immediately I rode up to our
leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and ac*
cordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to
the left, and the rest made a line of rescue; and so we marched,
leaving the last two hundred men to make a body by themselves,
and to guard the camels; only that, if need were, they should
send an hundred men to assist die last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable com-
pany they were :" how many we could not tell, but ten thou-
sand, we thought, was the least: a party of them came on first
and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the front of
our line j and, as. we found them within gun-shot, our leader
ordered the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo
on each wing with their shot, which was done; but they went
off, arid I suppose back, to give an account of the reception
they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute cloyed
their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood a while to
consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over their
design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent
fdr a battle with such a number.
^wb days after this we came to the city of Naun, or Naum;
we thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to
the value of an hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave
td'tnW soldiers sent to guard us 5 and here we rested one day,
Tnis is a garrison, indeed*," and there were nine hundred soldiers
"kejpt bfcre 5 but the reason pf it was, that formerly the Musco-
vite frontiers lay nearer to them than they nowdo, the Musco-
vite^ liavtng abandoned that part of the country, which lies
tfrdni'this city west for about two .hundred miles, as desolate
ahcf Cinfit for use 5 ^nd more especially being so very remote,
and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence: for we had
yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful
deserts $ one of which we were sixteen days passing over } and
which, as I said, was to be called no man's larid 5 and, on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite do-
minions. I think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may
be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called
Arguna, being on the west side of the river Arguna.
I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was
so soon arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at
least, in a country governed by Christians; for though the
Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of
Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very devout
in their way. It would certainly occur to any man who tra-
vels the world as I have done, and who had any power of
reflection, what a blessing it is to be brought into the world
where the name of God and a Redeemer is known, adored,
and worshipped; and not where the people, given up by
Heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate
themselves to stocks and stones -, worship monsters, elements,
horrid-shaped animals, and statues or images of monsters. Not
a town or city we passed through but had their pagods, their
idols, and their temples, and ignorant people worshipping even1
the works of their own hands. Now we came where, at least,
a face of the Christian worship appeared j where the knee was
bowed to Jesus \ and whether ignorantly or not, yet the-Chris-
tian religion was owned, and the name of the true God wa#
called upon and adored, and it made my soul rejoice to see
it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned above
with my first acknowledgment of this j and taking hfrn by
the hand, I said to him, " Blessed be God, we are once again
amongst Christians." He smiled, and answered, " Do not
rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but art
odd sort of Christians j and but for the name of it, you may
see very little of the substance for some mbnths farther of our
journey. "Well," says I, '< but still it Is better than paganism
and worshipping of devils."—" Why, I will tell you," says hd,
"except the Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the
inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this cotm>
try, for above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst
and most Ignorant of pagans:" and so, indeed, we fquftd )V>
We Were'now launched into the greatest piece, of sorufcearthv
if 1 understand any thing of the surface of the globe, thatis tobe
found in any part of the world; we had, at least, twetoe thou>
sand miles to the sea,' eastward 1 two thousand to the bottom
orthevBahtc sea* westward; and above three thousand, if we
left that sea and went on west, to the British and French
channels; we had full five thousand miles to the Indian or
Persian sea,, south $ and about eight hundred to the Frozen sea,
north, t Nay, if some people may be believed, there might be
no fcea, north-east, till we came round the pole, and con-
sequently into the north-west, and so had a continent of land
into America, the Lord knows where; though I could give
some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while
before we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to
observe there but this j first, that all the rivers run to the
east: as I understood by the charts, which some in our cara-
van had with them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the
great river Yamour, or Gamour $ which river, by the natural
course of it* must run into the East sea, or Chinese Ocean.
The. story they tell us, that the mouth of this river is choaked
up with-bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz. three feet about,
and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say, I be-
lieve nothing of yfbut, as its navigation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone be-
longs, d&aling in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I
heard of, has been curious enough either to go down to the
mouth of it in«boats, or come up from the mouth of it in ships,
as far as I can find: but this is certain, that this river running
east, in the latitude of about fifty degrees, carries a vast con-
course of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to empty
itself ir* that latitude $ so we are sure of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of ihis river there are several
considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the
Yamoqr runs east, and these are all found to join their waters
with the great river Tartarus, named so from the northernmost
nations of the Mogul Tartars 5 who, as the Chinese say, were
the first Tartars in the world; and who, as our geographers
allege, are the Gog and Magpg mentioned in sacred story.
'These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other
rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the northern
ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does not
seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend it-
self to join with America on that side, or that there is not a
communication between the. northern and eastern ocean; but
of this I <sball say.wx,more;; it vvas my observation at that
time, and therefore I take notice of^it in this place. \
We. now advanced from,the riverArgun^t/by easy and
moderate journies, and were very visibly, obliged-to tfce cara
the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns buiU
in as many places as it is possible to place then}, where-his
soldier/* keep garrison^ something like the stationary solders
placei by the Romans in the remotest countries of their em-
pire j some of which that I had read of were* placed itt
Eritain, for the security of commerce, and for the, lodging
travellers; and thus it was here 5 for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and gpvernora-
were Russians and professed Christians, yet tjie inhabitants
were mere pagans; sacrificing to idols> and worshipping the
sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of beayen j and not only
so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat
men's flesh, as our savages of America did,
Some instances of this we met with in the country between
Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city
of Tartars and Russians together, called Nortziousky, in which
is a continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to
travel over. In a village, near the last pf these places, I had
the curiosity to go and see their way of living* whici* is, most
brutish and unsufferable: they had, I suppose, a great sacri-
fice that day j for there stood out, upon an oJd stump of a
tree, an idol, made of wood, frightful as the,devil> *t least, as
any thing we pan think of to represent the deviloan be made 1
it had a bead not so much as resembling any creature *tfcat the
world ever saw; ears as big as goats' horns, and as high 5
eyes as big as a crown-piece 5 a nose like a crooked ram's
horn, and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a
lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's underbill: it
was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose;
its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward j
a great Tartar bonnet on the head, "with two horns grouting
through it: it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or
legs, or any other proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village f
and, when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen
creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, fox they
make uo distinction by their habits, all laying flat upon the
ground round this formidable block of shapeless wood: I
saw no motion among, them any more, than if they had been
all logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought
they had , been so $ but, wheri I came a little nearer* they
started up upon their feet, and raised a fowling cry, as if it
had been so mapy deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away,
as if they were c displeased at our disturbing them. A little
way off from the idol, atid at the-door of a "tent or hut, made
all of sheep-skins and cows-skins dried, stood three butchers,
—I thought they were such; when I came nearer to them, I
found they had long knives in their hands 5 and in the mid-
dle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young
bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that
senseless log of an idol; the three men were priests belong*
ing to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the
people who brought the 'offering, and were making their pray-
ers to that stock.
I confess, I was more moved at there stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at any thing in my
life; to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom
he had granted so many advantages, even by creation above
Ihe rest of the works of his hands4 vested with' a reasonable
soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities
adapted both'to honour his Maker and be honoured by him,
sunk and degenerated to a degree so very stupid as to prostrate
itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary object, dressed
up by themselves^ and made terrible to themselves by their
own*contrivance, adorned only with clouts- and rags 5 and that
this should be-the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into
hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envying to his
Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think
ahouk} shock nature itself!
* But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of
thoughts; 5 thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, arid there
was no room to wonder at it, or think it impossible: all my
admiration turned to rage, and I rode up to the image or mon-
ster, call it what you will, and with my sword made a stroke at
the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one
of our men that was with me took hold of the sheepskin' that
covered it, and pulled at it; when, behold, a most hideous
outcry and howling ran through the village, and' two or three
hutldred people came about my ears, so that'I was glad to
scbur for it, for we saw some had bows and arrows"? but 1
resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was
about four miles off, in order to provide some horses which
they wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and
jaded with the badness of the way, and long march over tim
last desert 5 so we had some leisure here to put my design tr|
execution. I communicated my design to the Scots merchant
200 ^DvteN^itHttirtf*
tif'Mo&ow^3>f whdsewtfragM had ^fficlenf te^toonyr' 1
told him*1wfcatr1 had seen, and with'what" indignatidn* I ft^d
sittce thought that human riaturV could be so degenerate; I
told him, if I could get blitfSut or five men weirarmedVg0
with me* I was resolved to gb and destroy that vile, abomina-
ble idol, and let them £ee that it had ho power to help itself?
and consequently could' not bd'au object of worthy, or to be
prayed to, much less help them that offered sacrifice's1 to it.
He laughed at me:-*~says he,f **• Your zeal may be good,
but what do you propose to yourself by it ?'—" Propose!"
said I, " to vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by
this devil-worship."—<( But how will it vindicate the honour
of God/* said he, " while the people will not be able to know
what you mean,by it, unless you could speak to them, and tell
them so? and then they will fight you, and beat you too, I'll
assure you; for they are desperate fellows, and that especially
in defence of their idolatry/'—" Can we not," said I, "do It
in the night, and then leave them the reasons and the causes
in writingin their own language ?"—" Writing!" said he;
*' why there is not a man in five nations of them that krjqWf*
anything of a letter, or how to read a word any way/%*•
"Wretched ignorance!** said I to him: "however,\f haWa
great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw inferences fVorri
it to them, to let them see how brutish they aire to worship
such horrid things/'^-" Look you, Sir,*' said he, "if yourieal
prompts you to it so warmly, you must do ft j tftt;?n;tt& iiixt
place, I would have you consider, these wild nations of pe#pie
are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominion/and
if you do tbis, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands
to the governor of Nertsinskay, and demand satisfaction; and
if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to One but they
revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars/it*
the country." * . *.
This, f confess, pot new thoughts into my head for a wfcife,
but I still found that my inclination increased for executing
the project I had been forming to destroy the monster;"if
it were - possible to do it with any safety: and upon meeting
the Scots merchant by accident the next evening, and consult-
ing him again, I found he was grown as earnest for it as my-
self; so we sat down to contrive how we should effectually
execute our purpose: and when we had laid the sctome* f6
our minds, with the assistance of a trusty companion, iarid &
servant or two, we went out privately, and came'up to their
priests in the night j and Ihen, by a stratagem, having confined
theman# tfcefc^attendapte; iu tbeu; hpuse/;or temVwe puffed
.wil^-iiJ^ -Aft- #£• ^tnv idoWwputh^nd ears ^.and, ^Ubiihe
/a^dUipn-Pf other combustible stuff^^s fcurned .the frightful
jmag^ Jp ashes^ without^ing apprehended, 0~ ;**;
f ^ffcej: tjie^feat wasftfrfonDe^ we appeared? irj the.motntng
among ;q^r/fel^Q^K^tray«^^r*lJ^xce^d^l>gly i?usy in getting, fready
&rour journey,} nor? .could .any man suggest tb^t we had been
any where but'iu our beds, aa travellers .might'be supposed jo
be* to, fit themselves, fpr,the fatigues of the day's journey,
, iufc t^e\ affair did not end so,} the next day came a great
qu^berof the country people to the tpwn-gajtes, and in a most
outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian go-
vernor for the in,suiting their priests, and burning their great
Cham Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nertsinskay were at first
in a great consternation, for they said the Tartars, were already
nQ..lessftbanv thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor
sent pat messengers to appease them, and gave them all the
good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew nothing
of it,, ajid that there had not a soul in bis garrison been/abroad,
so that it could not be from any body there 5 but if they cpuld
let hjrn know, who did it, they should be exemplarily punished.
They retiirne& haughtily that all the country reverenced1 the
greV „Cham Cht-vThaungu, who dwelt in the suiv> and no idof-
tal^woul(d,navejdared to offer violence to his image but some
Christian miscreant j and they therefore resolved to denounce
war against him and all the Russians^ who* they said*! were
miscreants, ^n<J Christians.
.^e^ov^mor, still patient,and unwilling to make a breach,
or io lave any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the
CzaV having strictly charged him to treat the conquered
country with gentleness and civility, gave them still all the,
good words he could. At last he told them there was a carar;
van gone towards Russia that morning, and perhaps it was
some of them who had done them this injury j and that if-(bey
would be satisfied with that, he would send after them to in-
quire jinip it. *^pis seemed,to appease them a little; and ac*
cordipgty Jjhe governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account* how the thing was * intimating witfial, tha.t if any in
our caravan, ^ad done it, they should make their escape j but
t^at^hei^er we Jiad,done it, or no, we should make all the
has^orward that .was possible,* and that, in the rneart time,
Jjiej^uid keep t^em in^play as long as he could,
7il$is )xra£v^ however, whe^ it
came jib the caraViajv therp was nobody knew any thing of tf\$
202 ADVflfl^KtfS $rT
matte*^ ftmi^foi-ttfrth^^^ gtiikjv^e were the le^st&Nft
suspected. However, the captain or the caravari ftktfte tirne
todkthe hint* that the goveVrior gave uV^Tid^w^ travelled two
days and two nights without any considerable $tdf*,* afid then
we; Jar at a village called Plothus! nor did wemake* any* long
stop here, but hastened on towards JafciweBay ahotfaer of'tne
Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and whei^w^expec<eyiwc,4hbttM
be safe. But upon the second days tna^ch from l?Kith\is, 'by
the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, iornt- of ottf
people began to be sensible we were pursued.* We1 *had en-
tered a great desert, and had" passed bj* & £reat lake called
Schaks Oser, when we perceived a very great ^Iody 6F hofst?
appear on the other^side of the lake, to the north, we travel-
ling west. We observed they went away west; as we did, but
had supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, where-
as we very happily took the south side; and in two days' riiore
they disappeared again: for they believing wc Were still before
them, pushed on till they came to the river Udda, a very great
river whert it passes farther north, but where we came to it we
found it narrow and fordable. ''
The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had
intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us-towards the
dusk of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just
pitched upon a place for our camp which was very convenient
for the* night j for as-we were upon a desert, tbpugft bVit at tfie
beginning of it, that was above five hundred'nrrfe? or<*f, "-we
had no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected4norre but the
city Jarawena, which we had* yet two days march"to; \hts
desert, however, had some, few woods in it on thfs side, aW
little rivers, wtitch ran all into the great river Udda; it Vas
in a narrow strait, between little, but very thick Wtfods*, ;nYac'
we pitched our little camp for that night, e'xpedtirig to be:
attacked before morning. A 'f
Nobody knew but oursekes what we were pumibd fof': /tittt
as it was tisnal for the Mogul Tartars to go aboilt fb* trbo|te in
that desert, so the caravans always' forfff^-themselves every"
night against them, as against atfnieisMof robbbrs ^"anft'it was
therefore no-riew*thing to be ptirsued'. ', :"J' "-"•' •" v-
But we had thrfe ni^it, of all the nights of'our thiols/a.
most advantageous camp; for we fey between twb" woods,
with a little rrntlet running just before ottr front, so tlvat'*we"
could not be surrounded, or attacked any way but iri our front
or rear.' We took care also to make our front aY strong as
we could, by placing our packs, with our camels and horses,
K0BWlO*9'•CRUSOE. 203
fallin a. line, on the inside of the-river/ and felling some trees
in pur, pear* ,*.*,. ., ,r- ,,;
In this posture we encamped for the night $ but the enemy
was np9n us before we?rhad finished -our situation* They did
jnot comaxai utf like'thieves, as we expected, but sent three
messengers to us^to-demand the men*to be delivered to them
'that'had abused their priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-
.Thaungu with fire, that they might burn them with fire; and
upon this, they said.'they-would go away, and do us no far-
ther; harmi otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men
looked very blank at this message, and began to stare at one
another, tp see who looked with die most guilt in their faces:
but, nobody was the word 5 nobody did it. The deader of the
caravan sent word he was well assured that it was not clone
by any of our camp 5 that-we were peaceable merchants, tra-
velling on our business j that we had done no harm to them
or to any one else y and that, therefore> they must look farther
for their enemies who had injured them, for we were not the
people 5 so desired them cot to desturb us, for, if they.did, we
should defend ourselves. /
They were far from being, satisfied with this for an answer j
and a great crowd of them Came running down in the morn-
ing, by break of day, to our camp $ but seeing us in such an
unaccountable situation, they durst come no farther than the
brook in our front,, where they stood,, and showed us such a
number that indeed terrified us very much ^ for those that
epoke least of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood
and looked at us ai.while, and then setting up a great howl,
they let fly a cloud" of arrows among us; but we were well
enough fortified for that, for we-sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remerhber that onfc of us was hurt.
Sometime after this, we saw them move a little to our right,
and expected therri on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a
Gossack of Jarawena, in die pay of the Muscovites, calling to
the leader of the caravan, said to him, "Til go send all these
pedple away to* Siheilka 3" this was a crty four or five days
jOjirney, at least,- to the right, and rather behind us. So h6
. takes his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, he rides
away from oaf rearr directly, as it were back to Hertsinskay;
gtfter tbra, he takes a great circuit-about, and corner directly on
Uie army of* the Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell
them a long, story, that the people who had burnt the Clia'ttl
Chi-Tbaungu were gone to Siheilka, with a caravan of mis-
204 ADiruifTLHUM OF
creanU,,as fae^Jkd tl*en*,;*hafc i*to say, CEristians ;aftd th^t
they had.resolved to burn the god: Schal-Isar, belonging Jo
the Tongueses. -._>-;.* . :* " .. . '—j :.
As tfw* fellow-was,hi0|9ejf a mere- Tartar, and, perfectly
spoke their,language^ he counterfeited so weU, that they all
took it from hjn>, and away tbey;drove irt a most violeot har-
ry toSiheilka, which, it seems, was five days journey to the
north i and in less than three hours they were entirely out of
our sight, and we never heard any moreof them, nor whether
they went to Siheilka or no. So we passed away safely ou to
Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Muscovites j and there
we rested five days \ the caravan being exceedingly fatigued
with the last day's hard march, and with want of rest in the
night.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us
twenty-three days march. We furnished ourselves wtitb some
tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the
night) and the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages,
or waggons of the country, for carrying our water or provi-
sions j and these carriages were our defence, every nighty
rouruj our; little camp j so that had the Tartars appeared,. tin*
less they hap! been very numerousindeed, they would nothave
been able to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again *ften .this
long.jpurnejr* for in this desert we neither saw house ^entreey
and scarce a bush$ though we saw abundance of, the sable
hunters, who are all Tartars of the Mpgul Tartary, of which
this country is a part j and they frequently attack small cara*
vans, but we .saw no numbers of them together*;
After we had nassed this desert, we came into a country
pretty well inhabited} that is to $ay9 we found Aowns and
castles, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrison* of
stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans, and defend the
country against the Tartars, who would otherwise, make it
very dangerous travelling j and his Czarish majesty hasgiren
such strict orders for tije well guarding the caravan* .and roer*:
chants, that, if there are any Tartars heard of in the country*
detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see, the tra*
vellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor of
Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by.
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with himy
offered us 4 guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any
danger, to the next station.
I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to
Europe we should,find, the country better inhabited, and the
people more* civilised* ..hut I ftmnd^mysietf mistaken in both *
for we had yet the nation of the Tongueses to pais through,
where we saw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as
before j only, as they were conquered by the Muscovites, they
were not so dangerous j but for rudeness of manners, and idol-
atry, no people in, the world «ver went beyond them; tftey
are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their houses are built of
the same; you know not a man from a woman, neither by
the rugg^dness of their countenances or their clothes -, and in
the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
under-ground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to
another.
If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a. whole
village or country, these had idols in every hut and every
cave; besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the
snow* and, in a word, every thing they do not understand, and
they understand but very little; so that every element, every
uncommon thing, sets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing
peculiar to myself in all this country, which I reckon was,
from toe desert I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles,
half of it being another desert, which took us up twelve days
severe travelling, without house or tree; and were obliged
again.to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread.
After we were out of this desert, and had travelled two days*
we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or sjtation on the great
river Janezay, which, they told as there, parted Enrobe from
Asia. . v .-;..!.'.
Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed> ex*
cept in the Muscovite garrisons; all the country between the
river Oby and the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and
the people as barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars y nay,
as any nation, for ought I know, in Asia or America. I also
found, which I observed to the Muscovite governors whom I
had an opportunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not
much-wiser, or nearer Christianity, for being under the Mus*
covttejgoveroment, which they acknowledged was true*enougb>
but that, as they said, was none of their business $ that if the
Crar expected to convert his Siberian, Tonguese, Or Tartar
subjects, it should be done by sending clergvmen among them,
not soldiers j and, they added, with more sincerity than I ex-
pected, that they found it was not so much the concern of
their monarch to make the people Christians as it was to
make them subjects.
From tins river to the gt^at river Oby, we crossed a wild
uncultivated country, barren of people and good management,
©therwise if Is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable
country. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, ex-
cept such as are sent among'diem from Russia: for this is the
country, I mean- on both- sides* the river Oby, whither &e
Muscovite criminals that are not put to- death are banished,
and from whence it is next to•impossible they should ever
come away* *
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till
I came to Tobolski, the capital city, of Siberia, where I con-
tinued, some time on the following occasion* l
We had now been almost seven months on our journey*
and winter began to come on apace; whereupon my partner
and I called a council about our particular affairs, in which we
found it proper, as we were bound for England, and not f<*r
Moscow, to consider Bow to dispose of ourselves* They told
us of sledges and rein deer to carry us'' over the snow in. the
winter t:.m$;- ahd>> indeed, they have-snch things that it would
be incredible* to>relate the particulars ofy by which means ihe
Russians travel more -in the whiter than they can in sumnjer,
tis in'these sledges* they are abte td run night and day4) the
'*n$w being frozen, U one universal covering to nature, by
which the hills*, vales/ rivers and lakes are all smooth and hard
as a'sUmterand* they*runjupon,the surfeoe, without any regard
-to ^hat is uwdemeatfh * ^ .,-;'....
Butjhad no occasion to push at a winter journey of thH
kind j I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my roule
4ay two ways j either* I* must go on as the caravan Went* till 1
came' to Jkroskw, arkl then go off west'for rtfarro, and the
gu^h^ofiRnland,* andso toDant^C) where I might possibly
eeU'iity'Chkra cargo to good* advantage *, or I must leave the
•caravan 4t a little tow-n on thevDwina, from whence I had bat
«ikidays by watec to Archangel, and from thence might be
*ure dffshipping eitberta England, Holland; or Hamburgh.
*S7owv to go-any of these jo-arhies id the winter would haye
been preposterous j: f^r as to Danfczic, the 'Baltic would. haT6
fceert frozfen up* and I could not get passage; and to go by
land fn^those countries was far less safe than among the M6g11*
Tartrfityj' likewise, to go;tb Archangel in pctober, all thesfyj^
would be gone from thencey and even the merchants who dw^"
thei«e in summer retire south to Moscow in the -winter, "whe?1
thesh-ipsi -are gone; so that I <*oiild have nothing, but extrernity
of cold to* encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and ttftts*'
iie*in an empty town-all the w4nter: ;so that, upou the whole,
X thought it much my better way^to M^tbe^caravan go, and
make provision to winter where I was, at Tobolsk!, in Siberia,
in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of
three things to wear out a cold winter with, vte. plenty of
provision^ such as the countty afforded, a: warm house,, with
fuel enough/ and excellent company. ,  < . *
I was now in a quite different climate from my beloved
island, where I never felt cold* except when: I had-my ague;
on the contrary, I had- much to do to bear any clothes on my
back, and never made any fire buthwithout doors,, which was
necessary for dressing my food, &c. Now I made me three
good vestsy with large robes or»gowns over themr to hang down
to the feet, and button close to the wrists-} ana* all these lined
with furs, to make them sufficiently warm.
As to a warm house, I must confess 1 greatly disliked our
way in England of making fires in every room in the iiouse in
open chimnies, which, when the fae was out, always kept the
air in the room cold as the climate j but taking an apartment
in^a -good house in the towiv, I ordered a: chimney to be built
like a furnace,- in the center ofsix several rooms, like a stove;
the funnel to carry the smoke went up one: way, the door to
.come at the fire went in another, and ail .the^ropms were kept
equally warm,* but no fire seen, just as they heat the bagnios
in England; By this means, we had always the sam$ climate
in all the rooms, and an equal heat wa* preserved j and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within j and
yet we-saw no fire,, nor were ever incommoded withusmoke*
The'most wonderful thing of alkwas, that it should,be pos-
sible to meet with good company here, in a country so barbar-
ous <as that of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the
Frozen ocean, within but a very few degrees-of Nova Zembla.
But this being the country where the.state criminals of Mus-
covy > as* I observed before, are all banished, this city>,was full
pf;noblernen, gentlemen, soldier*, and courtiers- Qf Muscovy.
Here-was^ the famous prince Gallitzen^ the; old .general,
Bobostiski, and. several other persons of «ote, and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant',, whora, nevertheless, Ipartr
ed with here,. I made an acquaintance-Wriih; several of these
gentlemen $ and from these, in the long winter nights* jn
which I staid here, 1 receiwd several very agreeable yisitsv-
It was talking one night with prince*»:>r —>tooe of the bar
nishe&minifcters of state belonging to tl>e Czar of. Muscovy, that
the discourse of my particular case began. t He had been tell*-
208 t*pyS*JTI7RBS OP:
ing me abundance <>f ifoe-things of the greatnessj the mag?
nificence, the dominions) aud the absolute power, of the env
perorofthe Russianst I interrupted him, and 4otd him,I **?
a greater and more "powerful prince than even the Cssar of-Mw
qpvy was, wough my dominions were not so lqrge, or my people
so many; The 'Russian, grandee Rooked a little surprised* «n4
fixing his eyes steadily upon me* began to bonder what I«me£nt>
I told him his Wonder would cease when I had explained
myself. First, I told him I had-absolute-disposal of the lives
and fortunes of all my subjects $ that notwithstanding my ab-
solute power, I had not one person disaffected to my govern-
ment, or to my person, in all my dominions* He shook his
head at that* and said, there, indeed, I outdkl the Czar of Mus-
covy. I told him that all the lands in nay kingdom were my
own, and all my subjects were not only my tepants,- but
tenants at will j that they would all fight for me to the last
drop; and that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged myseU
to be, was ever so universally beloved, and yet so horribly
feared by his subjects.
After amusing him with these riddles in government for a
while, I opened the case, and told him the story at large of
ray living in the island 5 and how I managed both myself and
the people that were under me, just as I have since minuted
it down. They were exceedingly taken with the story, and
especially the prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the true
greatness of life was to be masters of ourselves j that he-would:
not have exchanged such a state of life as mine tp be Czar of
Muscovy j and that he found more felicity in the retirement
he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in the
highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his master#e
Czar j that the height of human wisdom was to bring our tern*
pers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within^,
under the weight of the greatest storms without. When be,
came flfst hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his heaA:
apd the elothes from his back, as others had done before feinj?
bt;t a little time and consideration had made him look to*#
himself,- as well as round him, to things without: tbathefbunA
the mind of man, if it was but once brought to refteet^ppn
the state of universal life> and how little this world was con*
cerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of -jnakmg:..#
felicity/of itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to-its.
/ma best ends and tdesiresi with but very Kttle ^ssjsfcmee from1
thewprld; the^ir to breath in, food to sustain life, clothosi
for warmth j and liberty for-exercise, in order to neaUhi*$9flV^
R6BlN»Otf CR03OE. $0$
p*ete<l,in b% oj*flfoVall that thfc w**r4debutd do for'us j atid
though the gte&tnessj; the authority, the riehe* and the plea-
sates which softie enjoyed in the World, had much in riiem that
wtf* agreeable W U3, yet all those things chiefly gratified the
coafsejslof our affections, such as oar ambition, out particular4
ptide, avarice, vanity, and sensuality; all which being the Were
product of the woVst part of man, were in themselves crimes,
and had in them th£ seeds of all manner of crimes j but neither
were related to, or concerned with, any of those virtues that
constituted us wise men, or of those graces that distinguished
ns as Christians; that being now deprived of all the fancied
felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices,
he'said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them,
Where he found all manner of deformity, and was now con-
vinced that virtue only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great*,
and preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in a fu-
ture state j and in this, he said, they were more happy in their
banishment than all their enemies were, who had the full pos-
session of all the wealth and power they had left behind them.
** Nor> Sir," says he, r< do I bring my mind to this politically,
by me necessity of my circumstances, which some call miser*
able; but, if I know any thing of myself, I would not now go
back; thbdgh the Czar my master should call me, and reinstate
m£ in slimy former grandeur: I say, I would no more go
bacft to it than I believe my soul, when it shall be delivered
ffom this prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glori-
ous state beyond life, would come back to the gaol of flesh- and
blood it i* now inclosed in, and leave heaven, to deal in the
dirt and crime of human affairs.*'
He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much
earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evident it was
the true sense of his soul j there was no room to doubt-hi* sin-
cerity. I told him I once thought myself a kind of monarch in
my old station, of which I had given him an account j but that
I thought he was not only a monarch, but a great conqueror?
fot that he that has got a victory over his own exorbitant desires,
and the absolute dominion over himself, whose reast>n entirely
governs his will, is certainly greater than he that conquers a
city. ™ But, my lord," said I, " shall I take the liberty to ask
you a question ?"—Cf With all my heart,'* says he. "U *he
d6or of your liberty was opened," said I, " would you not
take hold of it to deliver you from this exile ?"—" Hold/* said
he; "your question is subtle, and requires some serious, just
distinctions/to give it-a sincere answer; and then I will give
it you from the bottom of my heart* Nothing that I know of
in this world would move me to deliver myself from this state
of banishment, except these two; firsts the, enjoyment of iny
relations; and, secondly, a litth warmer climate; but I pro*
test to you, that to go back to the pomp of the court, the glory*
the power, the hurry of a minister of state; the wealth, the
gaiety, and the pleasures of a .courtier j if my master should
send me word this rpoment that he restores me to all he ba-
nished me from, I protest, if I know myself at all, I would not
leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these frozen lakes,, fat
the palace at Moscow."—" But, my lord/' said I, " perhaps
you not only are banished from the pleasures of the court, and
from the power, authority, and wealth-you enjoyed before, but
you may be absent too from some of the conveniences of life y
your estate, perhaps, confiscated, and your effects plundered f
and the supplies left you here may not be suitable to the or-
dinary demands of life."—" Aye," says he, " that is as you
suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, &c.; so, indeed, I am;
but you are now to consider me only as a man, a human crea-*
ture, not at all distinguished from another; and so I can suffer
no want, unless I should be visited with sickness and. distem-
pers. However, to, put the question out of dispute, you see
our manner 5 we- are, in this place, five persons of rank; -we
live perfectly retired, as suited to a state of banishment j we-
rjave something rescued front the shipwreck pft pur fortunes*'
which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting for\food $
but, the .poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live ii*
as much plenty as we, who go into the woods and catch sables
and foxes; the labour of a month'will maintain them a year*
a,nd, as the way of living is not, expensive, so it is not hard
tp get sufficient to ourselves. So that objection is out or
doors,";
I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable-
conversation J had with this truly great man; in all which he
ejiowed that his mind was so inspired with a superior know
ledge of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast'
share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really-as
much-as be had expressed, and that he was always the same
io the; last, as will appear in the story I am going to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter,
I thought \t-y the cold so intense that I could not so much as
Jpok abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of<#*>
before my face,; or rather a hood, with only a hole for breathy
and two for sight i theiittle delight we had was, as we reck-
oned, for three months, not 4bove'five'hours; a-*lay, and six at
most; only that the-snow lying on the ground continually, and
the weather clear, it waft never quite dark. Our horses were
kept, or rather starved, under-ground; and as for our servants,
whom we hired here to look after ourselves and horses, we
had, everynow and then, their fingers and toes to thaw and
take care of, lest they should mortify and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being
close^ the walla thick, the lights small, and the glass all double.
Qur food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the
season; bread good enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish
of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton and of the buffaloes,
which is pretty good meat. All the stores of provisions for
the winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured: our
drink was water, mixed with aqua-vitae instead of brandy; and
for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have
excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad alt weathers,
frequently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's*
flesh, but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, as above, and
we lived very cheerfully and well, all'things considered.
It was now March, the days grown conwderably longer,
and,the weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers
began to prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and ta *
get things ready to be going r bnt my measures being* fixed,
as I have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the BaU
tic, I made no motion; knowing Very well that the ships from
the south do not set out for that part of the world till May or
June, and that if I was there by the beginnings of August? it
Would be as soon as any ships would be ready' to, *go away; and
therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did; in a
word, I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers, go
away before me. It seems, every year they go from thence
to Muscovy for trade, viz. to carry furs, and buy necessaries,
Which they bring back with them to furnish their shops: also
others went on the same errand to Archangel; but then they
all being to come back again, above eight hundred miles; wetit
all out before me.
Ih the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up;
and, as I was doing this, it occurred to me that, seeing ail
these people were banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia,
and' yet, when they cariie there, were ieft at liberty to go;
Whither they would', why they did not then go away to any.'
ai$ Anvunrrtfaaa o<f
part of the worid, wherever they thought fit; and I began ta
examine what should hinder therti from making such an-attempt.
But 'fpyjwondec was over when I entered upon that subject
with? the person I have; mentioned, who answered me thus*
** Consider*first, Sir/* said he, " the place where we are?
and, secondly> the condition we are in > especially thegener^
ality of the people Who are banished hither. We are surrounded
with stronger things than bars or bolts j on the north side an
unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and boathjiever
swam; every other way, we have above a thousand miles to*
pass through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly
impassable, except by the roads made by the government, and
through the towns garrisoned by his troops 5 so that we could
neither pass undiscovered by the road, or subsist any other way',
so that it is in vain to attempt it/'
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they -were
in a prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up
in the castle at Moscow: however, it came into my thoughts
that I might certainly be made an instrument to procure the
escape of this excellent person j and that, whatever hazard I
run, I would certainly try if I could carry him off. Upon this
1 took an occasion, one evening, to tell him my thoughts. I
represented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guardrover him in the country ) and as
I was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went-
in the retinue of a Caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie
in the stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every
night where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to
Archangel, where I would immediately secure him on board
an English ship, and carry him safe along with me; and as to
his subsistence, and other particulars, it should be my care,
till he could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me
all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face that
what I said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment j his colour
frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart flutteredv
that it might be even perceived in his countenance 5 nor could
he immediately answer me when I had done,-and as it were
hesitated what he would say to it: but after he had paused a;
little, he embraced rne, and said, " How unhappy are we>f
unguarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts df
friendship are made snares unto us, and we are made tempters
of one another f^fcfy dear friend," said he,« your offer is-sV
sincere, has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itselfi
and is so calculated for my advantage, ihat I must have very
little knowledge of The world if I did not both wonder at it,
,and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me? to you for it.
Bat did you believe I was sincere in what I have often said to
you of my contempt of the world? Did you. believe I spoke
my very soul to you, and that I had really obtained that de-
gree of felicity here that had placed me; above all that the
world could give me? Did you believe. I waa sincere when I
told you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to be all
that I once was in the court, with the favour of the Czar my
master? Did you believe me, my friend, to Jbe an honest man;
or did you believe me to be a boasting hypocrite?" Here he
stopped, as if he would hear what I would say} but, indeed,
I soon after perceived that he. stopped because his spirits were
in motion, his great heart was full of struggles, and he could
not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the tiling as well
as at the man, and I used some arguments with him to urge
htm to set himself free 5 that he ought to look upon this as a
door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by
Providence, who has the care and disposition of all events, to
do himself good, and to render himself useful in the workl. ,
He, had by this time recovered himself; " How do you
know, Sir," says he, warmly, " but that instead of a summons,
from .Heaven, it may be a feint of another instrument; re-
presenting in alluring colours to me the show of felicity as a
deliverance, which may in itself be my more/and tend directly
to tmy ruin? Here I am free from the temptation of returning
to my former miserable greatness •, there I am not sure but
that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice and luxury, which
I know remain in nature, may revive and take root, and> in
a wordj, again overwhelm me; and then the happy prisoner,
whom you see now master of his soul's libe/ty, shall be the
miserable slave of his own senses, in the full of all personal
liberty.. Dear Sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement*
banished .from the crimes of life, rather than purchase., a show
o^/rgodom at the expence of the liberty of my reason, and at
tjie future happiness which I now have in my view, but shall
then, I fear, quickly lose sight of; for I am,but flesh*, a man,
a mere man y have passions and affections as likely to possess
an^^overthrow;,me as any man: Q be not my friend and
tempter, both together.*^ . . ,
,-,^Iwa^ surprised before, I was quite *}umb now, and: stood
^ie^^^^ingathim^and^indeedj admiring wjhat. I mw, ,£he
^^e^nhis^ul ^as so great, that though the w^Jher was.
extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, antH
found he wanted to give vent to his mind 5 so I said a word
or two> that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait "tin
him again, and then I withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after, I heard somebody at, or near the
door of my room, and I was'going to open the door, but he
had opened it, and came in. "My dear friend," says he,
"you had almost overset me, but I am recovered. Do not
take it ill that I do not close with your offer 7 I assure you it is
not for want of sense of the kindness of it in you; and I came
to make the most sincere acknowledgment bf it to you; but I
hope I have got the victory over myself."—" My lord," "saicT'I,
"I hope you are fully satisfied that you do not resist the call
of Heaven."—" Sir," said he, tc if it had been from Heaven,
the same power would have influenced me to have accepted it:
but I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven flint
I declined it; and I have infinite satisfaction hi the parting,
that you shall leave me an honest man still, though not a free
man."
I had nothing to do bat to acquiesce, and make professions
to him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to'serve
him. He embraced trVe'very passionately, and assured m£ he
was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge it; and
with that he offered me a very fine present of sables, too much,
indeed, forme to accept frottia man in his circumstances, and
I would have avoided them, but he would not be refiised.' *
The next morning I sent my servant to his lordsliip wifh a
small present of tea, and two pieces cf China damask, and fotff
little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above si*
ounces, or thereabout, but Were far short of the Valueof hfs
sables, which, when I Came to England, I found "worth near
2001. He accepted the tea, and one piece of the dnmask, 2ncl
one of the pieces of gold, whibh had a fine stamp upon it, of
the Japan coinage, Whifch I found lie took for the rarity of it;
but Would not take any more; and lie sent Word by my servant
that he desired to speak With me. """''"'j
When I came to htm, he told me I knew what had passc3
between us, and hopea1 I Would not move him any 'more"If
that affair; but that, since I had made sVich a generousf offer
to him, be asked me ifl had kindness enough'to offer the sanie
to another person that he would name to me, in whom he had
a great share of concern. I told him that I could not say Tin*
clined to do so much for any but himself, for Whom 1 ha3^
particular value, and should have been glad to have beeft the
instrument of his deliverance 5 however, if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him my answer. He told
me it was his- only son j who, though I had not seen him, yet
he was in the same condition with himself, and above two
hundred milea from him, on the other side the Oby j but that,
if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would dp it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly
on his account; and that seeing I could not prevail on him, I
would .show my respect to him by my concern for his son;
but these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away
the next day for his son 3 and in about twenty days he came
back with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded
with very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a
very great value. His servants brought the horses into the
town, but left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented
him to me; and, in short, we concerted the manner of out
travelling, and every tiling proper for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fo*
skins, fine ermines, and such other furs as are very rich, in
that city, in exchange for some of the goods I had brought
from China; in particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of
which I sold the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at
Archangel, for a much better price than I could have got at
London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit, and
whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we
made here.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
a city, t believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it
is so far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it
should be much talked of. We were now reduced to a very
small caravan, having only thirty-two horses and camels in all,
and a|l of them passed for mine, though my new guest was
proprietor of eleven of them; it was most natural also .that I
should take more servants with me than I had before^ and
the young lord passed for my steward; what great man I passed
for myself, I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire.
\Ve had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over
that we met with Ip our whole journey y I call it tie worst,
i)ecause the way was very deep in some places* and very
uneven "}n, ptliersj the best we had ,to say for it was, that
>ve thought we had no troops of 'tartars or robbers to fear,
and that they never came pn this side the river Gby, or at
least but very seldom 5 but we found it otherwise.
My joung lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was
perfectly acquainted with the country, and led us by private
roads, so that we avoided coming into the principal towns and
cities upon the great road, such as Tumen, Soloy Kamskoi,
and several others 5 because die Muscovite garrisons which are
kept there are very curious and strict in their observation up-
on travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of
note should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but
by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole
journey was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp and lie
in our tents, when we migkt have had very good accommoda-
tion in the cities on the way: this the young lord was so sen-
sible of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad when we
came to several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself,
with his servant, in the woods, and met us always at the ap-
pointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary between Europe
and Asia, and the first.city on the European side was called
Soloy Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the great city on
the river Kama j and here we thought to see some evident al-
teration in the people; but we were mistaken; for as we had
a vast desert to pass, which is near seven hundred miles long
jn some places,- but not above two hundred noils* over where
we passed it, so till we came past that horrible place, we
found very little difference between that country and the
Mogul Tartary: the people are mostly pagans, and little better
than the savages of America j their houses and towns full of
idols, and their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the
cities, as above, and the villages near them, where they are
Christians, as they call themselves, of the Greek church; but
have their religion mingled with so many relics of superstition,
that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere sorcery
and witchcraft.
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must.(after all
our dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before,) have
been plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop
of thieves; of what country they were I am yet at a loss to
know, but they were all on horseback, carried bows and ar*
rows, and were at first about forty-five in number j they earns
so near to us as to be within two musket-shots, and asking no.
questions, surrounded us with their horses, and looked very
earnestly uprin;w*wiceVat*l^^
: in our^way yripow which w£ tffew <up 1 n « li1tH li\\e; before
bur caniete, being notv^b6te Yixte^n\irieini'lif!airj- and befng
draWr^up thus; we felted, £nd sent out the' Siberian servant,
wlio^attendedhis lord,Tto see who they were i his master was
the* more Willing: to lee him go, because he-was not a little ap-
prehensive that'the'y were a Siberian trbop sent "out after hirh.
The man came tip near them with h flag of truce, and called
td them; but though he spoke several of their languages, or
diale*ctsrt)f-4anguagefJ father, he co'uld ndt understand a word
bhey.*said'$ however, after some Signs to him not to come nearer
to them/at liis peril, the fellow came back no wiser than he
Went j only that by their dress; - he s*afd, "he Relieved them to
be strife Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and
that there must be more of them upon the great desert, though
&e hever^ heard that any of them were seen so far north before.
About an hour after they again made a motion to attack u«,
and rode round'our little wood to see where they might break.
in i but finding us always ready to face them, they went off
agfaln f and we fe'solved not to stir for that night.
• ^his was small'Comfort to us; however, we had no re-
medy*; there? Was, on oar left hand, at about a quarter of a
mile distance, a Httle; grove, and very near' the road; I im-
mediately resolved1 wd should advance to those trees, and for-
trfyouneives as Well as we could there; for, first, I considered
that the; trees would in a great measure caver us from their
arrows j fand, \p the'next place, they could not come to charge
us/trf a^bc-crf; it Was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who
proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him, that
he whs always readiest and most apt to direct 3nd encourage
iw jivcaseS of the' most danger. WW advanced immediately,
with what Speed we Could, and'gained that little wood $ the
T'artilrsycr thieves* for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing'their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When we
came^ thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, that it was
a.-swimpy piece of ground, and on the one side a Very great
spring of water, which running out in a lfttle brook, was, a
little farther, joined by another of the like size; and was,
in $hc>rf; the source of a considerable fiver,'called afterwards
the Wu-ttlbt the trees which grew about'UiiS spring were
ftot above* twohuridred, but y£ry large, and stood pretty thick,
so; that'as^oon'asVe got in'we saw odrselVes i^Vf^ctJy iafe
from th&^neby, unfesYthey1 attacked'us on' ffiot;1
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
VOL. II. 'L
2X& ApJ$NTv^PtS 9*
hours, without perceiving tfcey ma<Je any jr^pvsmerjt, wr Epr-
tuguese, with some help;, c^t je,ver$d arms pf t^^s ha}£ 6fFf And
laid ttenY nanging across #pm one tre^ to anpthejy mkfajj
manner fenced us in. About two hours before night theytcame
down""diifectljf upon ,us;, a^d though we hacf pptperjcffiyedi^'
we fbur)d they had beenjpjnsd by some more pf the same, so
that they were near fourscore horse; whereof hpwever, we
fancied some were women, They came on till they were
within half shot of our little wood, when we $red pnejjiuisket
without bat), ^nd called to them in the Russian tongue to
know what they wanted, and bade them keep off: but they
came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagin-
ing we were so barricaded that they could not easily break ip.
Our old pilot was our captain, as well as our engineer* and
desired us not to five upon them till they camp Within pistol-
shot, that we might be sure to full,; and that when we did tire
we should be sure to take good aim j we bade him give the
word of command, which he delayed so long, that they were
seme of them within two pikes length of us w^en we Jet fly..
We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them,* and wound-
ed several others, as also several of their horses; fpr We had
all of us loaded our pieces with two pr three bullets. £t least, ',
They were terribly surprised with our ifc?j aqd retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from tty.in. which time
we loaded our pieces again^aud seeing.them keep that distance)
we sallied out, and catched four or five of fyetf horVe*rrwhb>e
riders we supposed were killed: and coming w> to the dead,
we judged they were Tartars, but knew not hpw they came
to make an excursion such an unusual length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of
the night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the
entrances into the woodV and keeping a strict watch. We
waited for day-light, and when it came, it gave us a very un>-
welcome discovery, indeed j for the enemy, who we thought
were discouraged with the reception they met with, were now
greatly increased, and Jiad set up eleven or twelve huts or tents^
as if they were resolved to besiege us; and this Jitrie camp,
they had pitched upon the open plain, about three quarters of
a mile jfrpm us. We were, indeed, surprised at this discpfery ><
and now, I confess, I gave rpyself over for )pst, auc| all ftfit?'
had j the lps> of rny effects d*d not Tie so near xney though very
considerable, as the thoughts of filing intp the harids of iwrtf*
barbarians, at the latter end of jenyjpurney, ajtersomany &$*-
culttiesjind,hazards as I bad gone^through, and even \tt stghr
cfoxir port, where we expected' safety and deliverance. M
jto toy partner, he was Tagmjr/, and declared that to lose his
goods wotild be his ruinr, and that be would rather die than be
starved $ and he was for fighting to the last drop*.4
The young lord, a gallant youth, was for fighting, to the
last also $ and my oki pilot was 'of the opinion we were able
to resist thdm ail in the situation we were then in; and thus
we spent the day in debates of what we should do: but to-
wards evening we found that the number of our enemies still
increased, and we did not know1)ut by the morning they might
still be a greater number^ so I began to inquire of those peo*
pie we had brought from Tobolsk! if there were no private
ways, by which we might avoid them in the night, and perhaps
retreat to some town, or get help to guard us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told us,
if we cjesigned to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage
to carry as off in the night, to a way that went north, towards
the river Petrou, by which he made no question but we might
get away, and the Tartars never the wiser: but, he said, his
lord had tby him he would not retreat, but would rather choose
to fight. I told him'he mistook his lord; for that he was too
wise a man to love fighting for the sake of \t 3 that I knew his
lord was brave en6ugh, by what he bad showed already; but
Jhat bis ford knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen
men to fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity
forced them to it j and thai, if he,thought it|>ossible fofus to
escape in the jrigpt, we had nothing else tp do but to attempt it.
He answered, it his Jord^hip gave him such prders he would
lose his life if he did not perform it: we soon brought his lord
to give that order, though privately, ap4 we immediately pre-
pared for the putting it in practice.
And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fircj
in our little camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as
to make it burn #11 night, that the Tartars might conclude we,
were still there, but as soon as it was dark, and we could see
the stars (for our guide would not stir before,) having all pur
horses .and camels ready .loaded, we followed qqr new guide,
who I soon fopnd steered tiiroself by the north star-
After we hafl travelled two hours very hard, it began to be
ljghter still; not that it was qujte darjc all night, but the moon
began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than w^
wished! it to ue; but by six o'clock the next morning we
were got above thirty miles,, Jiavjnjg .almost spoiled our horses.
Here we found a Russian village, named Kejeaaazinskoy, where
we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that
day. About two hours before night we set out again/and
travelled till eight the next morning* though not quite so bard
as before 2 and about seven o!clock we passed a little river*
called Kirtza, and catme to a good burge town inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomoys; there wfe; heard that several troops
of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we
were now completely out of danger of them, which was to
our great satisfaction^ tHere ;we were obliged to get some
fresh horses; and having need enough of rest, we stayed rive
days 3 and my partner and I agreed to give* the honest Sibe-
rian who brought us ihjther the value, of ten pistoles.
In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river
Wirtzogda, and running into; the? Bwina: we were there,
very happily,- near the end of our travels by land, that river
being navigable, in seven days passage, to Archangel. From
hence we came to Lay/renskoy the 3d of July; and provid-
ing ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a barge for our
own convenience, we enabarked- the 7th# and arrived all safe
at Archangel the 18th $ haying been a year five months and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at Tobolski. We stayed at tins, place six weeks, for the arrival
of the ships j and must have taxied .longer, had not a Ham-
burgher come in abpye a month sooner than usual.
, We then set sail from Archangel the 20t)i of August, the
same year j and after,no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe
in tWs.Elb« the ifcfhV QCSzytepxhes^ tife^e. my partner and I
found a very good .sale for our goods) as well those of China,
as the sables, &rc. of Siberia;,3nd dividing^the produce, my
shnre amounted to 347.5?/ \?s..0d. including about six hundred
pounds worth of diamonds 'which I,had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the
Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and could correspond with those of. his
father's friends who were left alive.. He did not part without
testimonies of gratitude for the service I had done him, and
the sense of my kindness to the prince his father.
To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh,
I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked
in the packet, and arrived in JLondon the 1 Oth of January 1705;
having been absent from England ten years and nine months.,
And here I resolved to prepare for a longer journey than all
the*e, baring lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years..
THE END.
Stereotyped and.printed by A. Witaoo,
Crnnden Town, St. Vmtfcnt.
*/^^^«v
£%$&'.*
