THE
IFE

USOE,
OF TORK, MARINER,
WHO LIVED TWENTY-EIGHT#YEARS1N AN UNINHABITED ISLAND
ON THE CQJWT Or AMERICA, NEAR TUE MOUTH Or
'tuæ/great RIVER OROq

BY DANIEL DE FOE,
JUTBOR OF RELIGIOUS eOVRTSHIP AND FARIOVS OTHER JTORKS.
EDINBURGH:
FRJNTED BY AND FOX MCNDELI. AND «ON;
1803.
PREFACE.
IF ever the story of any private man's adven-
tures in the world were worth making pub-
lic, and were acceptable when published, the
Editor of this account thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all
that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the
life olonemanbeingfcarce capable ofagreaU
er variety.
The story is told with modesty, with se-
riousness, and with a religious application of
events to the uses to which wife men always
apply them, viz. to the instruction of others
by this example, and tojustify and honour the
wisdom of Providence in all the variety of our
circumstances, let them happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just
history of fact; neither is there any appear-
ance of fiction in it: And though he is well
aware there are many, who on account of the
very singular preservations the author met
with, will give it the name of a romance;
yet, in whichever of these lights it shall be
viewed he imagines, that the improvement
. of it, as well to the diversion as to the in-
struction of the reader, will be the fame; and,
as such, he thinks, without farther compli-
ment to the world, he does them a great ser-
vice in the publication.
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
o b
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IN the year 1632 I was born at York, of a reput-
able family. My father was a native of Bre-
men, who, merchandising at Hull for some time,
gained a very plentiful fortune, and married my mo-
ther in York, who received her first breath in that
country; and as her maiden name was Robinson, I
was called Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being
easily pronounced in the English tongue, we are
commonly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers; the eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but
slain by the Spaniards; what became of the other I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion, my father designing me for the law yet no-
2
K0BINS0N CRU-OE.
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both
.against the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of my friends. One morning my
father expostulated very warmly with me: Says he,
What reason have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect os con-
tent and happiness, than to' enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, neither to desire adversity
nor riches; that a middle state of life was the most
happy; and that the high towering thoughts of rais-
ing our condition by wandering abroad, were sur-
rounded with misery and danger, and often ended
with confusion and disappointment: I entreat you,
nay*I command you, says he, to desist from these in-
tentions; consider your eldest brother who laid down
his life for his honour, or rather lost it for his dis-
obedience to my will. If you will go, added he, my
prayers however shall be offered for your preserva-
tion ; but a time may come, when, desolate, oppressed,
©r forsaken, you may wiih you had taken your poor dc-
spised father's counsel.—He pronounced these words
with such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that seem-
ed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this wore off soon, and a little after I informed
my mother that I could not settle to any business,
my resolutions were so strong to fee the world, and
begged she would gain my father's consent only to
go one voyage, which if it did not prove prosperous
I would never attempt a second; but my desire
was as vain as my folly in asking: My mother pas-
sionately expressed her dislike of this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw I was bent upon my oiun de-
slruBion, contrary to their''will and my duty, she would
Jay no more, but leave me to myself, to do whatsoever I
pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
3
one time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of
mine, going along with his father, who was master
of a ship, to London; and acquainting him with my
wandering desires, he assured me of my free passage,
and a plentiful share of what was necessary. Thus,
without imploring a blessing, or taking a farewell of
my parents, I took shipping on the first of September
1651; when our ship having no sooner left the
Humber a-stern, but there arose such a violent storm,
and being extremely sea-sick, I thought the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my dis-
obedience to my dear parents. It was then only
1 called to mind the good advice of my father,
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of life;
and if it pleased God to set me on dry land once
more, I would return to tny parents, implore their
forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wandering
inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm conti-
nued; but these good resolutions decreased with the
danger; more especially when my companion came
to me, clapping me on the shoulder: What, Bob!
said he, sure you was not frightened last night with
scarce a cap-full of wind? And do you, cried I,
.iall such a violent ftsrm a cap-full of wind? A
slorin, you fool you, said he, this is nothing; a good
ship and sea-room always baffle such a foolish squall
of wind as that; but you.'re a fresh-water sailor:
1 Come, boy, turn out, see what sue weather we have
.fiow, and a good bowl of punch will drown all your
past f rrows. In short, the punch was made, I was
drunk, aud in one night's time drowned both my
repentance and my good resolutions, entirely for-
getting the vows and promises I made in my distress;
and whenever any reflections would return on me,
what by company and drinking, I soon mastered
those sits, as I deridingly called them; but this only
made way for another trial, whereby I could not
but see how much I was beholden to kind pro-,
vidence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with some
Newcastle ships, and there being good anchorage,
and our cables sound, the seamen forgot their late
toil and danger, and spent their time as merry as if
they had been on shore ; but on t!ie eighth day there
arose such a brisk gale of wind, which prevented
our tiding it up the river, and liill increasing, our
ship rid forecastle in, having shipped several large
seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, when I heard the master express this me-
lancholy ejaculation, Lord have mercy upon us, ice
flail be all lost and undone! For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin till the universal and most
dreadful apprehensions among us of our speedy fate
made me get up upon deck,and there I was dreadfully
asfrighted indeed; the sea went mountains high; I
could fee nothing but distress around us; two siiips
had cut their masts on board, and another was foun-
dered; two more that had lost their anchors were
forced out to the mercy of the ocean; and to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast and
mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as riot to judge of my
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh-water sailor,
and therefore it seemed more terrible. Our ship was
very good, but too much loaden, which made the
sailors often cry out, She would founder; words I
then was ignorant of! /.II this while the storm con-
tinuing, the master and the more sober pnrt of his
men went to prayers, expecting death every mo-
ment. In the middle of the night one cried out, We
had sprung a leak; another, That there was four Jeet
water in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
5
seas, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me also in- that extremi-
ty to share with them in their labour. While thus
employed, the master espying some light colliers,
fired a gun as a signal of distress, which I not un-
derstanding what it meant, and thinking that either
the ship broke or some dreadful thing happened, sell
into a swoon ; but in that common condition of woe,
nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was a great
while before I recovered.
Happy it was foT us, when upon the signal given,
ihey ventured out their boats to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had their
attempts been, had they not come to our ship's side,
when our men cast them a rope over a-stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold
of, and we hawling them to us, got into their boat.
So leaving our ship, we perceived it sink in less than,
a quarter of an hour, by which I knew what wa»
foundering at sea- And now the men incessantly la-
boured to recover their own ship, but the sea ran so
high, and the wind blowing hard, they thought it
convenient to hawl within shore, which with great
dissiculty and danger at last we happily effected,
landing at a place called Gromer, not far from
Winterton light-house; from whence we all walked
to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people furnished us with necessaries for our subsist-
ence either to Hull or London.
It is strange, that after all this, like the prodigal
son, I did not return to my father; who hearing of
the ship's calamity, for a long time thought me en-
tombed in the deep. No doubt but I should have
Jhared in his fatted calf, as the scripture expresseth it;
but my ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful conviction os reason and conscience.
A3
6
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
When I had been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His behaviour
and speech was altered, and in a melancholy manner
asked me how I did, telling his father who I was,
and how I had made this voyage for a trial only to
proceed farther abroad ; upon which the old gentle-
man, turning to me gravely, said, Toung man, you
ought never to go to sea any mere, but to take this fir a
certain sign that you will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the fame
resolution? 'Tis a different cafe, said he, 'tis my
calling, and consequently my duty,, but as you have
made this voyage for a trial, you fee what ill success
heaven as set before your eyes; and perhaps our miseries
have been on your account, like Jonah in theship of far-
fiish : But pray what are you, and on what account did
you go to sea? Upon which I very freely declared
my whole story, at the end of which he made this
exclamation, Ye sacred powers! what had I com-
mitted, that such a wretch should enter into my
ship, to heap upon me such a deluge of miseries!
But soon recollecting his passions, Toung man, faid
he, depend upon it, if you do net go back, wherever you
go, you will meet with difaslers and disappointments, till
your father's words are fulfilled upon you. And so we
parted.
I thought at first to return home, but shame op-
posed that good motion, as thinking I should be
laughed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So
strange is the nature of youth, who are not ashamed
to sin, but yet ashamed to repentand far from be-
ing ashamed of those actions for which they may be
accounted fools, think it folly in returning to their
duty, v hich is the principal mark of wisdom. In
short, I travelled up to London, resolved upon a voy-
age; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaint-
ance with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go
7
to the coast of Guinea. Having some money, and
appearing like a gentleman, I went on board, not
as a common sailor or foremast-man; nay, the com-
mander agreed I should go that voyage with him
without any expence, that I should be his messmate
and companion, and I was very welcome to carry
any thing witrl me, and make the best merchandise
I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my captain for his offer; when acquainting my
friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent me, the
greatest part of which I believe my dear father and
mother contributed to, and with which I bought
toys and trisles as the captain directed me. My
captain also learned me navigation, how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation,
and led me into the knowledge of several useful
branches of the mathematics; and indeed this voy-
age made me both a sailor and merchant; for I
brought home 5 pounds 9 ounces of gold-dust for
my adventure, which produced at my return to Lon-
don almost three hundred pounds. But in this voy-
age I was extremely sick, being thrown into a vio-
lent calenture, through excessive heat, trading upon
the coast from the latitude of 15 degrees north even
to the line itself.
But alas! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief
to me, yet I resolved to go another voyage wish his
mate, who had now got command of the ship;
but this proved unsuccessful; for though I did not
carry quire iool. of my late acquired wealth, so that
I had 200I. left, which I deposited with the captain's
widow, who was an honest gentlewoman, yet my
misfortunes in this voyage were very great upon me,
for our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands, we
were chaced by a Sallee rover, and in spite of all the
sail we could make, by crowding as much can-
A4
8
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
vas as our yards would spread, or masts carry, the
pirate gained upon us, and so we prepared ourselves
to fight. They had 18 guns, and we had but 12,
About three in the afternoon there was a desperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wound-
ed on both sides; but finding ourselves overpowered
with numbers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too
impotent to have the least hopes of success, we were
forced to surrender, and accordingly were all carried
into the port os Sallee. Our men were sent to the
emperor's court to be fold there; but the pirate
captain taking notice of me, kept me to be his own
slave.
In this condition I thought myself the most miser-
able creature on earth, and the prophecy of my fa-
ther came afiesh into my thoughts. As it happened,
my condition was better than I thought it to be, as
will soon appear. Some hopes indeed 1 had, that
my new patron would go to sea again, where he might
be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war, and,
then I should be set at liberty; but in this I was mis-
taken, for he never took me with him, but left me
to look after his little garden, and to the drudgery
of his house; and when he returned from sea, would
make me iie in the cabin, and look after the ship.
I had nor one that I could communicate my thoughts
to, which were continually meditating my escape;
no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman here,but my-
self, and for two years I could fee nothing practi-
cable, but only please myself with the imagination.
After some length os time, my patron, as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out his
ship as usual; and then he used constantly, once
or twice a week, if the weather was fair, to go out
a fishing, taking me and a yo-.ing Moresco boy to row
the boat; aijd so much piealcd was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the sish, that he wjuld
9
often send me with a Moor, who was one of hi*
kinsmen, and the Moresco youth, to catch a dish o*
sish for him.
One morning as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the- shore,
and rowing we knew not which way, we laboured
all the night, and in the morning found ourselves in
the ocean, two leagues from land; however, we at-
tained there at length, and we made the greater
haste, because our stomachs were exceeding sharp
andhungry. But the better to prevent such-difasters,
my patron ordered a carpenter to build, a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with,
a place behind it to steer and hawl home the main-
sheet, with other conveniencies, to keep him from
the weather, as also lockers to put in all manner of
• provisions, with a handsome shoulder of mutton sail
gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us a-fishing; and one
time inviting two or three persons of distinction to
go with hinifc made provision extraordinary, provid-
ing also three fusees, with powder and shot, that
they might have some sport at fowling along the sea
coast. The next morning, the boat being clean,
her antients and pendents out, and every thing
ready, their minds altering, my patron ordered us
to go a-fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor to get
some provisions on board, as not daring to meddle
with our patron's; who, taking my advice, we
stored ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of
water; besides, I privately conveyed into the boat
a bottle of brandy, some twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a saw; in particular some bees-
wax, which was a great comfort to me, and served
to make candles, I then persuaded Muley (for so
as
10
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
was the Moor called) to procure some powder and
shot, pretending to kill sea curlieus, to which he
innocently and readily agreed; and in short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out,
resolving for my own part to make my escape, though
it might cost me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to fishing -t
but though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put farther out to sea; accord-
ingly we ran a league farther, when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muley by surprise, and threw him overboard.
He was an excellent swimmer, soon arose, and made
towards the boat; upon which I took out a fusee,
and presented it at him: Muley, said I, I never yet
designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
to shore and save your life; but is you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment
you proceed, I will shoot you through the head. The
harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got fafe to land.
Then turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he
trembled at the action; but I put him out of all fear,
telling him, that is he would be true and faithful
to-me, I would do well by him; and therefore, said
I, you miifl stroke your face to be faithful, and, as the
Turks have learnt you, swear by Mahomet, and the
beard of your father, or else I will throw you into the sea
also. So innocent did the child then look, and with
such an obliging smile consented, that I readily be-
lieved him, and from that day forward began to
k>ve him entirely*
Thus we pursued our voyage, and that they should
think me gone to the Straits mouth, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but in the
dulk of the evening I changed my course, and
steered directly S. by E. that I might keep new
J I
the shore; and having a fresh gale of wind, with a
pleasant smooth sea, by three o'clock the next day
I was 150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. Yet still having the dreadful apprehen-
sions of being retaken, I continued sailing for five
days successiviely, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude, that is any
vessel was in chace of me, they would proceed no
farther; and after so much fatigue and thought, I
anchored in the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what or where, neither did I then see any people.
What I principally wanted was fresh water, and I
was resolved about dulkish to swim ashore; but
no sooner did the gloomy clouds of night begin to
succeed the declining day, when then it was we heard
such barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, that one might have thought the very stran-
gest monsters of nature, or infernal spirits, had their
residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night. Sup-
posing I don't, Xury, said I, and in the morning we
shouldsee men who are worse than those we fear, what
then? O den we may give dem de shoot gun, replied
Xury, laughing, and de gun make dem all run away.
The wit and broken English which the boy had
learned from the captives of our nation, pleased me
entirely, and to add to his cheerfulness, I gave him a
dram of the bottle. We could get but little sleep all
the night for the terrible howlings they made, and
indeed we were both affrighted very much, when,
by the rolling of the water, and other tokens, we
justly concluded one of those monsters made towards
our boat; I could not fee it till it came within two
oars length, when, taking my fusee, I let fly at
him: Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but
h e made towards the shore, and the noise of my gun
increased the stupendous noise of the monsters-
Ad
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my life among beads
or savages, should either attack me. Xury said he
would take one of the jars and bring me some; I
asked him why he would gr>, and not I; the poor
boy answered, If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
away. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
trary to self-preservation, the most powerful law of
nature! This indeed increased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we nvill both go
oshore, both eat wild mans, and they shall eat neither
of us. So giving Xury a piece of rulk bread to eat,
and a dram, we waded ashore, carrying nothing with
us but our arms, and two jars for water. I did not
go out of sight of the boat, as dreading the savages
coming down the river in their canoes; but the boy
seeing a low descent, or vale, about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it, and then running back
to me with great precipitation, I thought he was
pursued by some savage or wild beast, upon which I
approached, resolving to perish or protect him from
danger. As he came nearer to me, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and
longer legs; however, we were glad of it, for it
proved wholesome nourishing meat; but what added
to our joy was, my boy assured me there was.plenty
of water, and that he fee no wild mans. And greater
.;<feftill was our comfort, when we found fresh water in'
t'ie creek where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place 1 began to consider that the Cana-
ry and the Cape de Verd islands lay not far off; but
having no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or
when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes
were, I should meet some of the English trading ves-
sels, who would relieve and take us up.
The place I was in, was, no doubt, that wild fort
of country, inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
negroes; it was filled with wild beasts, and the Moors
used it for hunting chiefly. From this place I thought
I saw the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in the Ca-
naries, which made me try twice to attain it; but as
often was I drove back, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along the shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high, and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go farther in; but
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were
sharper than mine, in a soft tone desired me to keep-
far from land, lest we should be devoured ; for, look
yonder, Meyter, said he, and see de dreadful monster
fast asieep on the side of the hill. Accordingly, looking
where he pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed;
it was a terrible great lion that lay on shore, covered,
as it were, by tKe shade of a piece of the hill. Xury,
said I, you shall go on shore and kill him; but the boy
looked amazed: Me kill him, fays he, he eat me at
me mouth, meaning one mouthful. Upon which I
bid him lie still, and charging my- biggest gun with
two Hugs, and a good charge of powder, I took the
best aim I could to shoot him through the head, but
his leg lying over his nose, the slug broke his knee-
bone. The lion awaking with the pain, got up, but
soon fell down, giving the most hideous groan I ever
heard ; but taking my second piece,I shot him through
the head, and then he lay struggling for life. Upon
this Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go on
shore. Go then, said I. Upon which, taking a little
gun in one hand, he swam to shore with the other,
and coming close to the lion, put a period to his life,
by shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a chara-
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet to cut off
the head of his enemy, which not having strength to
perform, cut osf a foot; but I bethought mvsclf that
his stein would be of great use, which cost Xury and
I a whole day's work; when spreading it on the top
of our cabin, the hot beams of the fun so effectually
dried it in two days time, that it afterwards served
me for a bed to lie upon.
And now we sailed southwardly, living sparingly
on our provisions, and went no oftoner on shore than
we were obliged, for fresh water. My design was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about
the C ipe de Verd, in hopes to meet some European
ship. If providence did not so favour, my next course
was to seek for the islands, or lose my life among
the negroes. And in a word, I put my whole stress
upon this, either that 1 must meet .with some shij>, or
certainly perish.
But, as we were sailing along, we faw people stand
on the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were black and stark naked. 1 was inclined to
go on shore, but Xury cried, No, no; however, I
approached nearer, and I found they run along the
shore by me a good way; they had ~no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long stick, which
Xury told me was a lance, with which they could
kill at a great distance. I talked to them by signs,
and made them sensible I wanted something to eat:
They beckoned to me to stop my boat, while two of
them run up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back and brought with them two pieces
of dry flesh, and some corn, which we kindly ac-
cepted ; and to prevent any fears of either side, they
brought the food to the shore, laid it down, then
went and stood a great way off, till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them, be-
ing all we could offer, two mighty creatures came-
5*
siom the mountains, one as it were pursuing the
other with great fury, which we were inclined to
believe, because they seldom appear but in the night;
and both these passing swiftly by the negroes, jumped
into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their
fierceness. At last, one of them coming nearer my
boat than I expected or desired, I shot him directly
through the head, upon which he sunk immediately,
yet rising again, Would have willingly made to the
shore; but between the wound and the strangling
of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is not possible for me to express the consterna-
tion the poor negroes were in at the firing my gun,
much less can I mention their surprise, when they
perceived the creature to be slain by it. I made signs
to them to draw near it, and then gave them a rope
to hale it on shore. It was a beautiful leopard,
which mada me desire its skin; and the negroes
seeming to covet the carcase, I very freely gave it to
them. As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of sight.
The negroes having kindly furnished me with water,,
and with what roots and grain their country afforded,
I took my leave, and after eleven days fail, I came
in sight of the Cape de Verd, and those islands call-
ed by its name ;, but the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds, would prevent my
reaching either of them, I grew melancholy and
dejected; when on a sudden, Xury cried out,
Master, Master, a shtp with a sail; and looked so
frightened, as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us; but I soon discovered she was a Por-
tuguese ship, and, as I thought, bound to the coast
of Guinea for negroes.- Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them; but vain had it been,
if through their perspective glasses they had not per-
ceived me, and shortened their sail to let me come up.
Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's antient,
and fired a gun, both as signals of distress, upon
which they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours
time I came up with them. They spoke to me in
Portuguese, Spanish, and French, but neither of these-
did I understand; till at length a Scots sailor called,
and then I told him I was an Englishman, who had
escaped from the Moors of Sallee; upon which they
took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express that inconceivable joy my
heart felt at this my happy deliverance; who, from
being a miserable and forlorn creature, was not only
relieved, but in favour with the master of the ship,
whom in return for my deliverance I offered all I had
to him: God forbid, said he, that I should take any-
thing from you ; every thing shall be delivered to you when
you come to Brasil. If I have saved your life, it is no'
more than 1 should expecl to receive myself from any
ether, when in the same circumstances, 1 should happen
to meet the like deliverance ,- and should I take from you
what you have, and leave you at Brnftl, why this
would only be taking away a life I have given; my cha-
rity teaches me better; those effiefls you have will support
you there, and provide you a passage home again. And
indeed he acted with the strictest justice in what he
did, taking my things in his possession, and giv-
ing me an exact inventory, even to my earthen jars.
He bought my boat of me for the ship's use, giving
me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Bra-
sil, and if any body osfered more, he would make it
up. He also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury.
It was with great reluctance I was prevailed upon to
fell the child's liberty, who had served me so faith-
fully; but the boy himself was willing; and it was
agreed, that after ten years he should be made free,
upon his renouncing Mahometanism and embracing
Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brasils, we ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or Æ-Sai/its Bay,
in about 22 days after. And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain; he would
take nothing for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for
the leopard's skin, and 30 for the lion's ; every thing
he caused to be delivered, and what I would sell he
bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of my
cargo, and with this stock I entered once more, as I
may fay, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and seeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filled with an emulation, at least, to set-
tle among them, resolving to get my money remit-
ted to me, and to purchase me a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon of English
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we im-
proved it very amicably together: Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for
food; but the third year we planted some tobacco,
preparing each a large piece of ground for planting
Canes the ensuing year; but now wanting assistance,
I repented the loss of my dear boy Xury.
Here having none to assist me, my father's words
came again into my mind; and if only a middle sta-
tion of life I sought, why could it not as well be
obtained in England as here? When I pondered of
this with regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance
forsook me; I had none to converse with but my
neighbour; no work to be done but by my own
hands; and this often made me fay, my condition
was like that of a man cast upon a desolate island.
So unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetful
what good things we receive ourselves, and io un-
thankful for our deliverance from thole calamities
that others enUure,
i3
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I was in some measure settled before the captain
who took me up departed from the Brasils. One day
I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in obtaining its remit-
tance, to which the good gentleman readily con-
sented, but would only have me send for half my
money, lest it should miscarry, which if it did, the
remainder might support me; and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
farther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a
servant, with a cargo proportionable to my condi-
tion; he also sent me over tools of all forts, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for, my plantation, and
which proved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in
rising greater than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus, once more, I cast myself into the deepest
gulf of misery that ever abandoned creature fell
into; for having lived four years in Brasil, I not
only learned the language, but contracted acquaint-
ance with the most eminent planters, and even the
merchants of St. Salvadore, to whom, by way of
discourse, giving an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading there
for mere trifles, by which we might furnish our
plantations with negroes, they gave such attention
to what I said, that three of them came one morn-
ing to me, and told me they had a secret proposal to
make. After enjoining me to secresy (it being an
infringement on the powers of the kings of Portugal
and Spain), they told me they had a mind to fit out
a ship to go to Guinea, in order to stock the planta-
tion with negroes, which, as they could not be pub-
licly sold, they would divide among them, and if I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part, I should have an equal share of the ne-
groes, without providing any stock. The thing in-
deed was fair enough, had I been in another condi-
tion; but I, born to be my own destroyer, could not
resist the proposal, but accepted the offer, upon con-
dition of their looking after my plantation; so, mak-
ing a formal will, I bequeathed my esfects to my good
friend the captain, as my universal heir, but obliged
him to dispose of my effects as directed, one half of
my produce to himself, and the other to be shipped
for England.
The ship being fitted out, and all things ready,
we set sail the first of September 1659, being the
fame day eight years I left my father and mother in
Yorkshire. "We sailed northward upon the coast,
in order to gain Africa, till we made Cape Augustine,
from whence going further in the ocean, out of sight
of land, we steered as though we were bound for the
isle of Fernand de Noremba, leaving the islands on
the east; and then it was we met with a cruel tem-
pest, which held us for twelve days successively, so
that the waters carried us wheresoever they pleased.
In this perplexity one of our men died, and one man
and the boy were washed overboard. When the wea-
ther cleared up a little, we found ourselves eleven
degrees north latitude upon the coast of Guinea.
Upon this the captain gave reasons for returning,
.which I opposed, counselling him to stand away for
Barbadoes, which, as 1 supposed, might be attained
in j j diys; so altering our course, we sailed north-
welt and by welt, in order to reach the Leeward
islands; but a second storm succeeding, drove us to
the westward, so that we were justly afraid of falling
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the hands of cruel savages, or the paws of de-
vouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the
morning, cried out, Land! land! when no sooner
looking out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and in
a moment the sea broke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished imme-
diately. We knew nothing where we were, or upon
what land we were driven, whether an island or the
main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not
so much as hope that the ship would hold many mi-
nutes without breaking in pieces, except the wind
by miracle should turn about immediately. While
we stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate laid hold of the boat, and,
with the help of the rest, got her slung over the
ship's fide, and getting all into her, being eleven of
us, committed ourselves taN God's mercy, and the
wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort would
not be a sussicient protection from death; so high
did the sea run, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making sail, we had none, neither if
we had, could we make use of any; so that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rolling astern of us, and took us with such fu-
ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to
call upon the tremendous name of God, much less
to implore, in dying ejaculations, His infinite mercy,
to receive our departing fouls.
Men are generally counted insensible when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, 1 had the most dreadful appre-
hensions imaginable; for the joys of heaven, and
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even in the small space
of time, as it were, between life arsd death. I was
Agoing, I thought, I knew not whither, in a dismalJ
gulf unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to be-
hold my friends, nor the light of this world any
more! Could I even have thought of annihilation, or
a total dissolution of soul as well as body, the gloomy
thoughts of having no further being, no knowledge
of what we hoped for, but an eternal quietus, with-
out life or fense; even that, I say, would have been
enough to strike me with horror and confusion! But
striving to the last extremity, while I thought all my
companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep, it was with great dissiculty I kept my breath
till the wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had taken in;
however, I got on my feet as fast as I could, lest
another wave should pursue, and carry me back
again; but for all the haste I made, I could not
avoid it, for the sea came after me like a high
mountain, or furious enemy, so that my business was
to hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, preserve it by swimming; the next dreadful
wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep,
but at the same time carried me with a mighty force
and swiftness towards the lliore; when raising my-
self, I held out as well as possible, till at length the
water having spent itself, began to return, at which
I struck forward, and feeling ground with my feet, I
took to my heels again. Thus being served twice more,
I was at last dashed against a piece of rock, in such
a manner as left me senseless; but recovering a little
before the return of the waves, which, no doubt,
then would have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the
rock till those succeeding waves abated, and then,
fetching another run, was overtook by a small wave,
which was soon conquered; but before any more
could overtake me, I reached the main land, where
clambering up the clifts of the shore, tired and almost
spent, I sat down on the grass, free from the dangers
of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my foul felt at this happy deliverance; it was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor^ with the haltef
about his neck, and ready to be turned osf. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the Divine
'Powers for saving my life, when the rest of my com-
panions were all drowned. And now I began to cast
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what I had next to do. I could fee no house, nor
people; I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or drink; no
weapon to destroy any creature for my sustenance,
nor defend myself against devouring beasts; in short,
I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a box
half filled with tobacco. The darksome night com-
ing upon me, increased my fears of being devoured
by wild creatures; my mind was plunged in de-
spair, and having no prospect, as I thought, of life
before me, prepared for another kind of death than
what 1 had lately escaped,. I walked about a fur-
long, to see if could find any freih water, which I
did to my great joy, and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy tree, and
seating myself so that I could not fall, a deep sleep
overtook me, and for that night buried my sorrows
in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awak-
ed, when not only I perceived the tempest was
ceased, but the ihip was driven almost as far as the
rock before-mentioned, which the waves had dash-
ed me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat
two miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore^
as the waves had cast her; I thought to have got to
her, but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
2
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistence. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that, if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved:
These thoughts and my solitude, drew tears from
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the ship, I stripped, and leaped into the water, when
swimming round her, I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good for-
tune to espy a small piece of rope hang down by the
fore-chains so low, that with great dissiculty, by the
help of it, I got into the forecastle of the strip. Here
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold; her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost in the wa-
ter; all her quarter, and what was there, were free
and dry. The provisions I found in good order,
with which I crammed my pockets; and, losing no
time, eat when I was doing other things; I also
found some rum, of which I took a hearty dram;
and now I wanted for nothing except a boat, which
indeed was all, to carry away what was needful for
me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We
had several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and
two or three large spars of wood; with these I fell
to work, and flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side, and tied four of them fast to-
gether at botb ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any consi-
derable weight; upon which I went to work again,
cutting a spare topmast into three lengths, adding
them to my raft with a great deal of labour and
pains. I then considered what I should load it with,
it being not able to bear a ponderous burden ; and
this I soon thought of, first laying upon it all the
planks and boards I could get; next I lowered down
three of the feamens chests, after I had filled them
with bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goats flesh, and some European corn, what
little the rats had spared; but for the liquors, I
found several cases of bottles belonging to our skip-
per, in which were some cordial waters, and four
or five gallons of arrack, which I stowed by them-
selves; by this time the tide beginning to flow, I
perceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim away,
which I had left on the shore; as for my linen,
breeches, and stockings, I swam with them on to the
ship; but I soon found clothes enough, yet took
no more than I wanted for the present. My eyes
were chiefly on tools to work with; and after
long search I found out the carpenter's chest,
which I got safe down on my raft; then I looked
for arms and ammunition, and in the great cabin,
found two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, several
powder-horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two
rusty old swords. I also found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third had
taken water: With two or three broken oars, two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, I put to sea, and in
getting to shore, I had three encouragements; I. A
smooth calm sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in
to the shore. 3. The little wind there was blew to-
wards land; but after I had sailed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little distance from the place
where I first landed; and then I perceived a little
opening of the land, and a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept in the middle of
the stream; but great was my concern, when on a
sudden the fore part of my raft run aground ; so that
had I not with great dissiculty, for near half an hour,
1
kept my back straining against the chests, to keep
my esfects in their places, all I had would have gone
into the sea. But after some time, the rising or the
water caused the raft to float again, when coming up
a little river, with land on both sides, I landed in a
little cove, as near the mouth as possible, the better
to discover a sail, if any such providentially passed
by that way.
Not far off, I spied a hill of a stupendous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it, and thither I
.was resolved to go and view the country, that I
might see what part was the best place to fix my ha-
bitation in. Accordingly, arming myself with a
pistol, a fowling- piece, powder and ball, I ascended
the mountain; there I perceived I was in an island
encompassed by the sea, no distant lands to be
seen, but scattering rocks that lay to the west; that
it seemed a barren place, and, as I thought, inhabit-
ed only by wild beasts. I perceived abundance of
fowls, but was ignorant of what kind, or whether
good for nourishment; 1 ssiot one of them at my re-
turn, which occasioned a confused screaming among
the other birds; and I found it, by its colour and
beak, to be a kind of hawk, but its flesh was perfects
carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely; and
searing that some cruel beasts might devour me in
the night while I slept, I made a kind of hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I brought from
shore. That night I slept very comfortably, and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make
a further attempt on the ship, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm should
break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a sifcond raft, far more nice
than the first, upon which I brought away the car-
penter's stores, two or three bags full of nails, a
'06
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
great jack screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and
a grind-stone. I also took away several things that
belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, two barrels of musket-bullets, another
fowling-piece, a small quantity of powder, and a
large bag full of small shot. Besides these, I took
all the mens clothes I could find, a spare fore-top
sail, hammock, and some bedding; and thus com-
pleting my second cargo, I made all the haste to
shore I could, fearing some wild beast might destroy
what I had there already; but I only found a little
'wild cat sitting on one of the chests, who not seem-
ing to fear me, or the gun that I presented to her, I
threw her a piece of biscuit, which she instantly ate,
and departed.
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I went
to-.work, in order to make me' a little tent with the
fail and some poles which I had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be damaged
by the weather I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards, and an
empty chest turned the long way without. I then
, charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed on the
ground, flept as comfortably, till next morning, as
though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet, despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
sore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could, and so long as the ship remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some
twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a bar-
rel of meal, three c; sks of rum, and what indeed
was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hauser whole, with a great deal of iron-
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-sail yards, but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I laid upon it, and not being able
dexterously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and I were overturned; for my part, all the da-
mage I sustained was a wet flcin; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the cables*
and some pieces of iron.
Thjrteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; though, I believe, had the weather been
calm, I should have brought away the whole ship
piece by piece. As I was going the twelfth tjme,
the wind began to rife; however, I ventured at low
water, and rummaging the cabin effectually, in a,
locker I found several razors, sciffars, and some
dozens of knives and forks, and in another thirty-
six pounds in pieces of eight, silver and gold. Ah 7
simple vanity, said I, whom this .world so much doats
on, where is now thy virtue, thy excellence to me? You
Cannot procure me one thing needful, nor remove me from
this desolate sland to a plate of plenty: One of these
knives, so meanly esteemed, is to me more preferable thah
all this heap. Even therefore remain where thou art,
to fink in the deep, as unregarded even as a creature
whose life is not worth preserving. Yet after all this
exclamation, I wrapt it up in a piece of canvas, and
began to think of making another raft; but soon I
perceived the .wind began to rife, a fresh gale blow-
ing from the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds
and darkness. So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let
myself into .the water, with what things I had about
me, and it was with much dissiculty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night 1 slept very contentedly in my little ,
teat, surrounded with all my effects; but when I
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This much surprised me for the present, yet
when I considered I had lost no time, abated no pains,
and had got every thing useful out of her, I com-
forted, myself in the best manner, and entirely sub-
mitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if
any such were in the island. At one time I thought
of digging a cave; at another, I was for erecting
a tent; and, in short, I resolved to do both: The
manner or form of which will not, I hope, be un-
pleasing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was, that
it was moorish, and had no fresh water near it, my
resolutions were to search for a soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men and
beasts of prey, as more easily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my de-
sire; I found a little plain near a rising hill, the
front towards which being as steep as a house-side,
nothing could descend on me from the top. On the
side of this rock was a little hollow place, resem-
bling the entrance or door of a cave. Just before
this place, on the circle of the green, I resolved my
tent should stand. This plain did not much ex-
ceed 100 yards broad, and about twice as long, like
a delightful green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side
of'the hill, so that it was sheltered from the exces-
sive heat of the sun. After this I drew a semi-
circle, containing ten yards in its semi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two .
rows of strong stakes, not six inches from Cich
other; then, with the pieces of cable which I had
cut on board, I regularly laid them in the circle be-
tween the piles up to their tops, which were more
than five feet out of the earth, and after drove ano-
ther row of piles looking within-side against them,
between two or three feet high, which made me
conclude it a little impregnable castle from men and
beasts; and, for my setter security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. Af-
ter which, working on the rock, what with the dirt
and stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground
two feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-
house, and this cost me many days labour and pains;
but one day in particular, a shower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning ensued, which put me in ter-
ror lest my powder ihould take fire, and not only
hinder my necessary subsistence from killing me food,
but even blow up me and my habitation; to pre-
vent which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in ol-
der to separate it, having by me near 15clbs. weight.
And thus being established as king of the island,
every day I went out with my gun to fee what I
could kill that was fit to eat. I soon perceived num-
bers of goats, but very shy; yet having watched
them narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot off the
rocks than when in the low grounds, I one day hap-
pened to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid, who
not thinking its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned,
and when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted. the
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it
alive; but finding it could not be brought to eat, I
was forced to slay it also for my own subsistence.
Thus entered into a strange scene of life as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy apprehen-
B3 *
30'' R«BINS0N CltUSOES
lions concerning my deplorable condition, and many
jirnes the tears would plentifully run down my face,
when I considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human-kind ; and while some de-
sponding cogitations would seem to make me accuse
Providence, other good thoughts would interpose,
*nd reprove after this manner: Well, supposing you
are desolate, is it not better to be so than total-
ly perish ? Why were you singled out to be saved,
snd the rest destroyed r Why should you complain,
when not only your life is preserved, but the ship
driven even into your reach, in order to take what
was necessary out of her for your subsistence? But to
proceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September when I first landed on this island; about
twelve days after, fearing I should lose my reckon-
ing of time, nay even forget the Sabbath-days, for
want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved it with a
knife upon a large poll, in great letters, and setting
k up, in the similitude-of a cross, on the seashore
where I landed, viz. 1 came ensljore Sept. 30. 1659.
Every day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides
of this square post, and that on Sabbath was as long
again as the rest, and every sirst day of the month as
long again as that long one. In this manner I kept
my kalendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
ef time; but had I made a more strict search (as
I did afterwards) I need not have set up this mark;
for among the parcels belonging to the gunner,
carpenter, and captain's mate, those very things I
wanted I found, particularly pens, ink, and paper;
also two or three compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, prospective glass, books of naviga-
tion, three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. But here I cannot
but call to mind our having a dog and two cats on
board, whom I made inhabitants with me in my ca-
stle. But though one might think I had all the necek -
saries as were desirable, yet still I found several things
wanting. My ink was daily wasting I wanting nee-
dles, pins, and thread, to mend or keep my clothes
together, particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I finished
my little bulwark, and having some intervals of re-
laxation, after my daily wandering abroad for provi-
sion, I drew up this plan alternately, as creditor and
debtor, to remind me of the miseries and bleflings
of my life, under so many various circumstances.
EVIL.
I am cast upon a desolate
island, having no hopes, no
prospect of a welcome deli-
verance.
Thus miserably am I sin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company of all mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
should I say, a lonely an-
chorite) am I forced from
human conversation.
My clothes, after some
time, will be worn out;
and then I shall have none
to cover me.
When my ammunition is
wasted, then shall I remain
without any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature, no
foul to speak to; none to
beg assistance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
sound my woes where I am
understood; and beg assist-
ance, where I might hope
far relief.
GOOD.
But ytt I am preserved,
while my companions are
perished in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to be spared
from death! and. he who
has so preserved me can de-
siver me from this condition.
However I have food to
eat, and even a happy pro*
spect of subsistence whilst
Use endures.
At present I enjoy what
is absolutely needful; and the
climate is so hot, that, had
I ever so many, 1 should
hardly wear them.
Yet i fit does, I fee no dan-
ger of any to hurt me, as in-
Africa : And what if I had
been cast away on that coast i!
Is there not God to con-
verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee ? Already has-
'he afforded thee sustenance,
and put it in thy power to
provide for thyself till he
sends thee a desiverance.
B4
3a
ROBINSOK CRUSOE.
And now easing my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.
I must here add to the description I have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, I thatched it so close as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather. I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
fage and door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study those
mechanical arts that seemed to me practicable ; for
when I wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a
tree with my hatchet, making it as thin with my
axe as possible, and then smooth enough with my
adze to answer my designs; yet this way could I
make no more than one board out of a tree; but irr
length of time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and my
guns securely hanging against the side of the rock.
All this made it a very pleasant sight to me, being the
result of vast labour and diligence; which leaving
for a while, and me to the enjoyment of, I shall give
the reader an account of my journal, from the day
of my landing till the fixing and settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
'JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. I unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this deso-
late island, which I named the Desolate Island of De-
spair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day I spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect
but of death, either to be starved with hunger, or
devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
O&ob. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had,
that when the storm was abated, I might be able to
get some food and necessaries out of her, which I
conceived were not damaged, because the ship did
stand upright. At this time I lamented the loss of
my companions, and our misfortune in leaving the
vessel. When I perceived the ship, as it were, lie
dry, I waded through the sands, then swam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, an.l with scarcely any
wind.
To the 24th of this month, my time was employ-
ed in making voyages, every tide getting what I
could out of the ship. The weather very wet and'
uncertain.
OElob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon,
were overset; yet I recovered most of them again at
low water.
OElob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship dissolved in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low water.
This day I secured my goods from the inclemency of
the weather.
OElob. 26. I wandered to fee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. I fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half moon, intending
to erect a wall, fortified with piles, lined within with
pieces of cable, and covered with turf.
Nov. t. I erected my tent under a rock, and took
up my lodging very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
AW. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber*
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3.1 shot two wild fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morning
I allowed myself two or three hours to walk out with
'my gun, then worked till near 11 o'clock; and after
3*
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
refreshed myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two I would lie down to sleep. Extreme sultry
weather. In the evening go to work again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those killed I preserved. In
my return I perceived many wild birds, and was ter-
rified by some seals, which made osf to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th,
but omitted the I ith, whieh, according to my calcu-
lation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which however
much cooled the' earth, when thunder and lightning
caused in me a terrible surprise. The weather clear-
ing, in separate parcels I secured my powder.
Nov. 14, to 16. I made little boxes for my pow-
der, lodging them in several places. I also shot a
large fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the
place of the first, but with all my art could not make
a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brasilians call an iron tree. I had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being
very hard, and exceeding heavy; yet with much la-
bour and industry I made a sort of a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days I allowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve me not only for
a warehouse, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I
commonly lay in the tent, unless the weather was
rainy-that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at
certain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within
the pale with long poles in the form of rafters leaning
-
35
against the rock, and load them with slags and large
leaves of trees resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me before I could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts, to hang things out
of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
made a fort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24. 2;. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats, shot
one, wounded another; I led it home in a string,
bound up its leg, and cured it in a little time; at
length it became so tame and familiar, as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food after my ammunition was
spent.
Dec. 28. 29.. 30. The weather being excessive hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep
within doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by neces-
sity, I went out with my gun, and found a great store
of goats in the valleys ; they were exceeding shy, nor
could my dog hunt them down.
Jan. 3. to 14. My employment this time was to
finish the wall before described, and search the island.
I discovered a kind of pigeons like our house pi-
geons, in a nest among the rocks; I brought them
home, nursed them till they could fly, and then they
left me; after this I shot some, which proved ex-
, cellent food. Some time I spent vainly in contriving-
tp make a Cask; I may well say it was vain, because.
Bo'.
-
I could neither join the staves, or fix the heads, so
as to make it tight; then taking some goat's tallow
I had by me, and a little okum for thewick, I provided
myself with a lamp, which served me instead of can-
dles.
But'now a very strange event happened; for being
in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag, which was used to hold corn (as
I supposed) for the fowls: So immediately resolving
to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the husks and dirt
upon one side of the rock, little suspecting what the
consequence would be. The rain had fallen plenti-
fully a few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to sprout out
very green and flourishing; and when I came to
view it more nicely every day, as it grew, 1 found
about to or 12 ears of green barley appearing in the
very fame shape and make as that in England.
I can scarce express the agitations of my mind at
this fight. Hitherto I had looked upon the actions
of this life no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune; but now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren soil to the sort
of grain, and my ignorance in not conceiving how it
should come there, made me conclude, that miracles
were not yet ceased: Nay, I even thought that God
had appointed it to grow there without any seed>
purely fo» my sustenance in this miserable and deso-
late island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears,
through a grateful fense of God's mercies; and the
greater still was my thankfulness, when I perceived
about this little field of barley some rice stalks, won-
derfully flourishing in proportion to the crop within.
While I was thus surprisingly pleased in mind, I
concluded there must be more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly among
the rocks, but could not find any; when upon a
'
sudden, it came into my mind, how I had shaken
the husks of corn out of the bag, and then my admi-
ration ceased, with my gratitude to the Divine Being,
as thinking it was but natural, and not to be conceived
a miracle; though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wonderful
event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very carefully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting
one day I should reap the fruits of my labour; yet
four years were expired before I could allow myself
to eat any barley bread, and much longer time before
I had any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains
and industry for three or four months, at last I finish-
ed my cave on the 14th of April, having no way to
go into it but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder and ascended it;
after pulled it up, then let it down on the other side,
and descended into my new habitation, where I had
space enough, and so fortified that nothing could at-
tack me without scaling the walls.-
But what do all human pains and industry avail,
rf the blessings of God do not crown our labours?
Or who can stand before the Almighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm : For one time, as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened such a
dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of the
cave came crumbling about my ears, but the posts
seemed to crack terribly at the same time ; this made
me, in great amazement, run to my ladder, and get
over the wall; when there I plainly knew it was an
earthquake, the place I stood on sustaining three
terrible shocks in less than three minutes. And when
I saw the top of a great rock roll into the sea, then
I expected the island would be swallowed up every
moment; and dreadful it was to fee the sea thrown
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the most violent agitations and disorders by this-
tremendous accident.
For my part I stood like a criminal, at the place
of execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the .
earth, Iwas, as it were, sea-sick, and very much a-
fraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation, should overwhelm me and it in a lasting,
tomb.
When the third dreadful shock had spent itself,
my spirits began to revive; yet still I would not ven-
ture to ascend .the ladder, but continued sitting, not
knowing what I should do. So little grace then I
had, only to say, Lord, have mercy upon me! And no
sooner was the earthquake over, but that pathetic
prayer left me.
It was not long after when a horrible tempest a-
rofej at the same time attended with a hurricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be,
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
storm continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear,
the very trees up by the roots,, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain; when this was over I went
to my tent, but the rain coming again upon me in a
furious manner, obliged me to take shelter in the
cave, and then I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to let the water out. It continued
raining all that night, and some time the next day':
Yet no sooner did the weather clear up, but I. re-
solved to build me a little hut in some open place,
walled round, to defend me from wild creatures and
savages, as not thinking but at the next earthquake
the mountain would fall upon my habitation and me,
«md swallow up all,in its bowels.
April 19. 20. These days I spent in contriving how
and in what manner I should fix my place of abode;
all this while I was under the most dreadful ap-
prehensions. When I looked round my habitation,,
1
39
every thing I found was in its proper place. I had
several resolutions whether I should move or not; at
length I resolved to stay where I was, till I had found
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
Apr. 22- When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopped for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grind-stone of use to me, and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
the help os a wheel and a string.
Apr. 28. 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
Apr. 30. My bread falling short, I allowed my-
self but one buiscuit a-day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship,' whose stern was torn off,
and washed a great distance ashore, but the rest lay
in the sands. This I supposed was occasioned by the
earthquake. Now I resolved to keep my old place
of abode, and also to go to the ship that day, but
found it impossible.
May 3. I went on board, and with my saw sawed
off one of the beams which kept her quarter-deck;
then I cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some sish, but they were not
wholesome; the same day I also catched a young
dolphin.
May Cj, This day I also repaired to the wreck, and
sawed another piece of timber; and when the flood
came, I made a float of three great planks, which
was driven ashore by the tide.'
May 6. 7. 8. 9. These days I brought off the iroa
bolts, opened the deck with- the iron crow, and car-
40
Robinson crusoe.
ried two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.
May 10. ii. 12. 13. 14. All this time I spent in
bringing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets, on purpose
to cut some lead off the roll, but all in vain, for it
lay too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day,
for employing myself in looking for pigeons, I out-
stayed my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged' to the head
of the ship. -"
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck,
and with great dissiculty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and many of the seamens
chests; yet that day nothing came to land but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brasil pork
in it. I continued working to the 15th of June (ex-
cept necessary times for food and rest), and had I
known how to have built a boat, I had timber and
planks enough: I had also near 100 weight of sheet
lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the seaside^
I found a large tortoise or turtle, heing the sirst I had
seen on the island, though, as I afterwards found*
there were many on the other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in coaking it, found in
her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savoury and
pleasant I ever tasted in my hfe.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain; and it was something more chilly
and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad7 taken with a tremblings
and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish. ''
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition; prayed to
God frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. Again relapsed, much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak, yet I scrambled
out, shot a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it 1 I would willingly have stewed it and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was asflicted with an ague;
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water; prayed
to God in these words, Lord, in pity look upon me,
Lord have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me I After
this I fell asleep, which I found, had much refreshed
me when I awaked: I fell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream:
Methought I was fitting on the fame spot of
ground, at the outside of the wall, where I sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw
a man descending from a great black cloud and a-
Iight upon the ground: He was all over as bright as
a slash of fire that a little before surrounded him;
his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth,
as it were, trembled when he stepped upon the ground;
and slashes of fire seemed to fill all the air. No sooner
I' thought him landed upon the earth, but with a
long spear or other weapon he made towards me,
but first ascending a rising ground, his voice added
to my amazement, when I thought I heard him pro-
nounce these dreadful words, Unhappy wretch {seeing
all these things have not brought thee to repentance, thott
shalt immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadful
sentence, I thought he went to kill me with the spear
that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express
the horrors of my mind at this vision, and even when
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had
I received from my father's instructions, and that was
worn out by an uninterrupted series of seafaring im-
piety for eight years space; except what sickness for-
ced from me, I do not remember I had one thought of
lifting up my heart towards God, but rather had a
certain stupidity of foul, not having the least fense
of fear of the Omnipotent Being when in distress, nor
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert Afri-
can shore, I cannot remember I had one thought of
what would become of me, or beg his corisolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably used
me, nay, farther, when I was even delivered from
drowning, by escaping to this island, I never looked
upon it as a judgment, but only said I was an unfor-
tunate dog, and that is all. Indeed some secret trans-
ports of foul I had, which was not through grace,
but only a common flight of joy, that I was yet alive,
when my companions were all drowned; and no
other joy could I conceive but what is common with
the sailors over a bowl of punch after they have
escaped the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniencies might have called upon me for a
thankful acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed the
growth of my corn touched me with, some sense, but
that soon wore off again: The terrible earthquake
pointed to me as it were the finger of God, but my
dreadful amazement continued no longer than its
duration. But now when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and I could
leisurely view the miseries of death present themselves
before my eyes, then my awakened conscience began
to reproach me with my past life, in which I had so
wickedly provoked the justice of God to pour down
his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper; some prayers I uttered,
vyliich only proceeded from my fear of death; but
when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping; for he told me, that
is I did persist in my folly, Ishould not only be deprived
(if God's blessing, but have time enough to refiefl upon
my despising his inflruftions, and this in a wretched time
when none could help me. And now concluding it to
be fulfilled, having no foul in the island to admini-
ster any comfort to me, I prayed however earnestly
to the Lord that he would help me in this my great
calamity; and this, I think, was the first time I
prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I must
return to my journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation, and fearing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it a
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed, and to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum into it. The next thing I did was to
broil me a piece of goat's flesh, of which I eat butlittle.
I was very weak, however walked about, dreading
the return of my distemper, and at night I supped
on three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted and
eat, begging God's blefling therewith.
After 1 had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of.
doors with my gun, but so weak that -I fat down
and looked at the sea, which was smooth and calm.
While I continued here these thoughts came into my
mind: "-^
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence
came myself and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made?':
Our beings were assuredly created by some Al-
mighty invisible power, who framed the earth, the
sea, and air, and all therein; but what is that
power?
Certainly it must follow that God has created it
all. Yet, said I, if God has made all this, he must
be the ruler of them all, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes must indis-
putably have a power to guide and direct them.
And if this be so, (as certainly it must) nothing can
happen without his knowledge or appointment.
Then, surely, if nothing happens without God's ap-
pointment, certainly God has appointed these my
sufferings to befal me. And here I fixed my .firm
belief, that it was his will that it should be so; and
then proceeded to inquire, why should God deal
with me in this manner? or what had I done thus
to deserve his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending
me as a blasphemer, crying with a loud and piercing
voice, Unworthy wretch! dare you q/k what you have
done? Look upon your pafl life, and fee what you have
left undone. Alk thyself, why thou wert not long
ago in the merciless hands of death f Why not
drowned in Yarmouth Roads, or killed in the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Why not entombed in the bowels of wild beasts on
the African coast, or drowned here, when all thy
campanions suffered shipwreck?
Struck dumb with these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtful that'I could not
go to steep; and fearing the dreadful return of my
distemper, it caused me to remember that the Bra-
lilians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went
to my chest in order to find some, where heaven no
doubt directed me to a cure for both soul and body,
for there I found one of the bibles, which till this
time I had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into; I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco; first I took a
leaf and chewed it, but it being very green and
strong almost stupified me; next I steeped it in
some rum an hour or two, resolving when I went to
bed to take a dose of it; and in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of sire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure the least heat withi ut
suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the bible-rto read: No sooner did I open itrbut there
appeared to me these words, Call on me in the day of
trouble, and 1 will deliver, and thou Jhalt glorify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart, but soon wore off again, when I con-
sidered the word deliver was foreign to me; and as
the children of Israel snid, when they were promised
flesh to eat, Can God spread a table in the wilderness?'
Jn like manner I began to say, Can God himself
deliver me from this desolate island? However, the
words would still return to my mind, and after made
a great impression upon me. As it now was very
late, and the tobacco had dozed my head, I was in-
clined to sleep, but before I would lie down, I fell
,on my knees, and implored the promise that God
had made to me in the holy scriptures, that if 1 call-
ed upon him in the day of trouble, he .would deliver me.
With much dissiculty I after drank the rum, where-
in I had steeped the tobacco, which flying in my
head very violently, threw me into such a profound
flcep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked, or rather, I believe, I flept two days, ha-
ving certainly lost; a day in my own account, and I
could never tell any other way. When I got up, my
spirits were lively and cheerful, my stomach much
better, being very hungry; and, in short, no fit re-
turned the next day, which was the 29th, but I found
myself much altered for the better.
The 30th I went abroad with my gun, but not far,
and killed a sea fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which yet I cared not to eat when I brought
them home, but dined on two more of the turtle's
eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, ex-
cept not taking that quantity, neither did I chew of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; yet the
next day I had a little spice of the cold fit, which was
on the 1 st of July.
July 2. I took my medicines as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition I often thought of these words, / will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility pf it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me for disregarding the deliverances I had
received, even in the most forlorn and distressed con-
dition. What regard had I to God's abundant mer-
cies ? Had I done my part? He had delivered me, but
I had not glorified him; as much as to fay, I had not
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance,
and how could I expect a greater? So much did this
sensibly touch my heart, that I gave God thanks for
my recovery from sickness in the most humble pro-
stration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving to
read a chapter every morniag and nighc, as long as
my thoughts would engage me ; but when soon after
I set about this work seriously, I found my heart
deeply affected with the impiety of my past life. .
47
These words, that I thought were spoken to me in my
dream, revived, M these things have not brought thee
to repentance: After this, I begged of God to assist
me with his holy spirit in returning to my duty;
when perusing the scriptures one day, I came to
these words, He has exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance and to give remission: Immediately
I laid down the book, and with uplifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried, 0 blessed Jesus, thou Son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance! And now indeed I prayed with a true
fense of my condition, and a more certain hope
founded on the Word of God; now I had a different
sense of these words, Call on me and 1 .will deliver
you; that is, from the dreadful load of guilt which
oppressed my sinful foul, and not from a solitary life,
which might rather be called a blessing (seeing I
wanted neither food nor raiment) than living among
the race of human-kind, surrounded with so much
oppression, misery, and affliction; and in a word, I
came to this conclusion, That a deliverance from sin
was a much greater blessing than a deliverance from
affliction. But again I proceed to my journal.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my gun,
a little and a little at a time, having been reduced to
the greatest extremity of weakness. The applica-
tion and experiment I used were perfectly new ; nei-
ther could I recommend it to any one's practice;
for though it carried off the sit, it very much weak-
ened me, and Miad frequently convulsions -in my
nerves and limbs for some time. From hence I
learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms, and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health. In
this Hland I had been about ten months, never all the
.while having seen any human-kind, and so account-
ed myself as sole monarch; and as I grew better,
having secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
2
4«
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15 th of jsulyl began my journey. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore, and travelling farther, found the tide going
no higher than two miles up, where there was a little
brook of running water, on the banks of which were
many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth,
and covered with grass: On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk.
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtues of
which I did not understand; but a long time I
searched for the cassava root, which I knew the In-
dians in that climate made their bread of, but all in
vain. There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time I knew not what they were; likewise I saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the fame
way, and farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perceived different fruits, which lay in very great
abundance. The melons in plenty lay on the ground,
and clusters of grapes, ripe and very rich, spread
over the trees. You may imagine I was glad of
this discovery, yet eat very sparingly, lest I should
throw myself into a flux or fever. As for the grapes,
I found them of excellent use; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried rai-
sins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rislrrig, and served me in those seasons when no
grapes were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the sirst
time I had lain out of my habitation. And when
the morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure
tramy way, travelling about four miles, as I ima-
gined, by the length of the valley, directing my
course northward, there being a ridge of hills on the
south, and north side of mew At the end of this val-
ley I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west: There I found a little spring
of fresh water proceeding out of the side of a hill,
with its crystal streams running ^directly east. And
indeed here my fenses were charmed with the most
lovely object nature could afford; for the country
appeared so flourishing, green, and delightful, that
to me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descend-
ed on the side of that delicious vale, where I found
abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time; the juice
of which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
was resolved to carry home and lay up a store of
grapes, limes, and lemons, against the approaching
wet season: So laying them up in separate parcels,
and then taking a few of each with me, I returned to
my little castle, after having spent three day3 in this
journey: But before I got home, the grapes were so
bruised that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but few could I bring away.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprise found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me to conclude there were wild
creatures thereabouts. To remedy this, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out-branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the fun; and having well loaded myself
with limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.
And now it was, that contemplating on the fruit-
fulness of the valley, the pleasantness of the situation,
C
the security from storms on that fide the water, and
the delightfulnefs of an adjacent wood, I concluded
I was settled in the worst pirt os the country, and
therefore was thinking to remove my habitation. But
when I considered again, that though it was pleasant,
it was not by the sea-side, where there was a possibi-
lity, some time or other, a ship might either be driven
to, or sail by that coast; and that to inclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly frustrate all
hopes of a deliverance, I resolved to let my castle
remain where Providence had first assigned it. Yet
so ravished was I with this place, that I made me a
little kind of bower, surrounding it at a distance
with a double hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well
staked and filled with bullrushes; and having spent
a great part of the month of July, I think it was the
first of August before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raisins of the fen; the most of which I carried to my
cave; and happy for me I did so, by which I saved
the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. It began to rain this day; and though I
had made m? a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, 1 was obliged to return to
my old castle. Still the rain continued more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
4b violently that I could net stir out of my cave
for several days. This season I sound my family to
increase; for one of my cats that ran away from me,
and whom I thought had been dead, returned about
August, with three kittens at her heels, like herself,
which I thought strange, because both my cats were
females, and the wild cats of the island seemed to be
of a disferent kind fiom our European cats; but from
these cats proceeded such numbers, that I was forced
to kill and destroy them, as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not stir out, it
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which
I shot a goat, and after found a very large tortoise.
The manner of regulating my food was thus: A
bunch of raisins served me for breakfast; a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner; and two
or three turtle's eggs for my supper. While the rain
lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at enlar-
ging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards
one fide till I came to the outside of the hill, and
made a door or way out, which came beyond, my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to fee my-
self thus exposed, though I could not perceive any
thing to fear, a goat being the biggest creature I had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anni-
versary of my landing; and therefore humbly pro-
strating myself on the ground, confessing my sins,
'acknowledging God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy on me, I
faded for twelve hours till the going down of the fun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time, having no fense of reli-
gion, I never distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now
I made a longer notch than ordinary for the days of
rest and divided the weeks as well as I could, though
I found I ha£l '°st a day or two in my account. Soon
after my ink failing, I omitted a daily memoran-
dum of indifferent things, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
jj£e Xhe rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
lar to me? and experience taught me how to pro-
's Ci
vide for them; yet, in one thing I am going to re-
late, my experience very much failed me. You may
call to mind what I have mentioned of some bar-
ley and rice which I had faved; about thirty stalks
of the former, and twenty of the latter; and at that
time the fun being in its southern position going from
me together with the rains, made me conclude it a
very proper season to sow it. Accordingly, I dug up
a piece of giound with my wooden spade, and divid-
ing it in two parts, sowed*about two-thirds of my
feed, preserving by me about a handful of each. And
happy it was I did so, for no rains falling, it was'
choked up, and never appeared above the earth till
the wet season came again, and then it grew as if it
had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my bower,
there I sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox, which having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. Part of
the seed I had yet saved, not daring to venture all;
and my crop amounted to above half a peck of each
sort. But by this time I found the proper seasons to
sow in; and that two seed-times and two harvests I
might expect every year.
No sooner were the rains over, and the stakes,
which I had cut from the trees, shooting like willow-
trees the first year after lopping their heads, than I
was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they
grew so regularly beautiful, that they made a most
lovely appearance, and flourished so in three years
time, that I resolved to cut some more; and these
soon growing made a glorious fence, as in order I
shall observe.
And now I perceived that the season of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer and win-
Dry, sun getting north of the line.
ter as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons, as in
this manner:
Half February, '}
March, V Rainy,sun coming near the equinox.
Half April, J
Half April,
May,
June,
July.
Half August,
Half August, 1
September, \ Wet, the sun being then come back*
Half October, J
Half October, 1
November, I
December, f Dry,sun running south of the line*
January, I
. Half February, J
v
As the winds happened to blow, so the wet seasons
would continue longer or shorter; but when I sound
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I
took care beforehand to furnish myself with provi-
sions, and during the wet months fat within doors
as much as possible ; and in this time I contrived
to make many things that I wanted, though it was
with much labour and pains before I could accom-
plish them. The first I tried was to, make a.basket,
but all the twigs I could get proved so brittle, that
I could not then perform it. But now it proved of
excellent advantage to me, that, when a boy, I took
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the
fame town where my father lived, to view them at
work, and like other boys, curious to fee trie man-
ner of their working these things, and very ossicious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it, and
wanted nothing but the tools; and then it came
C 3 \
54
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into my mind that the twigs of that tree of which I
made my stakes might he as tough as sallow, willow,
and osiers, growing in England; and so resolving to
make an experiment, I went the next day to my
country seat, and sound some fit for my turn; and
cutting down numbers with my hatchet, I dried them
in my pale, and when fit to work with, carried them
lo my cave, where I employed myself in making se-
veral sorts of baskets, to put in whatsoever I pleased;
it is true, they were not cleverly made, yet they serv-
ed my turn upon all occasions.
But still I » anted two necessary things ; I had ne-
ver a cask to hold my liquor, except two rumlets al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size,
and some square case bottles ; neither had I a pot to
boil any thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to make
broth or stew a bit of meat; after this I wanted a
tobacco pipe, for which last I found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second row
of stakes, and worked in this wicker the dry season.
You may remember before, that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island;
accordingly, taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two bis-
cuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, I began my
journey ; and having passed the vale where my bower
stood, I came within view of the sea, lying to the west,
when it being a clear day, I fairly descritd land, but
could not say whether it was an island or a continent.
It extended from the \V. to the W. S. W. about ten
or fifteen leagues, as 1 concluded; neither could I
tell what place this might be, only thought it was
part of America, and where I might have been in a
miserable condition had I landed. Again, 1 considered,
that if this was the .Spanish coast, certainly one time or
other I should see some ship pass by, and if it was not,
then it must be the savage coast between the Spanisti
55
country and Brasil, which abounds with cannibals or
man-eaters, that devour human-kind.
As I proceeded forward I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine, the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grafs,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great dissiculty that
I could knock it down with my stick, and it was
some years I kept him at home before I could get
him to call me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
and foxes, as I thought them, but much disferent from
all I had met with: Several of these I killed, but
never eat them, neither indeed had I any occasion,
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
1 could defy Leadenhall-market to furnish me a
better table. In this journey I did not travel above
two miles in a day, because I took several turns and
windings to fee what discoveries I could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I designed
to rest all night, which was either in a tree or in a
place which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild
creature might suddenly surprise me. When I came
to the sea-shore I was amazed to fee the splendour
of it; its strand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful fish, and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins. I
might have shot as many as I pleased, but was spar-
ing of my ammunition, rather choosing to kill a she-
goat, which with much dissiculty I did, because of
the slatness of the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most pleas-
ing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so natural to
me, that 1 did not repine at my being seated on the
worst part os the island; and so travelling about 12
miles towards the east, I set a great pile on the
shore for a mark, concluding that my next journey
should be on the other side of the island, east from
my caftle, and so round till I came to my post again.
However I took another way back, thinking I could
not miss by having a constant view of the country;
but scarce had I travelled three miles, when I de-
scended into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills that were covered with wood, that I had no guide
but by the fun, nor even then unless I knew west
the position of the fun at that time of the day. What
added to my misfortune was, the weather proved so
hazy for three or four days as to oblige me to re-
turn to my post by the sea-side, and so backwards the
fame way I came. ' My dog surprised a kid in this
journey, and would have "killed it, had I not pre-
vented him. I had often been musing whether I
could not get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats to supply me after my ammunition was
spent. Upon which I made a collar for this little
creature with a string made of rope-yarn which I al-
ways carried about with me; and when I came to
my bower, there I inclosed and left him, and after a
month's time in this journey I came home to my old
habitation.
Nobody can suppose otherwise but that I had a
pleasing satisfaction when I returned to my little
castle, and reposed myself in my hammock. After
this journey I rested myself a week ; and the princi-
pal concern I then had was to make a cage for my
pretty poll; and then I began to consider the poor
kid I had left at my bower, and immediately I went
to fetch it home. When I came there, I found the
young creature almost starved ; when feeding it with
branches of such shrubs as I could find, I tied it as
before; but there was no occasion, for it followed me
like a dog, and as I constantly fed it, became so lov-
ing, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one of my
domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the molt
solemn manner as usual, it being the third year of my
abode in the island. I spent the whole day in acknow-
ledging God's mercies, in giving him thanks for mak-
ing this solitary life as agreeable, and less sinful, than
that of human society, and for the communications of
his grace to my foul, supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon his- providence^, and
hope for his eternal presence in the world to-come.
Before I considered how happy I was in this state
of life, towards that accursed manner of living I for-
merly used, while either I was hunting or viewing
the country, the anguisli of my foul would break out
upon me on a sudden,.and my very heart would sink
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner, lock-
ed up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean,
in an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes and
without redemption; and in this condition 1 would
often wring my hands and weep like a child; even
in the middle of my work this fit would take me,
and then I would immediately sit down and sigh,
looking on the ground for an hour or two together,
till such time as my grief would be vented, by burst-
ing out into, melting tears*.
As one morning I was suddenly pondering in my
mind, I opened my Bible, when immediately I fixed
iny eyes upon these words, / will never leave thee nor
forsake thee.' Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me, or else why should they appear just at
a moment when I am bemoaning my forlorn condi-
tion ? And if God does not forsake me, what matters-
it, since he can make me more happy in this state of
life than if I- enjoyed the greatest splendour in the
world? But while I was going to return God
thanks for my present state, something seemed to-
shock my mind, as if it had thus said, Unworthy
wretch! can you pretend to be thankful for a con-
dition from which you would pray to be delivered I
Here I/stopped; and though I could not say I thanked
the divine Majesty for being there, yet 1 gave God
thanks for placing to my view my former wicked
course of life, and granting me a true knowledge of
repentance. And whenever I opened or shut the
Bible, I blest kind Providence that directed my goods
without my order, and for assisting me to save it from
the power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: Firfl, My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly,
Seeking provision with my gun, which commonly
took me up, when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserv-
ing, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply, which took me up a great part of the
tlay ;i^and in the middle-of the day, the sun being in
its height, it was so hot that I could not stir out,
so that I had but four hours to work in; and then
my want of tools, help, and skill, wasted a great
deal of time; for I was two-and-forty clays making
a board fit for a long shelf, whereas two sawyers,
with their tools and sawpit, would have cut several
out of the same tree in half a day. But this was the
cafe, it was to be a large tree, because my board was
to be broad; I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping off the boughs and redu-
cing it to a piece of timber; this I hacked and hewed
off each side till it became light to move, then I
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as %
board, from end to end, then turned it downward?
cutting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue
S9
in such a piece of work; but this I went through
.with patience, as also many other things that my cir-
cumstances made-necessary for me to do.
But now came my harvest months, November and
December, in which I had the pleasing prospect of
a very good crop ; but such was my misfortune, that
the goats and hares having once tasted of the sweet-
ness of the blade, kept it so short, that it had not.
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent which,
J inclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot some of
its -ievourers, and my dog, which I had tied to the
field-gate, keeping barking all night, frightened the -
. Qreat.ures away.
No sooner did I get rid of these, but other ene-
mies appeared, whole flocks of several sorts of birds,
who only waited till my back was turned to ruin me.
So much did this provoke me, that I let fly and
killed three of the malefactors, and afterwards served
them as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror to others; and indeed
so good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long as
these criminals hung there. .. ,
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest of the year,
I reaped it with a scythe,made of one of my broad
swords. I had no great fatigue in cutting down my
sirst crop, it was so slender, , the ears of which I
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with my
hands instead of threshim* it.; and when my harvest
was over, I found my half peck of feed produce near
two bushels of rice, and two bufliels and a half of
barley. And now I plainly foresaw that, by God's
goodness, I stiould be furnished with bread; but yet
I was concerned, because I knew not how to grind or
make meal of my corn, nor bread, neither knew how
to bake it. Upon these considerations I would not
taste any of the crop, but preserve it against the next
* /'V s
season, and in the mean while use my best endeavours
to provide myself with materials to make bread.
But where were my labours to end? The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade after a
particular manner; the want of a harrow, I sup-
plied myself by dragging over the corn a great bough
of a tree; when it was growing or fully ripe, I
was forced to fence it, mow it, carry it home, thresh
it, part it from the chasf, and save it; and after all
this, I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it,
yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to
bake it. This set my brains on work to find some
expedient for every one of these necessaries against
the next harvest.
And now, having more feed, my first care was to
prepare me more land. I pitched upon two large
slat pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose,
in which I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge, which took me up three months, by which
time it was the wet season. While the rain kept
me within doors, I found several occasions to em-
ploy myself; and while at work used to divert my-
self with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name Poll, the first welcome
word 1 ever heard spoke on the island. I had been a
long time contriving how to make earthen vessels,
which I wanted extremely; and when I considered
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could
find any proper clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile to see what
aukward ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things
I made ; how many either fell out or cracked by the
violent heat of the fun, and fell in pieces when they
6t
were removed; so that I think it was two months
time before I could perfect any thing, and after this
great fatigue, made two clumsy things in imitation
of earthen jars; these however I very gently placed
in wicker baskets, made on purpose for them, and
- between the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw, and these 1 presumed would
hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal when the
corn was bruised. But as for smaller things, I made
them with better success, which the fun baked very
hard, such as little round pots, Sat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any
liquid thing, but to bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It once happened, that as I was
putting out my fire, I found therein a broken piece
of one of my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as
a tile. This made me contrive how to order my fire
as to make it burn some pots ; and having no notion
of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead, I fixed three
large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one
upon another; the fire I piled round the outside
with dry wood, and on the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly
red, I let one of them stand in the fire about five or
six hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of
the heat, and would have run to glass had I suffered
it -y upon which I slacked my fire by degrees, till the
redness abated ; and watching them till the morning,
I found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn as I
could desire.
No py can be greater than mine at this disco-
very; for after this, I may fay, I wanted for no
fort of earthen ware. I silled one of my pipkins with
water to boil me some meat, which \t did admirably
well, and with a piece of kid I made me some good
broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time. .'
The next concern I had was to make me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
gWnd it. Here indeed I was at a great lo s, as not
being sit for a stone-cutter, and many days 1 spent
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow
and make fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear
the weignt of a pestle, as would bre.ik the corn
without silling it .with sand ; but all the stones of the
island b. ing of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search ircitleik; and then I resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which having soon found,
1 formed with my axe and hammer, and then with
infinite labour m:ide a hollow place in it, just as the
Indians of Brasil make their canoes. When I had
finished this, 1 made a great pestle of iron-wood,
which I had formerly laid up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve to sift my
meal, and part it from the bran and the husk. Hav-
ing no sine thin canvas to search the meal throughi
I could not tell what to do; what linen I had was
reduced to rags; I had goats hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
At length I remembered 1 had some neckcloths of ca-
lico or muflin of the,.sailors, which I ha j. brought *
out of the ship, and with these I made three small
sieves, proper enough for the work. . -
And now I come to consider the baking part in
course. The want of an oven I supplied by making
some earthen pans very broad but not deep. When
I had a mind to bake, I made a great fire upon my
.hearth, the tiles of which I had made myself, and
when the wood was burnt into live coals, I spread
them all over it, till it became very hot; then sweep-
ing them away, I set down my loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pots upon them, drew the ashes
and coals all around the outside of the pots to con-
tinue the heat; and in this manner I used to bake
my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a complete
pastry-cook, making myself of the lice several cakes
and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
I had was bestowed in managing my new harvest and
husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time toirub, instead of thresh-
ing it. And now indeed my corn increased so much,
that it produced me about twenty bushels of barley,
and as much of rice, so that I not only began to use
it freely, but was thinking how to enlarge my barns,
and was resolved to sow as much at a time as would
be sussicient for me for a whole year.
All this while the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes might have
deterred me from it; for after I had attained that
place, I run the hazard of being killed and eaten by
the devouring cannibals ; and if they were not so, yet
I might be slain, as other Europeans had been who
fell'info their hands. Notwithstanding-all this, my
thoughts ran continually upon my acquiring that
shore.; and now I wanted my boy Xury, and the
Jong boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail. Then I
went to. the ship's boat that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm; she was but a
little removed, but her bottom was turned up by the
impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind.' With
all the strength I had, I tried whatever I could do,
with levers aud rollers I had cut from the wood, to
turn her, and repair the damages she had sustained.
This work took me up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mine it by digging away the sand, and so make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the fall; but after this was done, I was unable to
stir it up again, or to get under it, much less to movd
it forwards towards the water, and so I was forced to
give it over.
Not contented with this disappointment, I began
to think whether it was not possible for me to make
a canoe or periagua, such as the Indians make of the
trunk of a tree -t but here I lay under particulai
inconveniencies, want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it to the water when it was
made; however, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the inquiries I could make, with this very simple
answer I made to myself, Let's first make it, I'll war-
rant I'll find some way or other to get it along when
it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end
of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a
space, and then parted into branches. Twenty days
was I hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom,
fourteen more in cutting off the branches and limbs,
and a whole month in shaping it like the bottom
of a boat; as for the inside, I was three weeks with
a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such a manner
as that it was big enough to carry twenty-six men-,
much bigger than ever a canoe I saw in my life, and
consequently sussicient to transport me and all my
effects to that wished-for shore I so ardently desir-
ed.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
dissiculty to get it into the water, it lying about'ioa
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience^
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity; but
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insussicient to move it, as it was when I attempted
to move the boat. Then I proceeded to measure the 1
distance of ground, resolving to- make a canal, in or-
der to bring the water to the canoe, since I could not
bring the canoe to the water i but as this seemed to
be impracticable to myself alone, under the space of
eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some sort
of consideration, that I concluded it impossible to
be, done, and To this attempt was in vain also. And
now I saw, and not before, what stupidity it is to be-
gin a work before we reckon its costs, or judge right
of our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance. ......'
It was in the height of this work my fourth year
expired since I was cast on this island, and then
I did not forget my anniversary, but kept it with the
same ardent devotion I had done before. But now
my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
as a thing 1 had nothing to do with; and very well
might fay, as father Abraham unto Dives, Between
me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed from
the world I was separated, from its wickedness too,
having neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, or the pride of life; I had nothing to covet, be-
ing lord, king, or emperor over the whole country I
bad in possession, without dispute, and without con-
troul; I had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles,
timber in abundance, and grapes above measure;
but after I was served, what was all the rest to. me I
Xhe money I had by me lay as despicable dross,
which I would freely have given for a gross of to-
bacco-pipes, or a hand-mill' to grind my corn. In a
word, the nature and experience of these things- die-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
tated to me this just; reflection, That the good things
of this world are no farther good to us than they are
for our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give others, we can but enjoy as much as we use, and
no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to eat I did it with
thankfulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
that in this wilderness had spread this table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I should
have done if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before 1 had caught fish
or turtles, or lived, had I found them, like a mere
savage, by eating them raw, and pulling them in
pieces with my claws, like a beast. I next compared
my station to that which I deserved; how undutiful
I had been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from Heaven, being fed, as it were, by a mi-
racle, even as great Elijah's being fed by ravens,
and cast on a place where there was no venomous
creature to poison or devour me. In short, mak-
king God's tender mercies matter of great conso-
lation, I relinquished all sadness, and gave way to
contentment. - ».t. '-'
As long as my ink continued, which with water I
made last as long as I could, I used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened. And,
First, I observed, That the sa ne day I forsook, my
parents and friends, arid ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken and made a slave by the Sallee ro^
ver.
The very day I escaped out of the wreck of the
ship in Yarmouth Roads, a year after, on the fame
day, I made my escape from Sallee, in my patron's
fi fliing-boat.
The 30th of September, being the day of the year
I was born on, on that day twenty-six years after,
was I miraculously saved, and cast on shore on this
island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which I had brought out of the ship; and
though I allowed myself but one Cake a day, for
above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread
for near a year, before I got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before; however, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors chec-
qued shirts, which proved a great refreshment to me,
when the violent beams of the fun would not fusses
me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-coats,
which made me turn taylor, and after a miserable
botching manner, convert them into jackets. To pre-
serve my head, I made me a cap of goat-lkin, with
the hair outwards, to keep out the rain, which in-
deed served me so well, that 1 afterwards made me
a waistcoat and open-knee'd breeches of the fame;
and then I contrived a fort of an umbrella, covering
it with skins, which not only kept out the heat of
the fun, but the rain also. Thus being easy and set-
tled in my mind, my chiefest happiness was to con-
verse with God, in most heavenly and comfortable
ejaculations.
For five years after this I cannot fay any extraor-
dinary thing occurred to me. My chief employ-
ment was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and
rici, of both which 1 had a year's provision before-
hand. But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it at intermediate times my business to
make a second, of much inferior size ; aud it was two
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
years before I finished it. But as I perceived it would'
no ways answer rny design of sailing to the other
shore,, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what further discoveries I-
could make. To this intent, after having moved
her to the water, and tried how she would sail, I
fitted up a little mast to her, and made a sail of
the ship's fail that lay by me; I then made lockers
or boxes at the end of it, to put in necessary provi-
sions and ammunition, which would preserve them
dry either from rain or the spray of the sea; and in
the inside of the boat I cut a long hollow place to
» lay my gun, and to keep it dry, made a slag to hang
over 'it; my umbrella I fixed in a step in the stern
like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun off me. And
now resolving to fee the circumference of my little
kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage,,
putting in two dozen of my barley bread loaves,
an earthen pot full of parched rice, a little bottle
of rum, half a goat, powder and shot, and- two
watchcoats. It was the 6th of November, in the
6th year of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in
this voyage, which was much longer than I expect-
ed, being obliged to put further out, by reason of the
rocks that lay a great way in the sea; and indeed
so much did these rocks surprise me, that I was for
putting back, fearing that if I ventured further, it
would be out of my power to return. In this con-
fusion I came to an anchor just off shore, to which
I waded with my gun on my shouhler, and then
climbing up an hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and resolved to run all
hazard.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a vio-
lent current running to the east, coming very close
to the point, which I the more carefully observed,
thinking it dangerous, and that, when I came to it, I
might be drove into the sea by its force, and not abla
69
to return to the island; and certainly it must have
been so, had I not made this observation; for on
the other side was the like current, with this differ-
ence, that it set osf at a greater distance, when I per-
ceived there was a strong eddy under the land, so
that my chiefest business was to work out of the first
current, and conveniently get into an eddy. Two
days I staid here, the wind blowing very briskly
E. S E. which being contrary to the current, leaves
a great breach on the sea upon the point; so it was
not fit for me to keep too near the shore, upon ac-
count of the breach, nor to stand at too great a dis-
tance for fear of the streams. That night the wind
abating, it grew so calm that I ventured out; but
surely I was to be a memento to all rash and igno-
rant pilots; for I was no sooner come to the point,
and not above the boat's length from the shore, but
I was got into a deep water, with a current like a
mill, which drove my boat along so violently, that
it was impossible for me to keep her so much as to
the edge of it; but it forced me more and more out
from the eddy to the left -of me, and all I could do
with my paddles was useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Alas! now I began to think'myself quite lost^
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island, L
was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea,
after what provisions ] had was spent, or besore, if a
storm should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? With longing eyes did I
look upon my little kingdom, and thought the island
the pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee mprei
Wretched creature t whither am I going? Why did
I murmur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be there again?
I
While I was thus contemplating, I found myself to
t>e driven about two leagues into the sea; however,
1 laboured till my strength was spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon, I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart the more, when,
in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been lost
another way, for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards the
island, if once it had disappeared; but it proving the
contrary, I set up my mast again, spread my sail, and
stood away northward, as much as I could, to get
rid of the current; and no sooner did the boat be-
gin to stretch away, but I perceived by the clearness
of the water, a change of the current was near^ for
where it was clear the current abated. To the east
I soon saw, about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rock?, which caused it again to separate;
and as the main force drove away more southwardly,
leaving the rocks to the north east, so the other came
back by the repulse of the rocks, making a sharp
eddy, which returned back again to the north west
with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the ladder, or to be saved from thieves
just going to take away their lives, or else such who
have been in the like calamities, may guess my pre-
sent excess of joy; how heartily I run my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread
my sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully
before it with a smart tide under foot. By the as-
sistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, I found the water to be
at a sort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock which caused thi$
disaster, stretching, out as I observed before to the
southward, which throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasioned another eddy to the
north; but having a fair brisk gale, I stretched a-
cross this eddy, and in an hour came within a mile
of the shore, where I soon landed to my unspeakable
comfort; and after an humble prostration, thanking
God for my deliverance, with a resolution to leave
all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe into a little cove, and laid me down to take a
welcome repose. When I awoke, I was considering
how I might get my boat home; and coasting along
the shore I came to a good bay, which ran up to a
rivulet or brook, where finding a safe harbour, 1 stow-
ed her as safe as if she had been in a dry dock made
on purpose for her.
And now I perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on soot; when taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, I be-
gan my journey, and in the evening came to my
bower, where I again laid me down to rest. But it
was not long before I was awakened in great surprise
by a strange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, Poor Robin! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been f
So fast was I asleep at first that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I thought
I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. . But as the
voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times, being
terribly asfrighted, I started up in the utmost con-
fusion; when no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll fitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewailing language I used to talkand
teach him, which he so exactly learned, that hq
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my-
2
74
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
face, and cry, Po»r Robinson Crusoe, where are you f
Where have you been? Honv came you here? and such
like prattle as I had constantly taught him. But
though I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great
while before I could adjust myself; first, I was amaz-
ed how the creature got thither, and that he should
fix about that place, and no where else. When I
was assured it could be no other than my honest Poll,
my wonder ceased; so reaching out my hand, and
calling familiarly Poll, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and Hoiu
did I come here? and where had I been? as if the
bird was overjoyed to fee me; and so I took him
home along with me.
Now though I was pretty well cured of my ram-
bling to sea again, yet I could wish my boat, which
had cost me so much trouble and pains, on this fide
the island once more, which indeed was impracti-
cable; and so I led a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, 1 fanci-
ed I could, upon occasion, make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the tools I had to work withal but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I con-
trived to make them with a wheel, which I found
much easier and better ; making my work shapeable,
which before was rude and ugly. But I think 1 was
never so elevated with my own performance or pro-
ject, as for being able to make a tobacco-pipe, which
though it proved an aukward clumsy thing, yet it
was very sound and carried the smoke perfectly well,
to my great satisfaction.
Also I improved my wicker ware, making me a-
bundance of necessary baskets, which though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
73
things home in, as also for holding my stores, bar-
ley, rice, and-other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner I stiould kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and fee if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I found
one morning in one of them an old he-goat, and in
the other three kids, one male, the other two fe-
males.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For had I kept him three
or four days without victuals, and then given him
some water with a little corn, he would have been
as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together. But I had great dissiculty be-
fore I could bring them to my habitation. It was
some time before they would feed, when throwing
them some corn, it so much tempted them, that they
began to be tame; from hence I concluded that if
I designed to furnish myself with goats flesh, when
my ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them
up like a flock of sheep about my settlement was the
only method I could take. I concluded also I must:
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this was to have some inclosed piece of ground,
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them
so esfectually that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking
was very great for one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first care
was to find a convenient piece of ground, where there
was iikely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and -cover to keep them from the fun.
But here I began madly, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I inclosed it with
infinite pains, this hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles about. Indeed had it been ten miles
I had time enough to do it in; but then I did not
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole island, and
consequently as dissicult for me to catch them. And
this thought came into my head, after I had carried
on, I believe, about fifty yards; when I resolved to
inclose a piece of ground 150 yards in length and
ico in breadth, sussicient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more grodnd. Upon
which, I vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took
me about three months in hedging the first piece; in
'which time I tethered the three kids in the best part
of it, feeding them as near me as possible to make
them familiar: And indeed very often would I carry
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which means they grew
so tame, that when my inclosure was finished, and I
had let them loose, they would run after me for an
handful of corn. This indeed answered my end;
and in a year and a half's time I had a flock of about
twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years after
they amounted to three-and-forty, besides what I had
taken' and killed for my sustenance. After this, I
inclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with pens to drive them into, that I might take them
as 1 had occasion.
, But still I had additional blessings, not only in
having plenty of goatb flesh, but milk too, which in
my beginning 1 did not so much as think of: And
incited, though I had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet after some
efl'yys and miscarriages I made me both, and never
afterwards wanted. . '<-< > . -
>
75
How mercifully can the Omnipotent Power com-
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities! How can he sweeten the bitterest provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons ! What a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, when I expected no-
thing at first but to perish with hunger!
Certainly a stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner. There was my royal Majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
my dutiful subjects, whom, if I pleased, I could ei-
ther hang, draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it
away. When I dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring presume to do so till I had done. Poll,
as if he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and who
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, con-
tinually fat at my right hand; while my two cats
fat on each side of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. Yet
these were not the cats I had brought from the
ihip ; they had been dead long before, and interred
near my habitation by mine own hand: But one of
them, as I suppose, generating with a wild cat, these
'were the couple I had made tame; whereas the rest
run into the woods, and grew so impudent as to re-
turn and plunder me of my stores, till such time as I
shot a great many, and the rest left me with this at-
tendance. And in this very plentiful manner did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing more indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat. I knew not which way to get her round the
island. I resolved one time to go along the shore by
land to her; but had any one in England met such a
figure, it would either asfrighted them, or made them
burst into laughter: Nay, myself could not but smile
at my habit, which I think, in this place, it is very
proper to describe.
The cap I had upon my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat-slcin, with a slap or pent-
house hanging down behind, not only to keep the
sun from me, but to shoot the rain osf from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the flesh in these parts. I had
a short jacket of goat-lkin, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that it reached to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stockings, I
had none, but made a resemblance of something, I
know not what to call them; they were made like
buskins, and laced on the sides like spatterdashes,
barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit. I had
on me a broad belt of goat-lkin dried, girt round
with a couple of thongs instead of buckles; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and
dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another
belt, not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made also of
goat-skin, to hold my powder and shot. My basket
I carried on my back, and my gun on my shoulder,
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat-skin
umbrella, which, however, next my gurs, was the
molt necessary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not so swarthy as the mulattos, or as might
be expected from such a person as I, who took so
little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten de-
grees of the equinox. At one time my beard grew
so long, that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as s had both razors and scislars in store,
I cut it ail oft', and sussered none to grow except a
large pah ot Mahometan whiskers, the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, not long
enough to hang a hat upon, but of such a mon-
77
tlrous size, as would have amazed any in England to
have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit; and
so without fear, and without controul, I proceeded
on my journey, the prosecution of which took me up
five or six days. I first travelled along the sea-shore
directly to the place where I first brought my boat
to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but now, hav-
ing no boat to take care of, I went over the land a
nearer way, to the fame height that I was before
upon; when looking forward to the point of the
rock which lay out, and which I was forced to
double with my boat, I was amazed to fee the sea so
smooth and quiet, there being no ripling motion, or
current, any more than in other places, which
made me indeed ponder some time to imagine the
reason of it, when at last 1 was convinced how it was,
which was this; the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the currents of waters from some great
rivers on the shore, must be the occasion of these ra-
pid streams ; and that consequently, as the winds blew
more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the current
came the nearer, or went the further from shore. To
fatisfy my curiosity, I waited there till evening, when
the tide of ebb being made from the rock, I plainly-
perceived the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther oif, near half a league from
the shore; whereas in my expedition it set quite up-
on it, furiously hurrying me and my canoe along with
ir, which at another time it would not have done-
And now I was convinced that, by observing the eb-
bing and flowing of the tide, I might easily bring my
boat round the island again; but when I began to
think of putting it in practice, the remembrance of
the late danger I was in struck me with such horror,
that I changed my resolution, which was more safe,,
though more laborious; and this was to make ano~
ther canoe, and so have one for one side os the ifl uid,-
and one for the other. - -
Here I ihink it very proper to inform my readers,
that I had two plantations in the island; the first
was my little fortification, fort, or castle, with many
large and spacious improvements; for by this time
I had enlarged the cave behind me with several little
caves, one within another, to hold my baskets, corn,
and straw. The piles with which I made my wall
were grown so lofty and great, as obscured my ha-
bitation; and near this commodious and pleasant
settlerneift lay my two well cultivated and improved
corn fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in
the proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country feat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where, having planted many
stakes, I made inclosures for my goats, so strongly
fortified by labour and time, that it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossible
for them to break through. As for my bower itself,
J kept it constantly in repair, and cut the trees in
such a manner as made them grow thick and wild,
and form the most delightful shade. In the centre
of this stood my tent thus erected: I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over them a piece of
the ship's fail, beneath which I made me a sort of
a couch, with the skins of the creatures I had slain,
and other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailors blankets, which I had saved from the wreck
of the sliip, and covering myself with a great watch-
coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and keep her in very good order; and
sometimes I would venture in her a cast or two srom
shore, but no sarther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accident,
should hurry me from the island as before. But now
I entreat your attention, while 1 proceed to inform
you of a new but most surprising scene of life which
here befel me.
You may suppose that after I had been here so
long, nothing could have been more amazing than to
have seen a human creature. But-one day it hap-
pened that going to my boat, I saw the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, very evident on the
'fand, as the toes, heel, and every part of it. Had
I seen an apparition, in the most frightful manner, I
Could not have been more confounded; my willing
ears gave the strictest attention. I cast my eyes a-
round, but neither could satisfy the one or the other.
When I proceeded alternately to every part of the
shore, still it was all as one; neither could I fee any
other mark, though the sand about it was as suscep-
tible to take impression as that which was so plainly
stamped. Thus, struck with confusion and horror, I
returned to my habitation, frightened at every bush
and tree, as taking them for men; and being pos-;
sessed with the wildest ideas, got over I cannot tell
how. But that night my eyes never closed, though
farther from danger, when even then I formed no-
thing but the most dismal imaginations, thinking it
must be the mark of the Devil's foot which I had
seen; for otherwise how could any mortal body come
to this island? And if so, where was the ship that
transported them ? And what signs of any other foot-
steps? Though these seemed very strong reasons for
such a supposition, yet (thought I) why should the
Devil make the print of his toot to no purpose, as I -
can fee, when he might have taken other ways to have
terrified me? why mould he leave his mark on the
other'side of the island, and that too on the sand,
where the surging waves of the ocean might soon
have erased the impression? Surely this action is not
consistent with the subtilty of S uan, laid I to my-
self, but rather must be some dangerous creatme,
some wild savage of the main land over against me,
D4
V-.
that, venturing too far in the ocean, was driven here
either by the violent currents or contrary winds; and
so, not caring to stay on this desolate island, was
gone back to sea again.
Happy was I in my thoughts that no savage had
seen me in that place, yet much terrified, lest, hav-
ing found my boat, they should return in numbers
and destroy me, or at least carry away all my corn,
and destroy my flock of tame goats: In a word, all
my religious hopes vanished, as though I thought
God could not protect me by his power, who had so
wonderfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of Providence there are in the
life of man! How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumstances? We love to*
day what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour what
we seek the next; and this was evident in me in the
most perspicuous manner; for I, who before had so
much lamented my condition, in being banished from
all human kind, was now almost ready to expire,
when I considered that a man had set his foot on this
desolate island : But when I considered my station of
life, decreed by the infinitely wise and good provi-
dence of God; that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereignty, who had an undoubted right to go-
vern and dispose of his creatures as he thinks conve-
nient; and that his justice and mercy could either
punish or deliver me: I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust sincere-
ly in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly resign
myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou /halt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
cheerfully from my bed, I offered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner; and when I had done, tak-
ing up my Bible to read, these words appeared first
in my fight: Wait on the Lord', and be of good cheer,
and he sJjall strengthen thy heart; wait, I fay, on the
Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, 33 to-
remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and nights, at last I ventured out of
my castle, and milked my goats, one of which was
almost spoiled for' want of it. I next, though in-'
great fear, visited my. bower, and milked my slocks
there also; when growing bolder, I went down to -
the shore again, and measuring the print of the foot
to mine, to see whether, perhaps, I myself had not
occasioned that mark, I found it much superior in
largeness ; and so I returned home possessed with the;
notion, that either some men had been ashore, or
that the island must be inhabited; and therefore, that
I might be surprised before I was aware.
Struck with a second and more terrible sear, seve-
ral thoughts of security came into my mind ; and that
night I was first proposing to cut down my inclo-
sures, wid turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent,
the island in hopes of the fame. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn fields, for the very fame reason
and lastly, I concluded to demolish my bower, lest
seeing such a place of human contrivance, they might
come farther and attack me in my little castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger' suggest unto.
me; and I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate
King Saul, when not only, oppressed by the Philis-
tines, but also forsaken by God himself; and it i9.
strange, that a little before having entirely resigned
, myself to the will of God, I should now have so lit-
tle confidence in him, fearing those more who might
kill this fading body, than him who could destroy my
immortal foul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
pose the next morning; and then, joining reason
with my fear, I considered, that this delightful and
pleasant island might not be entirely forsaken, as I
might think; or that the inhabitants from the other
shore might sail either with design or necessity by
cross winds ; and if the latter circumstance, they de-
parted upon the first opportunity. But still my sear
occasioned me to think of a place for retreat, upon
an attack. I now repented that I had made the door
that came out beyond my fortification ; but resolving
to make me a second, 1 drove between that double
row of trees, which I planted about 12 years before,
several piles, thickening it with pieces of timber and
old cables, and strengthening the foot of it with
earth which I dug out of my cave. 1 also made me
seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets like can-
non, fitting them into frames resembling carriages.
This being finished with indefatigable industry, for
a great way every way I planted sticks of osier-like
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving a
large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and that they might not
'be sheltered by the young trees, if they offered to
approach the outer wall. And indeed scarce two
years had passed over my heac^, when there appeared
a lovely shady grove, and in six years it became a
thick wood perfectly impassable. For my safety, I
left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which I
set two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, leaving room to place ano-
ther ladder upon that; so that when I took those
down, it was impossible for any man to descend with-
out hurting himself; and if they had, they would
still be at the outside of my outer wall. But while I
took all these measures of human prudence for my
own preservation, I was not altogether unmindful of
affairs: To preserve my stocks of tame goats, that
the enemy should not take all at once, I looked out
for the most retired part of the island, which was the
place where I had lost myself before-mentioned, and
there finding a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick woods, I worked so
hard, that in less than a month's time I fenced it so
well round, that my flocks were very well secured
in it, putting therein two he-goats and two she ones.
As this labour was occasioned purely by my fear-
ful apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of
a man's foot; not contented with what I had done,
I searched for another place towards the west point
of the island, where I might also retain another flock.
Then methought I perceived a boat at a great distance
in the sea, but could not possibly tell what it was for
want of my perspective glass. I considered then it
was no strange thing to see the print of a man's foot;
and concluding them cannibals, blessed God for my
being cast on the other side of the island, where none
of the savages, as I thought, ever came. But when I
came down the hill to the shore, which was the S. W.
point of the island, 1 was not only amazed, but per-
fectly confirmed in my opinion; for the place was
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and bones of human
bodies; and then I perceived a space like a circle, in
the midst of which had been a fire; about this fire
I conjectured these wretches fat, and unnaturally sa-
crificed and devoured their fellow-creatuies.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful
spectacle both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge the violent disorder from my stomach. So
that when I had vomited in a very excessive manner,
I returned towards my habitation, and in my way
thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
fo long out of their hands.
Now though reason and my long residence here
had assured me, that these savages never came up to-
D 6
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the thick woody parts of the country ; and that I had
no occasion to discover myself, who was so perfectly
concealed from them; yet such an abhorrence did I
still retain, that for two years after I confined myself
only to my three plantations; I mean my castle,
country feat, and inclosure in the woods. And when
in this solitary life, my dreadful apprehensions began
to weir away, yet my eyes were more vigilant for
fear of being surprised, and I was cautious of firhig
my gun, lest being heard by those creatures, they
should proceed to attack me; but resolving manfully
to lose my life if they did, I went armed with three
pistols stuck in my'girdle, which, added to the de-
scription I have jziven of myself before, made me
look with a very formidable appearance.
And thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed. When I com-
pared my condition to others, I found it far from
being miserable: And indeed would all persons com-
pare their circumstances, not with those above them,
but with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, I am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
rntirings and complainings that are in the world. For
my part, I did not want many things: Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in spoiled some
inventions for my own conveniencies ; one of which
was really very ridiculous, except I could accomplish
it, and happy it was 'hey hindered me from putting
it in practice. My design was to brew me some beer,
when I had neither caiks sussicient, nor could make
any, to preserve it in ; neither had I hops to make it
keep, yeast to make it work, nor a copper or kettle
to make it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years,
I might bring this to bear, as I had done other things i
But now my inventions were placed another way;
and one was, how I might destroy some of these can-
nibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertain-
ments; and so sating a victim from being sacrificed,
he might aster become my servant. Many were my
contrivances for this purpose, and as many more ob-
jections occurred after I hatched them; for when I
contrived to dig a hole under th* pi ice where they
made their sire, and put therein five or six pounds of
gunpowder, -which would consequently blow up all
those that were near it; why then I was loth to spend
so much upon them, lest it should not do that certain
execution I could desire; and but only asfright, and
not kill them. Having laid this design aside, I pro-
posed to myself to lie privately in ambush, in some
convenient place, with my three guns double loaded,
and let fly at them in the midst of their dreadful ce-
remony; and having killed two or three of them at
every shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my, three
pistols, and not let one mother's son escape; and so
much did this imagination please my fancy, that I used
to dream of it in the night-time. To put my design
in execution, I was not long seeking for a pi ice very
convenient for my purpose, where, unseen, I might
behold every action of the savages. Here I placed my
two muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace
of slugs, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol-bullets ; the fowling-piece was charged
with near a handful of the largest swan-shot; and in
every pistol were about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner would the wel-
come light spread over the element, but, like a giant
refreslied with wine, as the Scripture has it, would I
iflue forth from my castle, and, from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, view if I could fee any invaders ap-
proach unlawfully to my kingdom. But having wait-
ed in vain two or three months, it not only grew
very tiresome to me, but brought me into some con-
sideration, and made me examine myself, what right
I had to kill these creatures in this manner?
If (argued I to myself) this unnatural custom of
theirs be a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs to the
8(5
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands, to shower down vengeance upon them;
and perhaps he does so, in making them become one
another's executioners: Or if not, if God thinks these
doings just, according to the knowledge which they
conceive, wl;at authority have I to pretend to alter the
decrees of Providence, which has permitted these ac-
tions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the be-
ginning of the creation? They never offended me,
what right have I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's bleed? And, as I have since
known, they value no more to kill and devour a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat
rhutton. From hence it followed, that these people
were no more murderers than Christians, who many
times put whole troops to the sword, after throwing
down their arms. Again I considered, that if 1 fell
upon them, I should be as much in the wrong as the
Spaniards, who had committed the greatest barbari-
ties upon these people, who had never offended them
in their whole lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was
eminent for a race of men without common compas-
sion to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a prin-
pal sign of tjie most generous temper. In a word, I
concluded never to attack them, whose numbers
might overpower me; or that some escaping, might
bring thousands to my certain destruction; nor so
much as to show myself, which might oblige me eveit
to a necessary duty of defence. And indeed religion
took their part so much as to convince me how con-
trary it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding hu-
man blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever
they are to one another; and that I had nothing to
do with it, but leave it to the God of all power and
dominion, as I said before, to do therein what seem-
ed convenient to his heavenly wisdom. And there-
fore on my knees, I thanked the Almighty for deli-
vering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged his pro--
tection that I might never fail into their hands..
*7
Thus, giving over an attempt which I had rashly
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion af-
terwards; only I removed my boat which lay on the
other side of the island, and every thing such as they
were that belonged to her, towards the east, into a
little cove, that there might not be the least shadow
of discovery of any boat near, or habitation upon the
island. And then my castle became my cell, keeping
very retired in it, except to milk my she-goats, and
order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure it is, these savages never
came here with expectations to find any thing, and
consequently never wandered from the coast; and as
they might have several times been on shore, as well
before as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what a state I might
have been, had I suddenly met them slenderly armed,
with one gun only loaded with small shot ; and how
great would have been , my amazement, if, instead
of seeing the print of one man's foot, I had perceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, have
left me no possibility of escaping. These thoughts
would sink my very foul within me, so that I would
fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as the con-
sideration of my gratitude to the Divine Being mov-
ed it from my heart: And then I fell into a contem-
plation of the secret springs of Providence; how
wonderfully we are delivered, when we are insensible
of it ; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or la-
byrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint shall
direct us in the right way, when we intend to go out
of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our business, fense,
or inclination. Upon which, I fixed within me this-
as a certain rule, never to disobey those secret im-
pressions of my mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that osfered, for which I yet could assign no
reason. But let it be how it will, the advantage of this
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
conduct very eminently appeared in theJatter part
of my abode on this island. I am a stranger in deter-
mining whence these secret intimations of Providence
derive; yet, methinks, they are not only some proofs of
the converse of spirits, but also of the secret commu-
nications they are supposed to have with those that
have not pasted through the gloomy vale of death.
As in these many anxieties of mind, the care of
my preservation put a period to all inventions and
contrivances, either for fpture accommodations or
conveniencies; so I never cared to drive a nail, chop
a stick, sire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise
should be heard, or the smoke discover me; and,
upon this account, I used to burn my earthen ware
privately in a cave which I found in the wood, and
which I made convenient for that purpose; but the
principal cause that first brought me here was to
make charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my
bread and meat, without any danger. While I was
cutting down some wood for this purpose, I perceiv-
ed a cavity behind a very thick branch of under-
wood. Curious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sussicient for me to stand upright in
it; but when I had entered and took a further view,
two rolling shining eyes, like slaming stars, seemed
to dart themselves at me, so that I made all the haste
out that I could, as not knowing whether it was the
Devil or a monster that had taken his residence in
that place. But when I recovered from my surprise,
1 called myself a thousand fools, for being afraid to-
fee the Devil one moment, who had now lived al-
most twenty years in the most retired solitude;
and therefore, resuming all the courage I had, I
took up a flaming firebrand, and in I rushed again;
when not having proceeded above three steps, I
was more asfrighted than before; for then I heard
a very loud sigh, like that of a human creature in
the greatest agony, succeeded with a broken noise*
89
resembling words half expressed, and then a broken
sigh again. Stepping back, Lord ! (thought I to my-
self) where am I got? Into what enchanted place
have I plunged myself, such as are reported to con-
tain miserable captives, till death puts an end to their
sorrow? And indeed such a great amazement was I
in, that it struck me with a cold sweat; and had my
hat been on my head, I believe my hair would have
moved it off. But again, encouraging myself with
the hopes of God's protection, I proceeded forward,
and, by the light of my firebrand, perceived it to be
a monstrous he-goat, lying on the ground gasping
for life, and dying of mere old age. When at first I
stirred him, thinking to drive him out, the poor an-
cient creature strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able; so 1 even let him lie still, to affright the sa-
vages, should they venture into this cave. In the
mean time I looked round me, and found the place
but small and shapeless; at the further fide of it I
perceived a fort of an entrance, yet so low as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it;
when, having no candle, I suspended my enterprise
till the next day,; and then I came provided with six
large ones of my own making.
When upon my hands and feet I had creeped through
the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I think,
about twenty feet; but surely mortal never saw such
a glorious fight in this island before! The roof and
walls of this cave reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles, as though they were
indented in with shining gold, precious stones, or
sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightful cavity or grotto, of its kind, that could be
desired, though entirely dark: The floor was dry
and level, and had a kind of gravel upon it; no
nauseous venomous creature to be seen there, nei-
ther any damp or wet about it: I could find no
fault but in the entrance, which I thought might be
9<o
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
very necessary for my defence, and therefore was re-
solved to make this place my most principal maga-
zine. I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, plant-
ed in the nature of cannon. In a barrel of gun-
powder, which I took out of the sea, I brought a-
way about sixty pounds of good powder, which was
not damaged; and these, with a great quantity of
lead for bullets, I removed from my castle to this re-
treat, now fortified both by art and nature.
Surely it is no wonder, if at this time I thought
myself like one of the giants of old, who were said to
live in caves and holes among the rocks, inaccessible
to any but themselves, or, at least, most dangerous to
attempt; so that now I despised both the cunning
and strength of the savages, either to find me out or
to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused my
late dreadful amazement: The poor creature gave
up the ghost the day after my discovery; and it
being difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably entombed him in the fame place where
he departed, with as much ceremony, as any Welsh
goat has been interred about the high mountain Pen-
menmoure.
I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and much easier were my thoughts than for-
merly, contriving several pretty amusements and di.
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speakEng-
Jish, and pronounce his words very articulately and
piain, so that for many hours we used to chat toge-
ther after a very familiar manner, and he lived with
me no less than twenty-six years : My dog, who was
nineteen years old, sixteen years of which he lived
with me, died of mere old age: As for my cats,
they multiplied so fast that 1 was forced to kill or
d;ive them into the woods, except two or three*
which became my particular favourites. Besides
these, I continually kept two or three household kids
about me, which I did learn to feed out of my
hand, and two more parrots which would talk indif-
ferently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excel-
lent as the first, as not taking that pains with them.
Several sea fowls I had also, which having wounded,
I cut their wing, and growing tame, they used to
breed among the low trees about my castle walls; all
which were very agreeable to me.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them,! It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a slaming light, about two miles from
me at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
served some savages had been, as before, but not on
the other side; but to my areat affliction, it was on
my side of the island. ''
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly I could. In the next
place I put myself in a posture of defence, by loading
my muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, resolving to defend myself till my
latest breath. After two hours space, impatient for
intelligence, I set my lavlder up to the side of the;
hill where there was a slat place, and then pulling
the ladder after me, ascended the top, where, laying
-myself on my belly, with my perspective glals I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes haled upon snore, wait.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ing for the flood to carry them off" again. You can-
not easily express the consternation I was in at this
fight,especially seeing them near me; but when I per-
ceived their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts, be-
ing very fully convinced that I might go abroad with
security all the time of flood, if they were not before
landed. And indeed this proved just as I imagined;
for no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle away,
but the tide made north-west. Before they went
off they danced, making ridiculous postures and
gestures, for above an hour, all stark naked, but
whether men or women, or both, I could not per-
ceive. When I saw them gone I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword hanging by my side, I
went to the hill where at first I made a discovery
of these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which, with the rest, were making over to the main
land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies, appeared in
my sight; and so, fired with indignation, I was fully
resolved to be revenged of the first that came there,
though I lost my life in the execution. It then ap-
peared to me that the visits which they made to this
iflmd were not very frequent, it being fifteen months
before they came again ; all this time I was very un-
i easy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions I had of
their surprising me unawares; nor dared I offer to fire
a gun on that side of the island where they used
to appear, lest taking the alarm, the favages might
return with many hundred canoes, and then God
knows in what manner I should have made my end:
And thus I was a year or more before I ever saw any
. of these devouring cannibals again.
93
But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention, for a while eluded the force
of my thoughts in revenging myself on those hea-
thens.
It was the j 6th of May (according to my wooden
kalendar) that the wind blew exceeding hard, accom-
panied with abundance of lightning and thunder all
that day, and succeeded by a very stormy night.
What occasioned this I could not imagine; but as
the seeming anger of the heavens made me have re-
course to the Bible, whilst I was seriously pondering
upon it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a
gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprise made me start up in a mi-
nute, when, with my ladder, ascending die moun-
tain as before, that very moment a slash,of fire pre-
saged the leport os another gun, which, I presently
heard, and found it was from that part of the sea
where the current drove me away. I could not then
think otherwise but that this m,ust he a.ship in dis-
tress, and that these were the melancholy signals tor
a speedy deliverance. Indeed, great was my sorrow
upon this occasion, but altogether vain and fruitless.
However, I brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and making a handsome pile -set it on
fire on the hill. Certain it. was, that they plainly
perceived it by their firing another gun as loon as
it began to blaze, and after that several more from the
same quarter. All the night long did I keep up this
fire ; and when the air cleared up I perceived some-
thing a great way at,sea directly east, but could not
distinguilh what it was, even with my glass, by rea-
son the weather was so very foggy out at sea. How-
ever, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and per-
ceiving it not to stir, 1 presently concluded it must be
a ship at anchor; and so very hasty I was to be sa-
tisfied, that, taking my gun, I went to the south-east
94
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
part of the island, to the same rocks where I had beeri
formerly drove away by the current; in which time
the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow I perceived the wreck of a ship cast away
upon these hidden rocks, which I found when I was
out with my boat, and which, by making a kind of
an eddy, were the occasion of my preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's ruin;
for undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at E. N. E.
Now, had they perceived the isknd, as I could not
imagine they did, certainly, instead of firing their
guns for help, they might rather have ventured in
their boat, and saved themselves that way. Then I
thought that perhaps they had done so upon seeing
my fire, and were cast away in the attempt; for I
perceived no boat in the ship. Again, I imagined,
that perhaps they had another vessel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
boat up. Or, lastly, that the boat might be driven
into the main ocean, where these poor creatures
might be in the most miserable condition. But as all
these conjectures were very uncertain, I could do no
more than commiserate their distress, and thank God
for delivering me in particular, when so many perish-
ed in the raging ocean.
When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, I could perceive no room to suppose
any of them faved: I cannot explain, by any possible
force os words, what longings my foul felt upon this
fight, often breaking out in this manner: Oh! that
there had been but two or three, nay, even one person
faved, that we might have lived together, conversed
with and comforted one another ! And so much were
my desires moved, that when I repeated these words,
Oh! that there had been hit'one! my hands would
so clench together, and. my fingers press the prjms of
my hands so close, that had any soft thing been be-
2
tween, they would have crushed it involuntarily,
while my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
Till the last year of my being in this island, I ne-
ver knew if any had been saved out of this ship or
not, and had only the affliction some time after to
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck:
There was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
s pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of; in his pocket were two pieces of
eight and a tobacco-pipe, the last of which I pre-
ferred much more than I did the first. And now the
calmness of the sea tempted me to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not only to get something neces-
sary out of the ship, but perhaps some living creature
'might be on board whose life I might preserve. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that imme-
diately I went home and prepared every thing neces-'
sary for the voyage, carrying on board my boat pro-
visions of all sorts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh
water, and a compass. So putting off, I paddled the
canoe along the shore till I came at last to the N. E.
part of the island, from whence I was to launch into
the ocean; but here the currents run so violently,
and appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me, foreseeing that if I was driven into any of these
currents, I might be carried not only out of the
reach or tight of the island, but even inevitably lost
in the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that t gave
over mv enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where stepping out, I sat me down on a rising
hill, very pensive and thoughtful. I then perceived
that the tide was turned,and the flood came on, which
made it impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours. To be more certain how the sets of the
tides or currents lay when the flood came in, I as-
cended a higher piece of ground, which overlooked
the sea both ways; and here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point
of the island, so the current of the flood set in close
by the shore os the north fide, and all that I had to
do was to keep to the north of the island in my
return.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead of a blanket, the hea-
vens being my tester. I set out with the first of the
tide full north, till I felt the benefit of the current,
which carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not
with such impetuosity a6 before, as to take from me
all government of my canoe; so that in two hours
time I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
in a most melancholy manner. It seemed to be a
Spanish vessel by its buildings, stuck fast between two
rocks; her stern and quarters beaten to pieces with
the sea, her mainmast and foremost were brought
off by the board, as much as to fay, broken short
off. As I approached nearer, I perceived a dog on
board, who perceiving me coming yelped and cried,
and no sooner did I call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of which I took him al-
most famished with hunger and thirst ; so that when
I gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wojf could
devour it more greedily, and he drank to that de-
gree of fresh water that he would have burst himself
had I suffered him. ,
The first sight I met with in the ship were two
men drowned in the cook-room or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: Hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
!
1
:
'Waves. There were several casks of liquor, whe-
ther wine or brandy I could not be positive, which
lay in the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by
the ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for
me to pretend to meddle with: Likewise I perceived
several chests, which I thought might belong to the
seamen; two of them I got into my boat, without
examining what were in them. Now, had the stern
of the ship been fixed, and the fore-part broker*
off", certain I am I should have made a very pros-
perous voyage; since by what I after found in these
two chests, I could not otherwise conclude but' that
the ship must have abundance of wealth on board:
Nay, if I must guess by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the
Rio de la Plata, in the southern part of America, be-
yond the Brasils, to the Havannah, in the Gulph of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. What became of
the rest of her sailors, I could not certainly tell; and
all her riches signified nothing at that time to any-
body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons, full of liquor, which with some la-
bour I got into my boat: In a cabin were several
muskets, which 1 let remain there, but took away
with me a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it; I took also a fire-shovel and tongs»
two brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a gridiron, all which were extremely necessary
to me, especially the fire-shovel and tongs. And
so with this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I came
away, the tide serving for that purpose; and the
same evening, about an hour within night, I attain-
ed the island, after the greatest toil and fatigue ima-
ginable.
That night I reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what I
had gotten in my new found subterraneous grotto»
and not carry my cargo home to my ancient castle.
When I had refreshed myself, and got all my effects
on shore, I proceeded to examine the particulars:
And so tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at the Brasils,
nor indeed near so good. At the opening of the
chest, several things appeared very useful to me; for
instance, I found in one a very sine case of bottles,
containing the finest and best forts of cordial waters:
Each bottle held about three pints, curiously tipped
with silver. I found also two pots full-of the choicest
sweetmeats, and two more which the water had ut-
terly spoiled. There were likewise several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of linen white handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths, the former of which were absolutely ne-
cessary for wiping my face in a hot day; and in the
till, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about
eleven hundred in all; in one of which, decently
wrapped up in a piece of pape-, were six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars and wedges of the fame
metal, which, I believe, might weigh near a pound.
In the other chest, which 1 guessed to belong to the
gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that at-
tended: it, I only found some clothes of very little
value, except about two pounds of fine glazed pow-
der, in three slasks, kept, as I believe, for charging
their fowling-pieces on any-occasion. So that, on
the whole, I had no great advantage by this voyage.
The money indeed was as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable, all which I would have freely parted
with for two or three English pair of shoes and stock-
ings; things that for many years I had not worn,
except -lately those which I had taken off the feet of
those unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not so good as English shoes, either for ease or
service: And having found in the seamens chests
about fifty pieces of eight in rials, but no gold, I
suppose what I took from the first belonged to an
ossicer, to whom this seemed to have a much inferior
person for its owner. Well, the money, as despicable
as it seemed, I likewise lugged to my cave, laying
it up securely as I did the rest of my cargo. After I
had done all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing
or paddling her along till I came to my oM harbour,
where I carefully laid her up, and so made the best
of my way to my castle. When I arrived there, every
thing seemed quiet and safe; so that now my only
business was to repose myself after my wonted man-
ner, and take care of my domestic asfairs. But
though I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful, yet still I was more vigi-
lant than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did, it was to the east part of
the island, where I was well assured that the savages
never came, and where I might not be troubled to
Carry that heavy load of weapons for my defence,
as I was obliged to do if I went the other way.
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
ajl which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was rilled with nothing but projects and de-
signs how I might escape from this island: And so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-
bling disposition, that had I the same boat I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured once more to
the uncertainty of the raging ocean. ,
But certainly I was an unhappy instance of that
part of mankind, who make themselves wretched by
their dissatisfaction with the station which Gad has
placed them in: for, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition, and my father's excellent advice,
the contrary to which was, as I may fay, my ml-
ginal sin, my following mistakes of the fame nature
had been the means of my present unhappy station.
What business had I to leave a settled fortune, and
W-ell-stocked plantation, improving and increasing,
where by this time I might have been- worth a hun--
dred thousand moidores, to turn supercargo to
Guinea, to fetch negroes, when time and patience
would have so much enlarged qur slock at home, as
to be able to employ those whose more immediate
business it was to fetch them home, even to our
ndoors?
But as this is commonly the fate of young
heads, so a serious reflection upon the folly of it
ordinarily attends the exercise of future years, when
the dear-bought experience of time is so much re-
pented of. Thus it was with me at thai season; but
notwithstanding what I had, or might suffar upon
these occasions, the thoughts of my deliverance
ran so strongly in my mind, as seemed to check all
the dictates of my poor reason and philosophy. And
now, to usher my kind reader with greater pleasure
to the remaining part of my relations, I slatter my-
self it will not be taken amiss to give him an account
of my first conceptions on the manner of escaping,
and upon what foundation I laid out my foolish
schemes.-
I must now suppose myself retired to my castle
after my late voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up
and secured, as usual, and my condition in the
same manner as before, except being richer, though I
had as little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came among
them. One night in March, being the rainy season,
in the sour-and-twentieth year of this my solitude, I
was lying on my bed awake, very well in health, with-
out distemper, pain, or uncommon uneasiness, either
of body or mind; yet for all this I could not com-
pose myself to sleep the night long. All this tedious
while it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head : I traced quite over the
whole history of my life in miniature, from my ut-
most remembrance of things till I came to this island;
and then proceeded to examine every action and pas-
sage that had occurred since I had taken possession
of my kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter
I was comparing my happy posture of affairs in the
beginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear,
and concern, since I 'discovered the print of a foot
in the sand; that while I continued free without no-
tions, I was capable of forming any dreadful appre-
hensions; though I ought rather to be thankful for
the knowledge of my danger, since then it was the
greatest happiness to have sussicient time to provide
against it. How stupendous is the goodness of Pro-
vidence, which set such narrow bounds to the fight
and knowledge of human nature, that while men
walk in the midst of so many dangers, they are kept
serene and calm, by having the event of things hid
from their eyes, and-knowing nothing at all-of those
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps they
are dissipated and vanished quite away!
When I came more particularly to consider of tlie
real danger I had for so many years escaped; how
I had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quillity at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had only interposed between me and
the destructive hands of the cannibals, who wouM
devour me with as good an appetite as I Would a pi-
geon or curleu: Surely all this, I fay, could not but
make me sincerely thankful to my great Preserver,
whose singular protection I acknowledged with the
greatest humility, and without which I must inevi-
tably have fallen into the cruel hands of these devour-
ers.
Thus having discussed these thoughts in the clear-
est manner, according to my weak understanding, 1
next proceeded to consider the wretched nature of
these destroying savages, by seeming, though with
.great reverence, to inquire why God should give up
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
any of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to bru-
tality itself, to devour its own kind? But as this was
rather matter of abstruse speculation, it better became
me to inquire, what part of the world these wretches
Jived in; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home;
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
I could not order myself and my business so, that I
might be as able to attain their country, as they were
to come to my kingdom?
Never had I the least thoughts how I should ma-
'D9ge myself when I came thither; what would become
os me if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how
I should escape from them if they made an attempt
upon me. And supposing I should fall into their
power, what could I do {or provision, or which way
should I bend my course? Now, though these things
did express the greatest horror and confusion imagin-
able, yet still I looked upon my present condition the
most miserable that possibly could be, and that nothing
xould be worse except death. For (thought I) could
I but attain the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with some reliefi or coast it along, as 1 did with
my boy Xury on the African shore, 'till I came to
some inhabited country, where I might meet with
some relief, or fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if I failed, why then I couid
but meet with death, which would put an end to all
my miseries. But yet I must here note, that all this
was the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient
temper, made desperate, as it were, by long conti-
nuance of the troubles and the disappointments I had
met with in the wreck, where I hoped to have found
some living person to speak to, by whom I might have
'known in what place I was, and of the probable m;ans
of my deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were a-
gitated, my resignation to the will of Heaven was en-
tirely suspended; so that I had no power to fix my
}
mind to any thing but the project os a voyage to the
main. And indeed so much was I inflamed upon this
account, that it set my blood into a ferment, and my
pulse beat high as though I had been in a fever; till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it, made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
Certainly it is very strange that I did not dream of
what I was so intent upon; but instead of which,
my mind roved on a quite different thing, altogether
foreign to it., I dreamed, that as I was issuing from
my castle one morning, as customary, I perceived up-
on the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming
to land, who had brought with them another Indian,
whom they designed to make a sacrifice of, in order
to devour; but just as they were going to give the fa-
tal blow, methought the poor designed victim jump-
ed away, and ran directly into a little thick grove be-
fore my fortification, to abscond from his enemies;
when perceiving that the others did not follow hirn,
that way, I appeared to him; that he humbly kneel-
ed down before me, seeming to pray for my assist-
ance; upon which 1 showed him my ladder, made
him ascend, carried him to my cave, and he became
my servant; and when I had gotten this man, 1 said
to myself, now surely I may have some hopes to at-
tain the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, tell me what to do, and where I must go for
provisions; what places to shun, what to venture to,
and what to escape. But when I awaked, and found all
these inexpressible impressions of joy entirelyvanished,
1 fell into the greatest dejection of spirits imaginable.
Yet after all, I made this conclusion, that my only
way of escaping was to get a savage; and after I had
ventured my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural fense he might have of
such a preservation might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
E4
objection reasonably interposed, how can I effect this
(thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of them*
and kill them all? Why should I proceed on such a
desperate attempt, which before my scruples had sug-
gested to me were unlawful, and made my heart
tremble at the thoughts of so much blood, though it
were a means to procure my deliverance! And though
I might, according to my reason, suppose that these
men were the real enemies to my life, and would de-
vour me, was it in their power, so that it was self-
preservation in the highest degree to free myself from
this dread of life, by acting in -my own defence, as
if they were actual! yv assaulting me; though all these
things, I fay, seemed to me to be of the greatest
weight, yet, as I just said before, the dreadful
thoughts of shedding human blood, struck such a
terror to my soul, that it was a long time before I
could reconcile myself.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
On? For, notwithstanding the many disputes and per-
plexities I had with myself about it, right or wrong,
I was resolved to get one of these savages into my
hands, let it cost what it would, or lose my life in
she attempt. Thus inspired with a firm resolution,
all my wits were at work, in the next place, to find
Out what methods I should take to answer my design;
and this indeed was very dissicult to resolve on. Since
then I could not pitch upon any probable means for
it, I resolved continually to be in a vigilant posture,
to perceive when the savages came on shore, and so
leave the rest to the event, let the opportunities of-
fer as they would.
Such was my fixed resolution, and accordingly I
set myself upon the scout as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
iimel went out to the west end,and south-west corner
of the island almost every day to seek for canoes, but
none appeared. This was a very great discouragement,
at which I was very much concerned; yet never did
this wear osf the edge of my desire to the things,
but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: In a word, I was never at first so careful
to shun the loathed sight of these savages,asl was now
eager to be upon them. Besides, I thought myself
'suffkteritly able to manage one, two, or three savages,
if I had them, so as to make them my entire slaves,
to do whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent
their being able at any time of doing me a mischief.
Many a time did I use to please myself with this af-
fair, Avith song and ardent expectations;, but nothing
yet presented; all my deep projected schemes and nu-
'merous fancies vanished away, as though while I re-
tained those thoughts, the decree of Providence was
such that no savages were to come near me.
It was about a year and a half, that as I was most
seriously musing of 'sundry ways how I should attain
my end, one morning early I was very much surprised
~by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore toge*
ther on my fide the island, and the creatures that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight. Such
a number of them disconcerted all my measures; for
seeing so many boats, each of which would contain
six, and sometimes more, I could not tell, what to
think of it, or how to order my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed: Upon which,
much discomforted and perplexed, I lay still in my
castle; however I put myself in the same posture for
an lattnck that I had formerly provided against, and
'was ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. But when I had waited a long while, till
'such time as my impatient temper would let me bear'
it no longer, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and,'as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at
<two 'stages; however, standing that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that by any means they could;
ES, >
not perceive me; and here 1 observed, by the assist-
ance of my perspective glass, no less than thirty in
number around a sire, feasting upon what meat they
had dressed: How they cooked it, or what it was, I
could not then perfectly tell; but they were all dan-
cing and capering about the slames, using many fright-
ful and barbarous gestures.
But while with a curious eye I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits funk within me, when I per-
ceived them drag two mifcr-able creatures from the
boats to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I supposed,
they had done before. It was not long before one of
them fell upon the ground, knocked down, as I sup-
posed with a club, or wooden sword; for that was
their manner, while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their cookery,
and then fell to devour him as they had done the for-
„ mer, while the last unhappy captive was left by him-
self till such time as they were ready for him. The
poor creature looked round him with a wishful eye,
trembling at the thoughts of death, yet seeing him-
self a little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it
were, inspired"him with hopes of life, that he started
away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands directly to that part of the coast where
my ancient and venerable castle stood.
You may imagine I was dreadfully affrighted upon
this occasion, when, as I thought, they pursued him
in a whole body, all running towards my palace. And
now indeed I expected that part of my dream was
going to be fulfilled, and that he would certainly sly
to my grove for protection; but for the rest of my
dream I could depend nothing on it, that the savages
would pursue him thither and find him there. How-
ever, my spirits beginning to recover, I still kept upon
my guard, when I plainly perceived there were but,
three men out of the number that pursued him;
and I was insinitely pleased with what swiftness the
poor creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground of them, that I plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it for half an hour, there was not the least
doubt but he would save his life from the power of
his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek, that
very fame where I sailed into with all my esfects from
the wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I
very much seared the poor victim would be taken, if
he could not swim for his escape ; but soon was I out
of pain for him when he made nothing of it though
at full tide, but with an intrepid courage, spurred
on by the fense of danger, he plunged into the flood,
swimming over in about thirty strokes, and then land-
ing, ran with the fame wonderful strength and swift-
ness as before. When the three pursuers came to
the creek, one of them, whom I perceived could'
not swim, happily for his part, returned back to his
company; while the others with as equal courage,
but much less swiftness, attained the other side, as
though they were resolved never to give over their
pursuit. And now, or never, I thought was the time
for me to procure a servant, companion, or assistant;
and that I was deereed by Providence to be the instru-
ment that should save this poor creature's life. I im-
mediately descended my two ladders with the greatest
expedition, I took up my two guns, which I said be-
fore were at the bottom of them; and getting up again
with the same haste towards the hill, I made nearer the
sea: In a word, taking a short cut down the hill, I in-
terposed between the pursuers and the pursued, hal-
lowing aloud to the latter, who venturing to look back,
was no doubt at first as much terrified at me as them.
I beckoned to him with my hand to return back, in
the mean time slowly advancing towards the pursuers;
when suddenly rushing on the foremost, I knocked
kirn down with the stock of my piece, and laid him
Ed
slat on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire, lest
the rest should hear, though at that distance I que-
stion whether they could or not; and being out of
sight of the smoke, they could not easily have known
what to make of it. The other savage seeing his
fellow fall, stopped as if he had been amazed, when
advancing towards him, 1 could perceive him take
his bow from his back, arid fixing an arrow to it, was
preparing to flioot at mt, and witTiout dispute might
have lodged the arrow in my breast, had 1 given him
leave; but in this absolutely necessary cause of self-
preservation, I immediately fired at him, and shot
him dead, just as his hand was going to draw the
fatal string. All this while the savage who had fled
before, stood still, had the satisfaction to fee his ene-
mies fall, or killed, as he thought, who designed to
take away his life: So affrighted was he with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood as it were like
Lot's wife, fixed and immoveable, without fense, and
without motion. This made me hallow to him again,
making the plainest signs I could to him to draw near-
er : I perceived he understood these tokens, by his ap-
proaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid I
should kill him too, he stopped again. Several times
did he advance, and as often stopped in this manner,
till coming more to my view, I perceived him trem-
bling, as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon
which I looked upon him with a smiling countenance,
and still beckoning to him, at length he came close to
me, kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking me by my foot, set the fame upon
his head; and this, as 1 understood afterwards, was-
a token of swearing to be my Have for ever. I took
him up, and making very much of him, encouraged
him in the best manner I could. But here my work
was not yet finished; for I perceived the savage whom
1 knocked down was not killed, but stunned with
Uie blow, and began to come to himself. Upon which-
I pointed to my new servant, and showing him that
his enemy was not yet expired, he spoke some words
to me, but what I could not understand; yet being
the first sound of a man's voice I had heard for above
these twenty-five years, they were very pleasing to me.
But there was no time for reflection now, the wound-
ed savage recovering himself so far as to sit upon the
ground, which made my poor prisoner as much afraid
as before; to put him out of which fear I presented
my other gun at tbe man, with an intent to shoot
him; but my savage, for so I must now call him, pre-
vented my firing, by making a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side. No sooner did I grant his request, but away
he runs to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his
head> as dexterously as the most accomplished execu-
tioner in Germany could have done; for it seems these
creatures make use of wooden swords, made of hard
wood, which will bear an edge, enough to cut off
heads and arms at one blow. When this valorous
exploit was done, he came to me laughing, as a token
of triumph, delivered me my sword again with abun-
dance of surprising gestures, laying it along with the
bleeding and ghaiViy head of the Indian at my feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived was the manner of killing the savage at such
a distance without a bow and arrow; and such was
liis longing desire to know it, that he first pointed to
the dead creature, and then made signs to me to grant
him leave to go to him. Upon which I bid him go,
and as well as I could made him sensible I granted his
request. But when he came there, how wonderfully
was he stricken with amazement! First he turned him
on one side, then on another, wondering he could
perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding inwardly;
and after sussiciently admiring the wound the bullet
had made in his breast, he took up his bow and ar-
I IO
ROBINSON CRUSOE:
tows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, less
t
the rest missing their companions, might come in
pursuit of him. And this 1 found he understood very
well, by his making me understand that his design
was to bury them, that they might not be seen if it
happened; and which by signs again I made him
sensible I very much approved of. Immediately he
fell to work, and never was a grave-digger more dex-
terous in the world than he was; for in au instant,
as I might fay, he scraped a large hole in the sand
with his hands sussicient to bury the first in, there
he dragged him, and without any ceremony covered
him over. In like manner he served the other: So
that I am sure no undertaker could be more expert
in his business, for all this was done-in less than a
quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and
instead of carrying him directly to my castle at first,
I conveyed him to my cave on the further part of
the island: And so my dream was not fulfilled in
that particular, that my grove should prove an asy-
lum or sanctuary to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
joy that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave
him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water
to drink, of which feeding very cheerfully, to his
exceeding refreshment, I made him a convenient bed
with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes) and then point-
ing to him made signs for him to lie down to sleep,
upon which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very handsome comely young fel-
low, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large ; tall, and well shaped; and, as I could
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His coun-
Ill
tenance had nothing in it fierce and surly, but rather
a sort of majesty in his face-, and yet, especially when
he smiled, he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European. His hair was not curled like wool, as
many of the blacks are, but long and black, with the
most beautiful, yet careless tresses spreading over his
shoulders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as the Virginians,
Brasilians, or other Americans, but rather of a bright
dun olive colour, that had something agreeable in it,
though not very easy to give a description of. His face
was round and plump, with a small nose, very dif- ',
ferent from the slatness of the'negroes, a pretty fmaH
mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well set, and white
as the driven snow. In a word, such handsome
features, and exact symmetry in every part made
me consider that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no less graceful and accomplished than the
great Oroonoko, whose memorable behaviour, and
unhappy contingencies of life has charmed the world,
both to admiration of his person, and compassion to
his susferings.' ,'
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my hap-
piness centered in this, that I had now got a good ser-
vant, or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I was
resolved to prove a kind master, and lasting friend.
He had not, I think; slept above an hour, when he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard hy, put he run from the cave towards me in my
inclosure, and laying himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made, all the antic gestures
imaginable, to express his thankfulness to me for be-
ing his deliverer.. I confess, though the manner of
his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to oc-
casion laughter, yet I was very much moved at his
affection, so that my heart melted within me, fear-
ing he might die away in excess of joy, like reprieved
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
malefactors; and then I was incapable either to let
him blood, or administer physic. And I wish many
Christians would take example by this heathen, to
have a lasting remembrance of those great benefits
and deliverances they have received, by the kind me-
diation and powerful interposition of their benefac-
tors and deliverers: And I should be glad also if I
had no occasion to blame many, who, instead of
thankfully acknowledging these kind of favours and
benefits, rather abuse and contemn those who have-
been the principal instruments to save them from de-
struction.
But leaving those very just reflections, I must re-
turn to the object that occasioned them : For my man,
to conclude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down
'Jii6 head again on the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his head, as he had done be-
fore, making all the signs of subjection, servitude
and submission imaginable, to let me understand he
would serve me as long as his life endured. Asl un-
derstood him in many things, I made him sensible I
was very well pleased with him; and in a little time
I began to speak to him, and learn him how to talk
to me again. In the first place I made him to un-
derstand his name to be Friday^ because it was on
that day I saved his life. Then I taught him to fay
Ma/ier, which I made him sensible was to be my
name. I likewise learned him to say yes and no, and
to know what they meant. I gave him some milk in
an earthen pot, making him view me while I drank
it before him, and soaked my bread in it; and I gave
him a cake of bread, causing him to do the like, to
which he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there, but no sooner
did the morning light appear, than I ordered him to
arise and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine;, at.
which he seemed very glad, as being stark naked, not
so much as any thing to cover what ought to be con-
cealed. As we, passed by the place where the two
men had been interred, my man pointed directly to
their graves, showing me the marks that he had made
to find them again ; giving me to understand by signs
that he should dig them up and devour them: Upon
which I appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost abhorrence, made as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning him with my hand to
cbme away, which he did with the greatest reverence
and submission. After this I conducted him to the
top of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages were
yet remaining there; but when I looked through my
perspective glass, I could fee no appearance of them,
nor of their canoes, so that it was very evident they
never minded their deceased companions whom We
had slain, which if they had, they would surely have
searched for, or left one boat behind for them to
follow, after they returned from their pursuit.
But still my curiosity and desire of satisfaction ani-
mating my spirit with fresh courage, I took my man
Priday with me, putting a sword into his hand, with
the bow and arrows at his back, which I perceived
he could use very dexterously, causing him to carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself; and thus
equipped against all attacks, away we marched direct-
ly to the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, I was struck with the utmost hor-
ror at so dreadful a spectacle; whilst Friday indeed
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt, in
bis turn, one of these devourers. Here lay several
human bOnes, there several,pieces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
blood ran promiscuously as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadful sight, Friday took all
the pains he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four prisoners to
feast upon, three of whom they had eaten, and that
he was the fourth, pointing to himself; that there
having been a bloody battle between them and his
great king, in the just defence of whom he was taken
prisoner, with many others; all of these were carried
to several places to be devoured by their conquerors,
and that it was his misfortune to be brought hither
by these wretches for the fame purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and so burned them to ashes: Still I found my
man retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh; but such an
extreme abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but concoal it; for I
made him very sensible, that is he offered any suck
thing I would certainly shoot him.
All this being done, I carried my man with me to
my castle; and then I gave him a pair of linen draw-
ers, which I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest
before-mentioned; and which, with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well : In the next place I made
him a jerkin of goat's skin, such at my skill was able
to manage, though 1 thought myself then a tolerable
good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made
of a hare-lkin, very convenient and fashionable.
'Thus being clothed tolerably well, my man was no
less proud of his habit than I was in feeing him in
it. Indeed he went very aukwardly in these things
at first, the drawers being too heavy on his thighs,
not used to wear any weight, and the sleeves of the
waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his
arms; but by a little easing where he complained
they hurt him, and by using himfelf to them, at
length he took to them very well.
My next concern was where I should lodge him;
and that I might do very well by him, and yet be per-
fectly easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in the in-
side os the last, and outside of the first; and as there
,was an entrance or door in my cave, I made a formal
framed door-case, and a door to open on the inside.
] barred it up in the night time, taking in my lad-
ders too; so that .was my man to prove treacherous,
there would be no way to come at me in the inside
of my innermost, wall, without making so much noise
in getting over, that it must needs waken me; for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up to
the side of the mountain, which was again laid
cross with smaller stick* instead of laths, and thatch- .
ed over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was »s strong as reeds; and at the hole of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
but have fallen down and made a great noise; and as
to my weapons, every night I toot them all to my'
bed-side.
But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never master had a more sincere, faithful, and
loving servant than Friday proved to me, without pas-
sion, sullenness, or design, perfectly obliging and en-
gaging; his affections were as much tied to me as
those of a child to his parents; and I might venture to
fay, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving of
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed the
many testimonies he gave me of this very sussiciently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use these
precautions. And here 1 could not but reflect, with
great wonder,that however it has pleased the Almighty
in his providence, and in the government of the crea-
tion, to take from so great a part of the world of his
creatures, the noblest uses to which their faculties,
and the powers of their souls are adapted; yet that
he has bestowed upon them the fame reason, affec-
tions, sentiments of kindness and obligation, passions
of resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capa-
cities of doing and receiving good, that he- has given
us; and that when he is graciously pleased to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper uses
for which they were bestowed, than we often are.
These thoughts would make me very mehncholy,
especially when I considered how mean a use we
make of all these, even though we have our pow-
ers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God, and by
the knowledge of his word, as an addition to our un-
derstanding; and why it has pleased the heavenly
wisdom to conceal the like saving knowledge from so
many millions of fouls, who would certainly make a
much better use of it, than mankind generally do
.at this time. These reflections would sometimes
lead me so far, as to invade the sovereignty of Provi-
'dence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of such an
arbitrary disposition of things, that should obscure that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet ex-
pect a like duty from all. But I closed it up, check-
ing my thoughts with this conclusion ; fir/1, that we.
were ignorant of that right and law by which these
should be condemned; but that, as the Almighty was
necessarily, and by the nature of his essence, infinitely
just and holy, so it could not be otherwise, but that
if these creatures were all destined to absence from
himself, it was on account of finning against that light,
which, as the Scripture fays, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their conscience would acknow-
ledge to be just, though the first foundation was not
discovered to us; and, secondly, that still as we are
the clay in the hand of the potter,' no vessel could
thus fay to him, 'Why hast thou fashioned me after
this manner?
I had not been above two or three days returned
to my castle, but my chief design was how I should
bring Friday osf from, his horrid way of feeding, and
to tike from him that inhuman relish he' by nature
had been accuitomed to; I thought it my duty to let
him taste other flesh, which might the rather tempt
him to the same abhorrence I so often expressed
against their accursed way of 'living. Upon which»
one morning, I took him out with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it
home and dress it; but as I was going, I perceived a
she-goat lying down in-the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. Immediately I catched hold of my mart
Friday; and bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece, and shot one of the kids. My poor-
servant, who had at a distance perceived me kill his
adversary, and yet did not know by what means, or
how it was done, stood trembling and surprised, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at,
or beheld I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat
to fee if he was not wounded, thinking my resolution
was to kill him,; so coming to me, he fell on his
knees, earnestly pronouncing many things which.Ldid
not understand the meaning of, which at length I
perceived was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to see%iim in that
condition where nature is upon the severest trial, when
the immediate hand of death- is ready to put for ever a
period to this mortal life; and indeed so much com-
passion had I for this creature, that it was with dissi-
culty I refrained from*tears. But however as another
fort of countenance was necessary to convince him
that I would do him no harm, I took him smiling
by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing to
the kid which I had slain,' made signs to him to fetch
it, which accordingly he did. No less curious was
he in viewing how the creature was killed, than he
had been before in beholding the Indian; while he
was admiring it I charged my gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a great fowl, like a hawk, perch-
ing upon a tree within shot; and therefore to let Fri-
day understand what I was going to do, I called him
to me again, pointing at the fowl, which I found to be
a parrot. I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade him
look, when immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it far or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greatest a-
ftonishment to one who never had heard of such a
thing in his whole- life; and really his amazement
continued so long, that, had I allowed it, he would
have prostrated himself before me and my gun, with
the greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as suffer his fin-
gers to touch it for several days after, but would come
and communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to ir,
as if the senseless piece had understood and-answered
Him: All this I could perceive him do, when he
thought my back was turned; the chief intent of
which was to desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards
came to understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from those comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; but when his astonishment was a little over,
I made tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot that
I had shot, which he accordingly did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason the bird not be-
ing quite dead, had fluttered some way farther from
the place where he fell. In the mean time, as he'-was
looking for'her, I took the advantage of charging my
gun again, that I might be ready for aaother'mark
that might offer itself; but nothing more occurred at
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening took off the skin, and divided the carcase as
well as I could. Part of this flesh I stewed, and boil-
ed in a pot I had for the purpose; and then spread-
ing my table, I sat down, giving my man some to eat
too, who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to like
it very welL; but what was most surprising to him
was to fee me eat salt with it; upon which he made
me understand that the salt was very bad for me;
when putting a little into his mouth, he seemed to
nauseate it in such a manner as to spit and sputter at
it, and then washed his mouth with fresh water;
but to show him how contrary his opinion was to
mine, I put some meat in my mouth without salt,
and feigned to spit and sputter as much for the want
of it as he had done at it; yet all this proved of no
signification to Friday, and it was a long while be-
fore he could endure salt in his meat or broth, and
even then but a very small quantity.
Thus having fed him sussiciently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was resolved to
feast him with a roasted piece of the kid ; and having
no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use of
that common artifice which many of the people of
England have, that is, to set two poles upon each
side of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat thereon with a string, and so turning round con-
tinually, roast it, as. we read bloody tyrants have
cruelly roasted martyrs. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite another
way to what the barbarous savages were accustomed.
But when he came to taste the sweetness and tender-
ness of the flesh, he expressed his entire satisfaction
above a thousand different ways; and,, as I could
not but understand his meaning, you may be sure I
was wonderfully pleased, especially when he made
f 29
ROBstsSON CRUSOE.
it also very plain to me, that he would never whilst
he lived eat man's flesh more.
Well, now it was high time I should set my ser-
vant to work; so the next day I put him to beat out
some corn, and sift it in the same manner as I had
done before; and really the fellow was very quick
and handy in the execution of any thing I ordered
him to go about. I made him understand that it wag
to make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him
fee me make and bake it: In short, he did every
thing as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could do it myself.
When I considered that I had two mouths to feed
instead of one, I was necessarily obliged to think that,
in consequence thereof, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the same
manner as I had done before; in the execution of
which I must give Friday this good word, that no man
could work more hard or willingly than he did: And
when I made him sensible that it was for bread to
serve him as well as me, he then very passionately
made me understand that he thought I had much
more labour on me on his account than I had for my-
self \ and that no pains or diligence should be want-
ing in him, if I would but direct him in those works
wherein he might succeed.
I must certainly own that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in this island, for aster some time
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of those things which I was wont to call for,
and the places where I used to send him: So that my
long silent tongue, which had been useless so many
years, except in an exclamatory manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied
in teaching and talking to my man Friday; for in-
deed I had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow
robinson crusoe:
121
himself, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned ho-
nesty appear more and more to me every day, that I
really began entirely to love him: And, for his
part, I believe there was no love lost, and that his na-
ture had been more charmed with my exceeding
kindness, and his asfections more placed upon me,
than upon any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen. Once I had a great mind to try if he had
any hankering inclination to return to his own coun-
try again: And by this time, having learned him
English so well that he could give me tolerable answers
to any questions which I demanded, I asked him,
Whether that nation, to which he belonged, ever con-
quered in battle i This question made Friday smile,
and to which he answered, Yes, yes, we al-ways fight
.the better; as much as to fay, they always got the
better in fight. Upon which we proceeded on the
following discourse. You fay, said I, that you al-
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that my nation beat much.
Masier. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many rnans than my nation in
the place where me %vas-; they take one, two, three,
and me: My nation muoh over beat them in the
yonder place, where me no was; there my nation
mans beat one, two, three great toufands.
Master. Then why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies?
, Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo; my nation have no
canoo that time.
Masier. It is very well, Friday: But what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take i Do
they carry them away, and eat them, as these have
done i
F
Friday, Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat up
all.
Mafter. To what place do they carry them to be
.devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Mnfter. Do they* bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place. .: '.r-.
Master. And have you been with them here, Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here ; (pointing to the north-
west of the island, being the side where they used to
land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the cannibals, having been formerly
among the savages who used to come on shore on
the farthest part of the island, upon the same bloody
occasions as he was brought here for: And some time
after I carried him to that place where he pointed;
and no sooner did he come there but he-presently knew
the ground, signifying to me, that he was once there,
when they eat up twenty men, two. women, and a
young child. But as he could not explain the num-
ber in English, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have theirather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and useful for me to
know: For after I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a
little way out to the sea, there was a strong current,
and a wind always one way in the afternoon. This
I thought at first to be no. more, than the sets of the
fide, of going out, or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth
I
ttf gulph of which I imagined my kingdom lay; and
that the land which I perceived to the W. and N. W.
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north of the
river. A thoufand questions (if that would satisfy me)
did I ask Friday about the nature of the country, the
sea, the coasts, the inhabitants, and what nations
Y' were nearest them: To which questions the poor
fellow declared all he knew with the greatest open-
ness and utmost sincerity. When I demanded of him
the particular names of the various nations of his
fort of people, he could only answer me in general
that they were called Caribbee. Hence it was I consi-
dered that these must be the Caribbees, so much taken
notice of by our maps to be on that part of America,
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko
to Guiana, and so on to St. Martha'. Then Friday
proceeded to tell me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, as much as to fay, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, such as I was,, pointing to
my whiskers, and that they had killed much mans.
I was not ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards
treated these creatures; so that I presently concluded
it must be them, whose cruelties had spread through-
out America, to be remembered even to succeeding
generations. .
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information of my man had let me
to, was very comfortable to me, and made me so cu-
rious as to ask him, how I might depart from this
island, and get among those white men? he told me
l~es, yes, I might go in two canoes. In two- canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean? surely he means
one for himself and another for me; and if not, how
must two canoes hold me, without being joined, and
then put one part of my body in one, and the other in
the other; and indeed it was a long while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
large boat as big as two canoes, able to bear with the
waves, and not so liable to be overset as a small one
Would be.
I believe tbere is no state of life but what may be~
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part to
make it so. He is not the happiest man that has the
most riches, but he that is content with what he hath.
Before I had my servant I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now I enjoyed the happy benefits
of him, I still complained, and begged a deliverance
from a place of retirement, ease, and plenty, where
Providence had, sussiciently blessed me: In a word,
from this time I entertained some hopes, that one
time or other I might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this island, and that this poor savage
might be a great furtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent
as to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains
or diligence to instruct him, according-to my poor
share of knowledge, in the principles of religion,
and the adoration that he ought to pay to the true
God. One time, as I very weli remember, I asked
him who made him? At first, the innocent creature
did not understand what I meant, but rather thought
I asked him who was his father? upon which I took
another way to make him sensible, by demanding of
him an answer to this question. Friday (said I), who
is it that made the sea, this ground whereon we walk,
and all these hills and woods which we behold? And
here indeed I did not miss of my intention; for he told
me it was old Bettamuclee, (the God whom I supposed
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for bis attributes, poor Friday was ait
utter stranger to them. He could describe nothing
of this great person; and all that he could say was,
that he was very old, much older than the sea and
land, the moon, or the stars. Friday (said I again),
if this great and old person has made all things in the
world, how comes it to pass, that all things, as yOu
in particular, do not adore and worship him? Upon
this, looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of
innocence, he replied, Masier, all things fay 0 to
him-, by which it may reasonably be supposed he meant
adoration. And where, faid 1, do the people of your
country go when they die? He answered, They all
go to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are
eaten up, do they go there? Said he, Benamuckee love
them dearly; ive pray to Benamuckee in de canoe, and
Benamuckee would love me, when dey eat a me all up.
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and
such made me sensible that the true God is worship-
ped, though under imperfect similitudes; and that the
false adoration which the heathens give to their ima-i
ginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned atheists, falsely so called,
can bring against it: For God will be glorified in his
works, let the denomination be what it will; and 1
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right notion of faith, in a place where the wisdom of
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached; and
therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedience'
is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting by
that light and knowledge which they are possefled
of, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation, though
not that enjoyment with Christ as his saints, confes-
sors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations aside, more fit for
the ablest divines than me to discuss, I began to in-
struct my senfant in the saving knowledge of the
true deity; in which the directions of God's Holy
Spirit assisted me. 1 lifted up my hands to heaven,
and pointing thereto, told him, that the great Maker
of heaven and earth lived there: That as his infinite-
power fashioned this world out of a confused chaos,
and made it in that beautiful frame which we behold,
F3
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
so lie governs and preserves it, by his unbounded
knowledge, sovereign greatness, and peculiar provi-
dence: That he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to us, and take every
thing away fromms: That he was a rewarder and
punisher of good and evil actions: That there was
nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so secret
but he could bring to light: And thus by degrees I
opened his eyes, and described to him the manner of
the creation of the world, the situation of paradise,
the transgressions of cur first parents, the wicked-
ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal sins
and abominations of the whole earth. When these
things were implanted in his mind, I told him that
as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resolved
to destroy this world, till his son Jesus Christ inter-
posed in our behalf, and to procure our redemption,
obtained leave of his heavenly Father to come down,
from heaven into the world, where he took human
nature upon him, instructed us in our way to eter-
nal life, and died as a sacrifice for our sins: That he.
was now ascended into heaven, mediating for our
pardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining alL
those benefits which we asked in his name, by hum-
ble and hearty prayers, which were heard at the
throne of heaven. As very frequently I used to in-
culcate things into his mind, Friday one day told
me, that if our great God could hear us beyond the.
fun, he must then be surely a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way of, and yet
could not hear them,till they ascended thegreat moun-
tains, where he dwelt, to speak to him. What, said \%
Friday, did you go thither to speak to him too? He
answered, No, they never went that were young
men; none but old men, called their Oowckakee,
meaning the Indian priests, who went to fay O (so he*
called saying their prayers), and they returned back,,
and told them what Benamuckee said. From hence i
127
eould not but observe how happy we Christians are,,
who have God's immediate revelation for our certain
guide; and that our faith is neither misted, nor our
reason imposed upon, by any set 0/ men,' such as-
these Indian impostors. - '-
But to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
day, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountains to fay O to their
god Benamuckee, was an imposture; and' that their
bringing back an answer was all a sham, if not
worse; for that, if there was any such thing spoken
to them, surely it must proceed from an infernal-
spirit. And here I thought it necessary to enter in-
to a long discourse with him, which I did after this
manner:
. Friday, (said I) you must know, that before this
world was made, there was one Almighty Power
existing, by whose power all things were made, and
whose majesty shall have no end. To be glorified
and adored by beings of a heavenly nature, he creat-
ed angels and archangels, that is, glorious spirits re-
sembling himself, to encompass his throne, eternal-
ly singing forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds
and divine harmony 1 And among this heavenly
choir, Lucifer bore a great sway, as being then one
of the peculiar favourites of these celestial abodes;
but he, contrary to that duty he owed his heavenly
Sovereign, with unbounded ingratitude to his divine
Creator, not only envied him that adoration which
was his due, but thought to usurp that throne,
which he had neither power to keep, nor title to
pretend to. He raised a distension and civil war in:
heaven, and had a number of angels to take his part.
Unbounded folly, stupendous pride, thus to hope for
victory, and aspire above his powerful Creator! The
deity, not fearful of such an enemy, yet justly pro-
voked at this rebellion, commissions his archangel
Michael to lead forth the heavenly host, and give him.
battle; the advantage of which was quickly perceiv-
ed, by Satan's being overthrown, and the prince of
the air (for so the devil was called) with all his fallen
angels, driven headlong into a dismal place, which is
called hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfac-
tion, by his gestures, that God had sent the devil
into the deep hole. And then I desired him to give
great heed to what I had further to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, yet equal to him in power and glory, Com*
let us make man (said he) in our vu>n imagt, after our
own likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over the
creatures in the world which we have created. And
these he intended should glorify him in heaven, ac-
cording to their obedience in this shte of probation on
earth, which was as it were to be the school to train
them up for those heavenly mansions. Now Satan,
seeing himself foiled, yet that God had not taken
the power from him, as prince of the air, which
power Heaven designed he should retain, whereby his
creatures might be tried; in revenge to the disgrace
he had received, he tempts Adam's wife, Eve, to taste
of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which God
had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape of a
serpent, being then a most beautiful creature, and
tells her, that it was no better than an imposition
which God had put upon her and her husband, not
to eat of that fair fruit which he had created; that
the taste thereof would make them immortal, like
God himself, and consequently as great and power-
ful as he: Upon which she not only e2t thereof her-
self, but made her husband eat also, which brought
them both under the heavenly displeasure.
2
Here Friday expressed a great concern: Ah ! poor
mans! (cried he) naughty nvomans! naughty devil .'
make Gad not love de mans, make mans like devil him-
Friday, (said I) God still loved mankind; and
though the devil tempted human nature so far, he
would not suffer him to have absolute power over
them. I have told you before of his tender love to
his people, till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his com-
mands and rebelled against him; and that even then,
how jesus Christ his only son came to save sinners.
But still every man that lives in the world is under
temptation and trial. The devil has yet a power, as
prince of the air, to suggest evil cogitations into our
minds, and prompt us on to wicked actions, that he
might glory in our destruction: Whatever evil
thoughts we have proceed from him. So that God,
in this our distress, expects that we should apply our-
selves to him by fervent priyerfor speedy redress: He
is not like Benamuckee, to let none come near him but
Oowokakee ; but suffers the people, as well as priests,
to offer themselves at his feet, thereby to be deliver-
ed from the power and temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in his
mind, as it was the divine essence of God : For there
nature assisted me in all my arguments to show to him
plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and over-
ruling governing power, of a secret directing Provi-
dence, and of the equity and reasonableness of pay-
ing adoration to our Creator; whereas there appear-
ed nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit,
of his "first beginning, his nature, and above all, of
his inclination to evil actions, and his power to tempt
us to the like. And indeed this unlearned Indian,
by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with one
particular question, more than ever I could have ex--
pected.
I had, it seems, one day been talking to him of
the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite ab-
horrence of sin, insomuch that the Scriptures styled
him a consuming fire to all the workers of iniquity;
and that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to
destroy all the world in a moment, the greater part
of which are continually osfending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a-
freat while to what I said, after I had been telling
im, how the devil was God's enemy in the heart*
of all men, and used all his malice and stall to defeat
the good designs of Providence, and to destroy the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and so forth: Very-
well, Master (said Friday), you say, God is so strong,,
so great, is he not much stronger, much mightier than
the naughty devil I To be sure, Friday, said I, God.
is more wife and stronger than the serpent: He is
above the devil, which makes us pray to him, that
he would tread down Satan under our feet, enable us
to resist his violent temptations, and quench his fiery
dart?. Why then, (answered Friday quickly) is God, as-
you say, has much Jlrong, much might as the devil, why
Cod no kill devil, make no more tempt, no more do wicked?
You may be certain 1 was strangely surprised at this
question of my man's; and though an old man, I was
but a young doctor, and consequently very ill qualified,
for a casuist or a resolver of intricate doubts in reli-
gion. And as it required some time for me to study
for an answer, I pretended not to hear him, nor tov
ask him what he said: But so earnest was he for an
answer, as. not to forget the question, which he re-
feated in the very fame broken words as above. When
had recovered myself a little, Friday, (said I) God.will
mt last punish him severely, being reserved for judgments
and is to be cal into the bottomless pit,, to remain in firt
everlasting. But all this did not satisfy Friday, for re-
turning upon me, he repeated my words, Reserve at
lofty me no under/land; tut why net kill devil
mt hill devil great, great.while ago? Friday, (said 1}
you may as well ask me why God does not kill you
and me, when by our wicked actions we so much
osfend his divine Majesty; He gives us time to re-
pent of our sins, that thereby we may obtain pardon.
At these words, obtain pardon, Friday mused a great
while, and at last, looking me stedsastly in the face:
Well, well, (said he) that's very well; Jo you, I, devil,
all wicked mans, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity, .
when it became very evident to me, how mere natural
notions will guide reasonable creatures to the know-
ledge of a deity, and to the homage due to the su-
preme being of a God; but however nothing but di-
vine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of
the Mediator of the new covenant, and of an inter-
cessor at the footstool of God's throne; and there-
fore the gospel, of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christy
that is, the word and spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctisier of his people, are the most ne-
cessary instructors of the fouls of men, in the sav-
ing knowledge of the Almighty, and the means to
attain eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my man and me, for which purpose
I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some occasion
to go out, sending Friday for something that was a-
good way off. I then fell on my knees, and beseech-
ed God that he would inspire me so far, as to guide
this poor savage in the knowledge of Christ, to answer
his questions more clearly, that his conscience might
be convinced, his,eyes opened, and his foul saved*
When he returned again, I entered into a very long
discourse with him,upon the subject of the world's re-
demption by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of re-
pentance preache;! from heaven,together with anholy.
faith in our blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ: And then
h gr-oeeeded to explain to him, according to my weak,
capacity, the reason why our Saviour took not oft
him the nature of angels, but rather the feed of A-
braham ; and how upon that account the fallen an-
gels had no benefit by the redemption; and lastly,
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like. God knows, I had more sin-
cerity than knowledge in all the ways I took for this
poor Indian's instruction; and I must acknowledge,
that I believe every body that acts upon the fame
principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths
open before him, I informed and instructed myself
in many things, that either I did not know, or had
not perfectly considered of before. But as I search-
ed into them for the information of this poor savage,
so they naturally occurred to my mind; and my in-
quiry after many things was more asfectionate than
ever I felt in my life: So that however this poor
Creature might be improved by my instruction, cer-
tain it is, that upon this account I had great reason-
to bless kind Providence for sending him to me. His
company allayed my grief, and made my habitation
more comfortable: And when I reflected that this
solitary life, to which I had been so long confined,
had not only moved me to look towards heaven, but
made me the instrument, under Providence, to save
the life, and for aught I knew, the soul of a poor sa-
vage, by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus
Christ; this caused a secret joy to spread through e-
very part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that
ever I was brought to this place, which I once
thought to be the most miserable part of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards con-
tinue while I abode on the island; and for three
years did my man and I live in the greatest enjoy-
ment and happiness, by our conversation one with
another.' And indeed I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as I; and I hope we were equally
penitent 5 and such penitents that were comforted
and restored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we
had the word of the Lord to instruct us in the right
way, and we were no farther off the assistance of the
Holy Ghost, than if we had been on the English shore.
By the constant applications I made of the Scriptures,
fts I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly endea-
voured to make him understand every part of them,
as much as lay in my power. He also, on the other
hand, by his 'very serious questions and inquiries,
made me a much better proficient in Scripture know-
ledge than I should have been by my own private
reading and study. I must not omit another thing
proceeding from the experience I had in. my retire-
ment ; it was, that infinite and inexpressible blessing,
the knowledge of God through Christ Jesus, which
was so plain arid easy to be understood, as immedi-
ately to direct me to carry on the great work of sin-
cere repentance for my fins, and laying hold of a Sa-
viour for eternal life, to a practical stated reforma-
tion, and obedience to all God's institutions, without
the assistance of a reverend and orthodox divine; and
especially by this fame instruction, so to enlighten
this savage creature' as to make him such a good
Christian as very few could exceed him; and there
was only this great thing wanting, that I had no au-
thority to administer the holy sacrament, that heaven-
ly participation of Christ's body and blood; yet, how-
ever, we rested ourselves content that God would ac-
cept our desires, and, according to our faith, have
mercy on us.
But what we wanted one way was.made up in ano-'
ther, and that was universal peace in our little church.
We had no disputes nor wranglings about the nature
and quality of the holy, blessed, and undivided Tri-
nity; no niceties in doctrine, or schemes of church-
government; no four and morose dissenters to impose
snore sublimated notions upon us, nor pedant fophiC.
ters, to confound us with Unintelligible mysteries: But
instead of all this, we enjoyed the most certain guide
to heaven, that is, the word of God j besides which
»34
ROBINSOS CRUSOE.
we had the comfortable views of his Spirit lead'mg-
us into the truth, and making us both willing and,
obedient to the instruction of his word. And as Ac-
knowledge and practice of this are the principal
means of salvation, I cannot see what it avails any
Christian church or man in the world, to amuse
themselves with every indifferent speculation and opi-
nion, except those who have a mind to display their
particular vanity and affectation.
You may well suppose that, by the frequent dis-
courses we had together, my man and I became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very,
little that I could fay, but Friday understood, speaking
very fluently, though indeed it was but broken Eng-
lish. And really I now took a particular pleasure in.
relating all my adventures, especially those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this island. I made
him understand that wonderful mystery, as he con-
ceived,, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how*
to shoot: I also presented him a knife, which pleas-
ed him exceedingly; making him a belt with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear hang-
ers in England; and instead of a hanger to put in.
that frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only,
as good, but even a better weapon upon any occasion..
In a word, my man thus accoutred, looked upon him-
self as great as Don Quixote, when that celebrated
champion went to combat the windmill.
After all this, I gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of the territories of Europe, and in a particular
manner of Old England, the place of my nativity. I
laid before him the manner of our worshipping God,
our behaviour to one another, and how we traded in.
ships to every part of the universe. 1 then told him.
my misfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him,,
as near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which-
bad been long gone before. I brought him to the.
ruins of my boat, which before my whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten and fal-
len to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view thi*
boat with an uncommon curiosity, which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while and said
nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes you
ponder so much? he replied, O Master, me see like
boat come to place at my nation.
I was some time indeed before I understood what
my man meant; but examining farther into it I
plainly found such another boat,, resembling that^had
come to the country where he dwelt;. as much as to
fay, by his farther explanation, that the boat was.
driven there through violent storms and stress of wea-
ther. It presently came into my mind, that some Eu-
ropean ship Living been cast away, the poor distress-
ed creatures were forced to have recourse to the boat
to save their lives; and being all, as I thought, drown-
ed, I never concerned myself to afle any thing about
them, but my only inquiry was about the boat, and*
what description my man could give of it.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,,
making every thing very plain to my understanding;
but especially I was satisfied when he told me, with
a great warmth and ardour, 0 Master, rue save white
mansfrom drown: Upon which I immediately asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat ? Yes, yes, (said he) the boat full, very
full, .white mans. How many, Friday? said I. Here-
upon he numbered his fingers and counted seventeen.
And when I afleed him what became of them all, and
whether they lived or not? he replied, Yes, Master,
they all live, they be live 'mong my nation. This plainer
information put new thoughts into my head, that
these must be those very men, which before I con-
cluded had; been swallowed up in the-ocean after they,
had left their ship, that had struck upon the rocks o£
my kingdom; and after escaping the fury of the
deep, landed upon the wild shore, and committed
themselves to the fury of those devouring Indian^.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which, consequently, as I thought, must be acted with
greater barbarity to strangers, created a great anxiety
within me, and made me still more curious to ask
Friday concerning them: He told me, he was sure
they lived still there, having resided among them a-
bove sour years, and the favages gave them victuals
to live upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence pro-
ceeded all this good nature and generosity? How came
it to pass th.-.t they did not kill and eat them to please
their devouring appetites, and occasion so splendid an
entertainment among them? ATc, no, (said Friday) they
not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em; by which I
understood there was a truce between them- And
then I had a more favourable opinion of the Indians,
upon Friday's uttering these words ; My nation, father
nation, no eat mans, but when mans make war fight;
as though he had said, that neither those of his king-
dom nor any other nation that he knew of, ever eat
their fellow-creatures, but such whom their law of
arms allowed to be devoured; and they were thole
miserable captives, whose great misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
uporj the top of a hill, on the east side of the island,
whence I had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not tell immediately what wa3
the matter, for suddenly Friday fell a-jumping and
dancing as if he had been mad; and upon my de-
manding the reason of his behaviour, 0 joy ! (said he)
O glad! There fee my country, there my nation, there live
white mans all gether. And indeed such a rapturous
fense of pleasure appeared in his countenance, that
his eyes had an uncommon sparkling and brightness,
and such a strange eagerness, as if he had a longing
desire to be in his own country again; and this new
observation which I had, made me not so well satis-
•37
fiect with my man Friday as before; for by this ap-
pearance I made no dispute, but that if he could get
back thither again, he would not only be unmindful
of what religion I had taught him, but likewise of the
great obligation that he owed me for his wonder-
ful deliverance : Nay, that he would not only inform
his countrymen of me, but accompany hundreds of
them to my kingdom, and make me a miserable'facri-
'-fke^like those unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these cruel
and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I wronged
the poor creature very much, who was quite of a con-
trary temper; and had he that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have, he would have perceived'
my coldness and indifference, and also have been very
much concerned upon this account: For as I was now
more circumspect, I had much lessened my kindness
and familiarity with him ; and while this jealousy con-
tinued, i used that artful way (now too much ia fa-
shion to occasion strife and dissension) of pumping him
daily, thereby to discover whether he was deceitful in
his thoughts and inclinations: But certainly he had
nothing in him but what was consistent with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and grateful
friend; and indeed I found every thing he said was
so ingenuous and innocent,that I had no room for sus-
picion, and in spite of all uneasiness, he not only mad«
me entirely his own again, but also caused me much
to lament that I ever conceived one ill thought of him.
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather being so hazy at sea that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, smong your old friends and acquaintance?
7~es, (said he) me much (J glad to be at mytwn nation.
\ And what would you do there, Friday ? (said 1) would
you turn wild again,! eat man's flesh, and be a savage
as you was formerly? No, no, (answered he, full of
'3«
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
concern, tand shaking his head), Friday new tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-fleflj, milk, no eat man again. But surely,,
(replied I) is you should osfer to do all this, they will
kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such in-
struction, may eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, No, they no kill me, they "willing love
learn; that is, that they would be very willing to learn v
adding withal, that they had learn much of the bearded
mans that come in the boat. Will you go back again
Friday? said 1. He smiled at that, and told me that
he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will make a
canoe for you ; Yes Mqfler, (said he) me go if yau go i
me no go if youfay. Friday ! (said I) why would you
have them eat me up, and devour your kind master?
No, no, (said he) me make they no eat mafler, me makt
they much love you; that is, he would tell them how
I had slain his enemies, and thereby saved Jiis life,
for which reason he would make them love me ; and
then he related to me, as well as he was able, how
exceeding kind those os his nation were to the white,
or bearded men as he called them, who, in their
great calamity, were driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts, if
possible, to join these white bearded men, who un-
doubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese; for (thought
I) it must be certainly a better and safer way to escape
when there is good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles off the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Friday and I being
at work as usual, at the same time diverting ourselves
with various discourses, I told him I had a boat which
I would bestow upon him, whenever he pleased to re-
turn to his own nation; and to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the other
fide of the island where my frigate lay, and then tak-
ing it from under the water (for I always kept it
funk for fear of a discovery), we both went into it,
to fee how it would manage such an expedition.
Really never could any be more dexterous in rowing
than my faithful servant, making the boat go as fait
again as I could. 'Well now, Friday (said 1), shall'
we go to your so much desired nation ?, But instead
of meeting with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying so;
which indeed at first surprised me, till he made me
sensible that his-concern was about the boat's being
too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which I let
him understand I had a much bigger; and according-
ly the next day, went to the place where the first boat
lay which I had made, when all the strength I had,
or art I could use, failed me in my attempt to get it
into the water; but now, it having lain in the sun,
two-and-twenty years, and no care being taken of it
all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man told me, that such a boat would do very well
for the purpose; sussicient to carry enough vittle%
dring, bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, I very plain-
ly told him that we would both go and make a boat
full as big, and more proportionable than that,
wherein he might safely return to his own nation.
These words I observed made Friday look so very
pensive, that I thought he would have fallen at my feet.
It was some time before he could speak a word, which
made me ask him what was the matter with him? He
replied, in a very soft and moving tone, What has,
poor Friday done? Why are you angry mad with, poor
servant? What me done, 0 what me done? Friday, said
I, you never yet have offended me, what makes you
think I am angry with you, when lam not angry at all?
You no angry no angry, (laid he several times)//'you be no,
angry, -why den send Friday over great water to my owri
i
ROBINSON CRU*OB.
nation? Why surely, Friday, (answered I) did not you
wish to be there, when from a mountain you beheld
the place where you was born ? and is it not to satisfy
your desires that I am willing to give you leave to re-
turn thither? Yes, yes,(saidFriday) me wish be theresure
'nough, tut me den wi/h majler there too-, no wish Friday
there, no master there. In short he cou-ld not endure the
thoughts of going there without me. I go there, Fri-
day ! (said I) what shall I do there ?—He answered
very quietly, 0 master, you do great deal much goody
you teach all de wild mans to be good tame mans, you
learn them to be sober, live good life, to know God, and
pray God. Alas! poor Friday, (said I) what can I do a-
gainst their priestsofBenamuckee,or indeed, what good
can I make your nation sensible of, when I myself am
but a poor ignorant man ? No, no, master, (said he) you
be no ignorant, you teachee me good, you teachee them good.
You shall go without me Friday, (said I) for I do not
care to accompany you thither ; I would rather live in
this solitude, than to venture among such inhuman
savages. Go your way, since you desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck than
Friday was at these words, Go me away, leave master
away! said he, after a long silence. No, no, Friday
die, Friday not live master gone! as though he had
said, I neither can nor will live if my master sends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship, which many times surpass
those of consanguinity; for often we find a great
disagreement among kindred; and when there is any
seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
and scarce ever lasting, if powerful interest does not
bear the sway; and that alone is often the occasion
of the greatest hatred in the world; which is to de-
sire the death of parents and relations, for the fake
of enjoying their fortunes: But here was no such
thing between my servant and me ; instead of which
there was nothing but gratitude, and the sincerest
Jove : He found me not only his deliverer, but his pre-
server and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and asfable friend: He wanted for
no manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or
out of order, I was his physician, not only for hia
body, but his foul; and therefore no wonder was it that
such an innocent creature long since divested of his
former natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
concern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even to die rather than live without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all imaginr
able confusion, when immediately running to one of
his hatchets which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand with a heart so
full that he could scarce speak. Friday, (said I) what
is it you mean ? What must I do with this? Only kill
Friday, (said he) Friday no care live long. But what
must I kill you for ? replied I again. Ah! dear Master,
what make you Friday save from eat a me up, so keep long
Friday, make Friday love God, and not love Benamurkee;
and now Friday send away, never see Friday more! As
though the poor creature had said, Alas! my dearest,
kindest master,' how comes it to pass that after having
.Ventured your precious life to save me from the jaws
of devouring cannibals, like myself; aftersuch a tender
regard to provide for me such comfortable nourish-
ment, and continuing so long a kind master, and most
sincere friend; and after making me forsake the false
notion t>f an Indian deity,and worship the true God in
spirit and in truth; after all this, I fay, how comes it
now that you are willing to fend me away to my for-
mer course of living, by which means undoubtedly we
shall be dead to each other ; but greater must be my
misfortune, that I shall never behold the best friend I
tiavc in this world any more! And this certainly, though
he could not express himself so sully, must be his fen*
timents; for the tears ran down his cheeks in such a
. plentiful manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
weeping also, when I beheld the poor creature's affec-
tion ; so that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner, which I did by telling him, if he was content
to abide with me, I should be ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
sully to convince me of his affection, he said, 0 Mas-
ter, me not care be in my nation, leave you here; me defire
my nation learn good, that all; meaning that his desire
was for the conversion of that barbarous people. But
as I had no apostolic mission, nor any concern about
their salvation, so I had neither the least intention
or defire of undertaking it: and the strength of my
inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly from
my late discourse with Friday about those seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon the
barbarian coast, whom I designed to join with, as a
surer means to further our escape. To which intent
my man and I went to search for a proper tree to fell,
whereof we might make a large periagua, or canoe,
to undertake the voyage : And indeed we needed not
be long in finding one fit for our purpose, there be-
ing wood enough in the island to have built a fleet
of large vessels; but the thing we principally wanted
was, to get one so near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit so
horrid a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgment in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitched upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. To this day I
cannot tell the name of the tree I cut it from, nor
describe it any other way, than only by faying,- that it
is very like what we call fustic, or betwixt that and
the Nicaragua wood, being much of the fame colour
and smell. But though my man exceeded me in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed
him a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe
than ever he knew before; for he was for burning
the hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat { but I then told him how we might do it with
tools, learning, him at the fame time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that in a
month's labour we finished it, making it very hand-
some by cutting the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this it took us full a fortnight before
we could get her into the water, which we did as it
were inch by inch, upon great rollers: But when she
was in, she would have carried twenty men with all
the ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased you may be sure at the
launching of this man of war of mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. Well,
Friday, (said I) what do you think of it now ? Do you
think this will carry us over? Tes,Master, (said he) me
venture over well, though great blotu wind. But my de-
sign was yet /arther, which he was insensible of, and
that was to make a mast and fail, and to provide her
with an. anchor and cable. As for a mast, that was
no difficult thing at all to procure; so I fixed upon a
straight young cedar tree, which I found near the
place, there abounding great plenty of it in the island;
and setting Friday to cut it down, I gave Turn parti-
cular directions how to shape and order it: But as to
the fail I managed it myself. I very well knew I had
some old ones, or pieces of fails enough, which had
lain six-and-twenty years by me; but not being
careful to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more, when I came to
look over them, I found them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pains, and aukward tedious stitching,
for want of needles, I finished at length a three
coineied ugly thing, like that we call in England a
shcu der of mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot_
torn, and a little small sprit at the top, like those
which our long-boata use, and which I very well
knew how to manage, especially since it was like
that which I had in my patron's fishing-boat, when
with my boy Xury I made my escape from the Bar-
bary shore.
It wa6 near two months, I think, before I completed
this work, that is, the rigging and sitting my malt and
fails ; and indeed they were nicely done, having made
a small stay, and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to the westward; .and, which was still
more, I'fixed a rudder to the stern of her, to steerwith;
and though I was but a very indisferent shipwright,
yet, as I was sensible of the great usefulness and ab-
solute necessity of a thing like this, I applied myself
to it with such constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design ; but what with the many dull
contrivances I had about it, and the failure os many
things, it cost me as much pains in ordering as in
making the boat. Besides, when all this was done, I
had my man Friday to teach what belonged to its na-
vigation; for though he very well understood how to
paddle a canoe along, yet he was an utter llranger to
a fail, and a rudder, and was amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by them, and
how the fail gibbed and filled, this way or that way,
as the course we sailed changed. After some time,
and a little use, I made all these things very familiar
to him, so that he became an expert sailor, except
in relation to the compass; and that I could make
him understand but very little of. But as it happened
there was seldom occasion for it, there being but lit-
tle cloudy weather, and scarce ever any fog in those
parts ; the stars were always visible in the night, and
the shore perspicuous by day, except in the rainy sea-
son, which confined every one to his habitation.
Thus entered in the seven-and-twentieth year of
my reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last three
of which, blessed with the company of my man Frl-
day, ought not to be reckoned,) I kept the anniversary
of my landing here, with the same thankfulness to
God, for his tender mercies, as I did before; and
certainly, as I had great cause for a thankful ac-
knowledgement for my deliverance at first, I had
much greater now, forsuch singular and additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, in all my
distresses, both of body and mind, and the great hopes
I had of being esfectually and speedily delivered; for
I had a strong impression upon my mind, that I should
not be another year in this island: But however I still
continued on with my husbandry, digging, planting,
and fencing as usual, gathering and-curing my grapes,
and doing all other things that were necessary. '«».
And now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep longer within doors; but before'
this I brought my new vessel into the creek, where
I had landed my rafts from the ship, and hauling
her up to the more, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sussicient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep up the water; by which
means she lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and
to keep the rain from her, we thatched her over, as
it were,' with boughs of trees, like a house; and so
waited for the months of November and December, in
which I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated by this new designed
adventure, that I daily prepared for the voyage. The
first thing I thought of was to lay by a certain quan-
tity of provisions, as a sussicient store for such an ex-
pedition, intending in a week or fortnight's time to
open the dock and launch out the boat for that pur-
pose. But one morning, as I was very busy upon
something necessary for this occasion, I called Friday
to me, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see is he
G
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we
commonly had once a-week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for the fake of the flesh. He had not
been long gone, but he came running back, as though
he was pursued for life, and, as it were, flew over my
outward wall or fence, like one that felt not the
ground or steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to inquire the reason of his precipitation, he
cries out, O Master! 0 dear Master! O sorrow, sor-
row! bad! 0 bad! Why, what is the matter, Fri-
day? said I. V yonder, yonder, (said he) there be one,
two, three canoes I two, three! Surely (thought I)
there must be fix, by my man's way of reckoning:
bi^'on a stricter inquiry, I found there were but three.
Well, Friday,(said I)do not be terrified, I warrant you
we will not only defend ourselves against them, but
kill the most of those cruel savages. But though I com-
forted him in the best manner I could, the poor crea-
ture trembled, so that I scarce knew what to do with
him: 0 master, (said he) they come look Friday, cut
pieces Friday, eat a me up. Why, Friday, (said I)
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great as yours: But since it is so, we must resolve
to fight for our lives: What fay you? can you fight,
Friday? Yes, (said he, very faintly) me shoot, me kill
what I can, but there come great many number. That is
no matter, '(said I again) our guns will terrify those
that we do not kill: I am very willing to stand by you
till the last drop of my blood; now tell me, if you will
do the like by me, and obey my orders in whatsoever.
I command? Friday then answered, 0 Master, me lose
life fer you, me die when you bid die. Thus conclud-
ing all questions concerning his fidelity, immediately
I fetched a good dram of rum, (of which I had
been a very good husband) and gave it him to com-
fort his' heart. After he.had drank it, I ordered him
to take the two fowling-pieces which we always car-
ried, and load them with large swan shot as big as
2
small pistol bullet3; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets
each, charging my two pistols each with a brace. I
hung my great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excellent
weapon of defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself as any
knight-errant that ever handled a sword and spear. I
took my perspective glass, and went up the fide of the
hill, to fee what I could discover; and 1 perceived
very soon,by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon the three poor human bodies, a thing which
by thi| time I had observed was very common with
them. From hence I also remarked, that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came very close to the iea. And
then it was my foul was filled with indignation and
abhorrence of such inhuman wretches, that put a pe-
riod to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before. But descend-
ing from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and
kill them all; alking him again in the same breath if
lie would stand by me? When by this time being re-
covered from his fright, and his spirits much cheered
with the dl'am I had given him, he was very pleasant,"
yet seriously telling me, as he did before, " when I
bid die, he would die."
And now it was, that having fixed my resolution ,
in so strong a manner, that nothing could divelt my
breast from its uncommon fury, I immediately divided
the arms, already charged, between us. To my man
Friday I gave a pistol to stick in his girdle, with three
guns upon his shoulder, a weight two great I confess*
'148
R03INS0N CRUSOE.
to bear 4 but what must a poor king do who had but
one soldier in the world? But to iiiow I made him
bear no more than what I would lay on myself, I stuck
the other pistol in my girdle, and the three guns up-
on my moulders, nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's burden, a small bottle of rum, which
soon was lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of ar-
mour, yet like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battle, when
the pieces were discharged. And now my orders be-
ing to be obeyed, I charged Friday to keep close behind
me, and not to stir, or shoot, or attempt any thing till
I commanded him, and in the interim, not to speak
ib much as one word. It was in this order I fetched
a compass to the right hand, of near a mile, with a
view to get over the creek within shot of them be-
sore I could be discerned, which I found by my glass
would not be dissicult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of man,
even in our greatest fury and strongest inclination!
For while I was taking this march, my resolutions be-
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches; but these
reflections occurred to my thoughts, as what power
was I commissioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people who had neither done nor intended
to do me any wrong; they were innocent in particular
as to me; and their barbarous custom waS not only
their misfortune, but a sign that God had left them in
the most immense stupidity; but yet did not warrant
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his righteous judgments; that on the con-
trary, whenever he thought sit, he would take ven-
geance on them himself, and punish them in a national
way, according to' their national crimes; but this was
nothing at all to me, who had no concern with them.
Indeed myTSarrTTm-s--j^tilftjsyhhnself/because
they were his declared enemies, otmar iu; <^tro^_
tion that went to sacrifice him before; and indeed it
was lawful for him to attack them, which I could not
fay was so in respect to me. So warmly did these
things press upon my thoughts all the way I went,
that I only resolved to place myself so as to behold
their bloody entertainment, without falling upon
them, except something more than ordinary, by God's
special direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered into the
thick wood (my man Friday following me close be-
hind), when, with all possible wariness and silence, I
marched till I came to the skirt of it, on that side
which was the nearest to them; for only that one end
of the wood interposed between me and them. Upon
which I called very softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, that was just at the corner of the wood,
I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me word
if he could plainly perceive their actions; according-
ly, he did as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about their
fire, eating the flefli of one of their prisoners; and
that another Jay bound upon the sand, a little distant
from them, which they designed to be their next sa-
crifice; and this, he told me, was not one oftheif
nation, but one of those very bearded men, who were
driven by a stcrm into their country, and whom he
had so often talked to me about. Yon may be sure,
that upon hearing this my foul was ready to sink with-
in me; when ascending up into a tree, I faw plainly
by my glass, a white nian, who lay upon the beach of
the sea, with his hands and feet tied with slags, or
things resembling rushes, being covered with clothes,
and seemed to be a European. From the -tree where
I took this prospect, I perceived another tree, and a-
thicket beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to them
than where I was, which, by taking a small circle.
G 3
round, I might come at unH^rT*r',ma!
~.;sv;- »—« » mot of these devourers. And
ib consideration alone, to be more perfectly reveng-
ed upon them, made me withhold my passion, though
I was enraged to the highest degree imaginable, when
going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the o-
ther tree; and then I ascended a little rising ground,
rot above eighteen yards distance from them, and
there I had a full view of these creatures, and I could
perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me not to
lose a moment's time. There were no less than nine-
teen cf these dreadful wretches set upon the ground,
close huddled together, expressing all the delight ima-
ginable at so barbarous an entertainment; and they
had just sent the other two to murder this poor un-
happy Christian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb
to their sire; for they were just then going to untie
the bands from his feet, in order for death, as fetters
are knocked off from the feet of malefactors before
they go to the place of execution. Hereupon, imme-
diately turning to my man, Now, Friday, (said 1) mind
what I say, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you fee
me do. All which he promising he would perform,
I set down one of my muskets and the fowling-piece
upon the ground, and Friday did the fame by his;
and with the other mullcet I took my aim at the sa-
vages, bidding him do the like : Are you ready ? said
I. Yes, Master, said he. Why then fire at them, said
I; and that very moment I gave fire likewise.
For my part, I killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they were
in a dreadful consternation at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who yet had escaped our penetrat-
ing shot, immediately jumped upon their feet, but
were in such confusion, that they knew not which way
to run or look, not knowing from whence their de-
struction came. We then threw down our pieces and
took up others, giving a second dreadful volley; but
as they were loaded only with swan shot, or small pis-
tol bullets, we perceived only two of them fall; but
so many were wounded, that they run yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
(said I) lay down your piece and take up the mulket,
and follow me. He did so, with great courage, when
showing ourselves to the savages, wegavea great shout,
and made directly to the poor victim, who would
have been sacrificed, had not our first fire obliged
the butchers, with three others, to jump into a canoe.
By my order, Friday fired atthem,at which shot I thought
he killed them all, by reason of their falling to the bot-
tom of the boat; however he killed two, and mortally
wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the slags
that tied the hands and feet of the poor creature, and
lifting him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue,
what he was ? He answered me in Latin, Chrislianus t
'but so very weak and faint that he could scarce stand
or speak. Immediately I gave him a dram and a piece
of bread to cherish him, and alked- him what coun-
tryman he was? He said Espaniola, and then uttered
all the thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Seignior (said I, with as much Spanish as I was master
of), let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here take
this sword and pistol, and do what you can. And in-
deed he did so with such courage and intrepidity, that
he cut two of them to pieces in an instant (the sa-
vages not having the power to fly for theif lives). I
ordered Friday to run for those pieces we had left at
the tree, which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could be expected,
having twice wounded his enemy in the head, yet
G4
I
being saint, the Indian had thrown him upon the
ground, and was wresting my sword out os his hand,
which the Spaniard very wisely quitting drew out his
pistol, and snot him through the body, before I could
come near him, though I was running to his assistance.
As to Friday, he pursued the flying wretches with his
hatchet, dispatching three; but the rest were too nim-
ble for him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-
pisces, wounded two, who running into the wood,
Friday pursued and killed one; but the other, not-
withstanding his wounds, plunged himself into the
sea and swam to those two who were left in the ca-
noe, which, with one wounded, were all that escaped
out of one-and-twenty. The account is as follows:
Killed at the first shot 1
from the tree j'
Jt the second shot 2
By Friday in the boat 2
Ditto, of those first) %
wounded 5
Ditto, in the .wood l
By the Spaniard 3
Killed, or died of
their wounds 4
Escaped in the boat,~)
whereof one wound- > 4
ed, if not slain. J
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuing
them; and indeed I was no less anxious about their
escape, lest, after the news had been carried to their
people, they should return in multitudes, and destroy
us. So being resolved to pursue them, I jumped into
one of their canoes, and bid Friday to follow me ; but
no sooner was I in, when to my surprise I found
another poor creature, bound hand and foot for the
slaughter, just as the Spaniard had been, with very
little life in him. Immediately I unbound him, and.
would have helped him up, but he could neither stand
nor speak, but groaned piteously, thinking he was on-
ly unbound in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid Fri-
day speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance;
when pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch
drink a dram; which, with the joyful news he had
received, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the
boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,.
and looked more fully in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon
transports of joy; for he kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,,
danced, fung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his face and head, then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature;, so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to me, or
tell me what was the matter with him; but when he
came to the liberty os his speech, at last.he told me,
it was his father.;
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee the du-
tiful and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the boat,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to
his bosom half an hour together to nourish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were stiff and
numbed with binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands; by which means, perceiving what
the cafe was, I gave him some rum, which proved of
great benefit to him. . r>
While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight, and happy it was we
did not pursue them ; for there arose from the north-
west, which continued all night long, such a violent
storm, that I could not suppose otherwise but that
they were all drowned. After this I called Friday to
me, and asked him if he had given his father any
bread i He shook his head, and laid, None, not one bit,
me eat a up all; so I gave him a cake ot bread out of
a little pouch I carried for this end. I likewise gave
him a dram for himself, and two or three bunches of.
raisins for his father. Both those he carried to him*,
for he would make him urink the drain to comiort
him. Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was^
bewitched, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; but at
his return I perceived him slacken his pace, because
he had something in his hand; and this I found to
be, as he approached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water to his father and two more cakes of bread,
which he delivered into my hands. Being very thirsty
myself, I drank some of the water, of which, when
his father had drank sussiciently, it more revived his
spirits than all the rum I had given him.
'I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to car-
ry the Spaniard one of the cakes and some water,
who was reposing himself upon a green place, under
the shade of a tree, but so weak, that though he ex-
erted himself, he could not stand upon his feet; up-
on which I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his ankles
with rum as he did his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast a wishful eye to-
wards the boat where he left his father sitting; who
suddenly disappearing, he flew like lightning to him;
and finding he only laid himself down to ease his
limbs, he returned back to me presently ; and then I
spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him, and
lead him to the boat, in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him: Upon
which Friday made nothing to take him upon his
back, and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father ; and presently stepping out again,
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew very
hard too; and having brought them safe to the creek,
away he runs to fetch the other canoe, which he
brought to the creek almost as soon as I got to it by-
land ; when wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat. But so weak were they, that I was
forced to make a kind os hand-barrow ; and when I
came to my castle, not being willing to make an en-
trance into my wall, we made them a handsome ten^
covered with old fails and boughs of trees, making
two good beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie up-
on and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I thought
myself very great, especially considering I had three
religions in my kingdom, my man Friday being a
Protestant, his father a Pagan, and the Spaniard a
Papist; but I gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I or-
dered Friday to kill me a yearling goat, which when
he had done, I cut osf the hinder quarters and chop-
ping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it, putting
barley and rice into the broth. This I carried into
their tent, set a table, dined with them myself, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke
the language of the savages pretty well. After din-
ner I ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from
the field of battle, and the next day to bury the dead
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday inquire of his father,
whether he thought those savages had escaped the
late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether they
would not return with a power too great for us to re-
sist? He answered, that he thought it impossible they
should outlive the storm; or.if they were driven south-
wardly, they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were drowned in
the sea; and suppose they had attained their own
country, the strangeness of their bloody and fatal at-
tack, would make them tell their people, that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning, not by
the hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits (mean-
ing Friday and me), who were sent from above to de-
stroy them: And this he said he knew, because he
heard them say the same to one another. And indeed
he was in the right on it; for I have heard since, that
these four men gave out, that whoever went to tha t en-
chanted island, would bedestroyed byfirefromthegods.
Gd
No canoes appearing some time after, as I expected,
my a| prehensions ceakd; instead of which my for-
mer thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday's father assured me I should have good usage
in his country. As to the Spaniard, he told me, that
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who
had been shi| wrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions and
other necessaries. When I had asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered, that their ship
was bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havannah:
that when the ship was lost only five men perished in
the ocean* the rest, having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent. And
what do they intend to do there? said I. He repli-
ed, they had concerted measures to escape by build-
ing them a vessel, but they had neither tools nor pro-
visions; so that all their designs came to nothing.
Supposing, (said 1) I should make them a proposal,
and invite them here, would they not carry me pri-
soner to New Spain? He answered, No, for he knew
them to be such honest men as would scorn to act-
such inhuman baseness to their deliverer: That, if I
pleased he and the old savage would go over to them,
talk with them about it, and bring me an answer j
that they should all swear fidelity to me as their leader,
upon the holy sacraments; and that, for his part, he
.would not only do the fame, but stand by me to the
last drop of his blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, andtosend these two over for that purpose:
Bur when every thing was ready, the Spaniard raised
an objection which carried a great deal of weight in
it. You know Sir, (said he) that beingsome time with you%
1 cannot but be sensible of your flock of rice and corn, suf-
ficient perhaps for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently; much less to victual a ve/Jelfer
an intended voyage. Want might be as great an ceca-
Jton for them to disagree and rebel as the children of Isra-
el did again/I God himself when they wanted bread in
the wilderness : And therefore my advice is to wait ano-
ther harvest, and, in the mean time, cultivate and im-
prove some more land, whereby we may have plenty of pro-
visions, in order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard I approved of extreme-
ly; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that I esteemed
him ever after. And thus we all four went to work
upon some more land, and against seed-time we had
got so much cured and trimmed up, as was sussicient
to sow twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen
jars of rice, which was in short all the seed we had
to spare. As we were four in number,and by this time
all in good health, we feared not an hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us : And while the corn
was growing, I pitched upon some trees fit to build
us a large vessel in case the Spaniards came over;
which being marked, I ordered Friday and his father
to cut them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct the
work. 1 likewise increased my flocks of goats, by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my inclosure: Nor did I neglect the grape-
season, but cured them as usual, though I had such a
quantity now as would have filled eighty barrels with
raisins. And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till harvest
came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it so much,
that from twenty-two barrels of barley, we threshed
out two hundred and twenty, and the like quantity
of rice, sussicient to victual a ship, to carry me and all
the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered by a
sussicient stock of provision, 1 sent my two ambassa-
dors over to the main land, with a regal authority to
administer the oaths of allegiance and fidelity, and
have an instrument signed under their hands, though
I never asked whether they had pen, ink, or paper;
when giving each of them a musket, eight charges
of powder and ball, and provision enough for eight
days, they failed away with a fair gale, on a day when
the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head, but im-
patient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which
was ushered in by my man's coming running to me,
and calling aloud, Master, master, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any danger,
out I jumps from my bed, puts on my clothes, and
hurries through my little grove; when looking towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half
distant, standing in for the shore, with the wind fair.
I beheld they did not come from the side where the
land lay on, but from the southermost end of the
island: So these being none of the people we wanted, I
ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as 1 came down
from the mountain, which with my ladder I now as-
cended, in order to discover more fuliy what they
were: And now, with the help of my perspective glass,
I plainly perceived an English ship, which 1 concluded
it to be by the fashion of its long-boat, and which fiU-
ed me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
I cannot tell how to describe; and yet sorrfe secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from I kWw not
what cause, as though I had reason to be upornny
guard. And indeed i would have no man contemn the
secret hints and intimations of danger, which very of-
ten are given, when he may imagine there is no possi-
bility of their being real; for had I not been warned
by this silent admonition, I had been in a worse situ-
ation than- before, and perhaps inevitably ruined.
Not long it was before I perceived the boat to approach
she shore, as though they looked for a place where
they mightconvenientlyland ; and at last they ran their
boat on shore upon the beach, about half a mile's dis-
I59
tance, which proved so muchthehappier for me; since
if they had come into the creek, they had landed just
at my door, and might not only have forced me out
of my castle,but plundered meof alllhad in the world.
Now I was fully convinced they were all Englishmen,
three of whom were unarmed and bound ; when im-
mediately the first four or five leaped on shore, and
took those three out of the boat as prisoners; one of
whom I could perceive used the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, affliction, and desparr, while the o-
thers.in a lesser degree, showed abundance os concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday (who was be-
low} to ascend the mountain, and likewise view this
sight. 0 Matter, (soys he to me) you see English mans
eat prisoners, as well as savage mam. And do you think
they will eat them, Friday? said T. l~es, (said Fri-
day) they eat all up. No, no, (said 1) Friday, I am much
more concerned leff they murder them; but as for
eating them up, that I am sure they never will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and savage with me, but al-
so that I could not come within shot of them unper-
ceived, (they having no fire-arms among them) and
save these three men, whom I thought they were go-
ing to kill with their swords. But some comfort it
was to me, that I perceived they were set-at liberty
to go where they pleased, the rascally seamen scatter-
ing about as though they had a mind to fee the
place : And so long did they negligently ramble, that
the tide had ebbed so low as to leave the boat a-
ground. Nor were the t*o men that were in her
more circumspect, for having drank a little too much
liquor, they feli fast asleep ; but one of them waking
before the other, and pcrceiving the boat too fast a-
ground for his, strength to move it, he hallooed out
to the rest, who made all possible expedition to come
to him': But as Providence ordered it, all their force
was inesfectual to launch her, when I could hea?
them speak one to another, Why let her alone, Jack,
can't ye, she'd float next tide »' by which words I was
fully convinced that they were my own countrymen.
All this while I lay very quiet, as being fully sensible,
it could be no less than ten hours before the boat
would be afloat, and then it would be so dark, as that
they could not easily perceive me, by which means I
should be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: Not bat that I prepared for
my defence; yet as I had now another sort of ene-
mies to combat with, I acted with more caution. I:
took two fusees on my shoulders, and gave Friday
three muskets; besides, my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially wh"en two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hang-
ing by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark ; but it being now two o'clock, in the
very heat of the day, the sailors were all straggling in-
to the woods, and undoubtedly were lain down to
fleep. The three poor distressed creatures, too anxi-
ous to get any repose, were however seated under
the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of a mile
from me: Upon which, without any more ado, I
approached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and before I was perceived, I called a-
loud to them in Spanish, What are ye, Gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great confusion,
andbeholding the strange figure I made, they returned
no answer, but seemed as if they would fly from me.
Gentlemen, (said I, in English) don't be afraid: Perhaps
you have a friend nearer you than you expetJ. He must
be from Heaven, (said one of them gravely, and pulling
off his hat) for we are past all help in this world. All
help is from Heaven, (said I); but, Sir, as J have per*
ceived every atlion between you and these brutes, ftnet
your landing, only inform me how to ajjist yout and I will'
do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man (said he, in melt-
ing Wars), are you of human kind, or an angel? Sir,
(said I) my poor habit may tell you I am a man, and an
Englishman, willing to ajjijl you, having but this ser-
vant only : Here are arms and ammunition: Tell freely
your condition, can we save you? The story, (said he)
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near.
But, Sir, I was master of that ship; my men have
mutinied, and it is a favour they have put my mate,
this passenger, and me, on shore, without murdering
us, though we expect nothing but to perish here. Ar$
your enemies gone? said I. No, (replied he, point-
ing to a thicket), there they lie; while my heart trem-
bles, lest having seen and heard us, they should mur-
der us al^. Have they fire-arms? said I. They have
but two pieces, (said he) one of which is left in the
boat: He also told me there were two enormous vil-
lains among them, that were the authors of this mu-
tiny, who, if they were killed or seized, might in-
duce the rest to return to their obedience. Well,
well, (said I) let us retire farther under the covering
of the woods; and there it was I made these condi-
tions with him:
I. That while they staid in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority, but be entirely con-
formable to my orders, and return me the arms
which I should put into their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Friday and me our passage gratis to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sussicient, advising them to sire upon them as they
lay. The captain modestly said, That he was sorry to
kill them, though on the other'hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us all, should they bring the
ship's company upon us. Well, (said he) do as you
think fit: And so accordingly I fired, killing one of
the captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the o-
ther, who eagerly called for assistance; but the cap-
tain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to him,
Sirrah, (said he) it is too late to call for ajstjlance, you
Jhould rather cry to God to pardon your villany; so
knocked him down with the stock of his gun : Three
others were also slightly wounded, who at my ap-
proach cried out for mercy. This the captain grant-
ed, upon condition that they would swear to be true
to him in recovering the ship* which they solemnly
did; however I obliged the captain to keep them
bound. After which I sent Friday and the captain's
mate to secure the boat, and bring away the oars and
fails; when at their return, three men coming back,
and feeing their late distressed captain, now their
conqueror, submitted to be bound also. Agd then it
was, that, having more liberty, I related the adven-
tures of my whole life, which he hear4 with a serious
and wonderful attention. After this, I carried him
and his two men into my little fortified castle, showed
them all my conveniencies, and refreshed them with
such provisions as I could afford. When this was over,
we began to consider about regaining the ship. He said
that there were 26 hands on board, who knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy
and mutiny, would grow so very hardened, that it
would be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference indeed ; but
something we did resolve on, and immediately put in
execution: For we heaved the boat upon the beach
so high, that she could not shoot off at high-water
1 mark, and broke a hole in her, not easily to be stop-
ped; and so all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged them to
fend another boat ashore, with ten men armed,
whose faces the captain plainly 'descried, the boat-
swain being the chief ossicer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage
(for I had perceived he was in concern), in the mean
while securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinel; but two others we took
into our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle. When the sailors land-
ed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they not
only hallooed, but fired for their companions to hear,
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered; then they made as if they would re-
turn to the ship. I could perceive the captain's coun-
tenance change at this, till of a sudden three men
were ordered to look after the boat, while the other
seven leaped .on shore, in order to search for their
companions: And indeed they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence they
ceuld fee a great way into the^ woods, and there
shouting and hallooing till tired and weary, at length
seated themselves under\ a spreading tree. My opi-
nion was, that nothing could be done till night, when
I might use some artifice to get them out of the boat:
But of a sudden they all started up, and made to the
sea-side : Hereupon I ordered Friday and the captain's
mate to go over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so, decoying them into the woods, come
round to me again. And this indeed had its effect;
for they followed the noise, till coming westward to
the creek, they called for their boat to carry them o-
ver, taking one of the men o\lt of her, and leaving
two to look after her, having fastened her to the
stump of a little tree on shore. Hereupon immediate-
ly the captain and our party passing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised them both, by the captain's
knocking down one, and ordering the other to sur-
render on pain of death, and who, being the honest-
est os them all, sincerely joined with us. By this
time it was pretty late, when the rest returning to
their boat, which they found a-ground in the creek,
the tide out, and the men gone, they ran about,
wringing their hands, crying it was an enchanted
island, and that they should be all murdered by spi-
rits or devils. My men would willingly have fallen
upon them, but I would not agree to hazard any of
our party. But to be more certain, Friday and the
captain crawled upon their hands and feet as near as
possible: And when the boatswain approached in
iight, so eager was the captain, that he sired and kill-
ed him on the spot. Friday wounded the next man,
and the third ran away. Hereupon I advanced with
my whole army, and, it being dark, I ordered the
men whom we had surprised with the boat to call
them by their names, and to parley with them. Ac-
cordingly he called aloud, Tom Smith !. Tom Smith!
He answered, Who's that, Robinson? The other
answered, For God's fake, Tom,surrender immediately,
er you are all dead men. Who must we surrender
to r says Smith. To our captain and fifty men herey
ivho have taken me prisoner, wounded Will. Fryes, and
killed the boatswain. Shall we have quarters then?
said he. Hereupon the captain calls cut, Tou, Smith*
you know my voice ;surrender immediately, and youshall
all have your lives granted, except Will. Atkins. Here-
upon Atkins cried out, What have I done, captain,
more than the resl, who have been as bad as me? But
that was a lie, for he was the person that laid hold
of him, and bound him. However, he was ordered
to submit to the Governor's mercy, for such was i
called. And so, laying down their arms, we bound
them all, and seized on their boat.
After this the captain expostulated with them, tell-
ing them, that the Governor was an Englishman, who.
might execute them there; but he thought they would
be sent to England, except Will. Atkins, who was or-
dered to prepare for death next morning. Hereupon
Atkins implored the captain to intercede for his life,
and the rest begged they might not be sent to Eng-
land. Thus answered our project for seizing the ship.
For sending Atkins, and two os the worst,fall bound, tox
the cave, and the rest being committed to my bower.
I sent the captain, to treat with them, in the Gover-
nor's name, osfering them pardon, if they would assist
him in recovering the ship. Upon which they all pro-
mised to stand by him till the last drop of their blood;
and whoever acted treacherously should be hanged in
chains upon the beach. They were all released on
these assurances; and then the captain repaired the
other boat, making his passenger captain of her, with
four men well armed; while his mate himself, and five
men more, went in the other. By midnight they
came within call of the ship, when the captain order-
ed Robinson to hale her, and tell them that, with great
dissiculty, they had sound the men at last. But while
they were discoursing, the captain, his mate, and the
rest entered, and knocked down the second mate and
carpenter, secured those that were upon deck, by put-
ting them under hatches, while the other boat's crew
entered and secured the forecastle; they then broke into
the round-house, where the mate, after some resist-
ance, mot the pirate captain through the head; up-
on which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joyful signal
was fired, which I heard with the greatest joy imagin-
able : Nor was it long before he brought the ship
to an anchor at the creek's mouth, when coming to
me unawares, There, (fays he) my dearesi friend and
deliverer, there is yourship, and we are your servants;
a comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in his
arms, while, with gratitude to Heaven, we were
tenderly embracing each other.
Nothingnow remained, but to consult what we should
do with the prisoners, whom he thought it was not
fafe to take on board. Hereupon, concerting with
the captain, I dressed myself in one of his suits, and
fending for them, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they would tarry
there, their lives should be spared; if not, they should
be hanged at the first port we came to. They agreed to
stay. Hereupon I told them my whole story, char-
ging them to be kind to the Spaniards that were ex-
pected, gave them all my arms, and informing them of
every thir;g necessary for their subsistence, I .and my
man Friday went on board. But the next morning
two of the men came swimming to the ship's side, de-
siring the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them afterwards, complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upon which I
prevailed with the captain to take them in, and be-
ing severely whipped and pickled, they proved more
honest for the future. And so I bid farewell to this
island, carrying along with me my money, parrot, um-
brella, and goat-skin cap, setting sail Dec. 12. 1686,
after twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen
days residence, that fame day and month that I escap-
ed from Sallee, landing in England June 11. 1687,
after thirty-five years absence from my own country,
which rendered me altogether a stranger there.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon after, I went down to Yorkshire, where
all my family were expired, except two sisters, and
as many of one of my brother's children. I found no
provision had been made for 'me, they concluding I
had been long since dead; so that I was but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a great
kindness, by his report to the owners, how I had de-
livered their ship on the desolate island; upon which
they made me a present of 200I. Sterling. I next went
to Lisbon, taking my man Friday with me, and ar-
riving there in April, I met the Portuguese captain,
who took me 011 board on the African coast; but be-
ing ancient, he had left off the sea, and resigned all
his business to his son, who followed the Brasil trade.
So altered both of us were, that we did not know
each other at first, till I discovered myself more fully
to him. After a few embraces, I began to inquire of
my concerns, and theu the old gentleman told me, that
it was nine years fince he had been at Brasil, where
my partner was then living, but my trustees were
both dead; that it was his belief 1 should have a
goad account of the product os my plantation; that
the imagination of my being lost, had obliged my
trustees to give an estimate of my share to the pro-
curator-fiscal, who, in case of my not returning, had
given one third to the King, and the rest to the
monastery of St Augustine; but if I put in my claim, or
any one for me, it would be returned, except the year-
ly product, which was given to the poor. I then de-
sired him to tell me, what improvement he thought
had been made of my plantation; and whether he ima-
gined it wa's worth my while to look after it? He an-
swered, he did not know how much it was improved,
but this he was certain of, that my partner was grown
vastly rich upon his half of it; and that he had been
informed, that the King had 200 moidores per annum
for his third part. He added, that the survivors of
my trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name being
registered in the country, by which means in-Jisputably
I should recover considerable sums of money. But,
(answered I) how could my trustees dispose of my ef-
fects, when I made you only my heir? This, (he laid)
was true, but there being no assidavit made of my
death, h£ cotild not act as an executor. However, he
had ordered his son (then at Brasil) to act by pro-
curation upon my account,and he had taken possession
of my sugar-house, having accounted himsels for eight
years with my partner and trustees for the profits, of
which he would give me a very good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully in a
few days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold,over and above what had been lost at sea,
after I had left the place. And then herecounted tome
what misfortunes he had gone through, which forced
my money out of his hands, to buy part in a new ship:
But (says he)^wstall not want, take ibis, and when my
son returns, every farthing shall be paid you. Upon
which he put into my hand a purse of 150 moidores
in gold, as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship in which his son was, and which he
osfered as security for the remainder. But really,
when I saw so much goodness, generosity, tenderness,
and real honesty, I had not the heart to accept it, for
fear he should straiten himself on my account. It is
true, (said he) it may be so; but the money is yours, mt
mine, and you may have the greatest occasion for it.
However, I returned fifty of them, promising to give
him the other hundred' when I got my esfects in my
hands, saying I designed to go myself for that purpose.
But he told me he could save me the trouble; and
so caused me to enter my name with a public notary,
as likewise my afsidavit, with a procuration assixed to
it; and he advised me to send it in a letter to one of
his acquaintance, a merchant at Brasil; and indeed
nothing could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months time I had a very faithful
account of all my esfects, what sums of money were
raised, what expended, 'and what remained for my
use: In a word, I found myself worth 5000I. Ster-
ling, and ioool. per annum. Nor was this all, for my
partner congratulated me upon my being alive, telling
me how much my plantation was improved, what ne-
gros were at work, and how many Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation, de-
siring me to accept kindly some presents he had sent
me, which I found showed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
faithful captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores; and not only forgiving him all he owed me, I
allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to England, I returned letters of^ thanks to the
Prior of St Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the captain's
advice, I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England: When, as it hap-
pened, I got a young English gentleman, a merchant's
son at Lisbon, to accompany me, together with two
English and two Portuguese gentlemen ; so that with
a Portuguese servant,- an English sailor, and my man
Friday, there were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when the summer decaying, we hasted to
Navarre, where we were informed that there was
scarcely any passing, by reason.of the prodigious quan-
tity of snow; so that we were obliged to abide near
twenty days at Pampeluna, and at last to take a guide
toconductus safe towardsThoulouse. And nowtwelve
other gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away out
guide led us by the frightful mountains, and through
so many intricate mazes and windings, that we in-
sensibly past them, which, as we travelled along,
ushered us into the prospect of the fruitful and charm-
ing provinces of Languedoc and Gascogne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical and
comical. First, Our guide was encountered by three
wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his horse,
and wounded him in three places: Upon which my
man riding up to his assistance, shot one of them dead,
on which the others ran into the woods. But the plea-
fantest adventure was, to fee my man attack the bear.
This creature, if let alone, will never meddle with
you, and this my man Friday very well knew, and
so begging leave of me in broken Englisli, he told us,
He would make good laugh. Why, you silly fool, (said I)
he'll eat you up at a mouthful. Eatee me up! (replied
he) ntf eatee him, and make much good laugh. Upon
which, pulling off his boots, he claps on his pumps,
and running after the monstrous beast, he called out
that he wanted to speak with him; and then throwing
stones on purpose tp incense him, the beast turns about
in a fury, and with prodigious strides, shusfles after
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
him. But though he could not keep pace with Friday.,
who made up to us as-it were for help, yet, beinjt an-
gry, You dog, (said I) immediately take horse, and let ut
sJjoot the creature. But he cried, Dear Master, noshoott
me make pit much laugh. And' so he turned about,
making signs to follow, while the bear ran after him,
till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a minute,
leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor did the bear
make any dissiculty of it, but, notwithstanding his
bulk, ascended like a'eat. You must think I was
not a little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till we
rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted on the
oak; on the beginning of the same branch to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear durst
not come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now, Master,
me make much laugh, me make de bear dance. Upon
which he fell a shaking* the bough, which made the
creature look behind him to-see how he could retreat.
Then, as if the be;\r had understood his stammering
English, Why you not come farther, Mr: Bear? said he.
Pray, Mr. Bear, come farther: And then indeed we
all burst into laughter, especially when we perceived
Friday' drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving
the beast to make thebast of his way clown the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to kill v
him, Friday cried out,- O dear, Master, noshwt; me
shoot by and by; when taking up the gun,, Me not shoot
yet, (said he) me make tnce more much laugh. And ac-
cordingly he was as good as his word, for the crea-
ture descending backwards from the tree very leisurely,'
before he could lay one'foot on theground, Friday
shot him through the ear stone-dead, and looking to
see if we were pleased, burst out into a hearty laugh,
saying, So we kill bear in my country; not with gun,
but much long arrow. Thus ended our diversion, to
our great latisfaction, especially in a place where the
terrible howlings struck us with ciuttirrttaj terror. But
17I
the snows now growing very deep, particularly on the
mountains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to
seek for sustenance in the villages, where coming by
surprise on the country people, they killed several of
them, besides a great number of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous
place to pass by; and if there were any more wolves
in the country, there we should find them. This was
a small plain, encompassed with woods, to get through
a long lane, to the village where we were to lodge.
When we entered the wood the fun was within half
an hour of setting; and a little after it was set, we came
into the plain, which was not above two furlongs over,
and then we saw five great wolves cross the road,
without taking notice of us, and so swift as though they
were pursuing after their prey. Hereupon our guide,
believing there were more coming, desired us to be
upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes were very
circumspect, till about a league farther we faw a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
case. My man Friday fain would have sired at them,
but I would not permit him: Nor had we gone half
over the plain, till we heard dreadful howlings in a
wood on our left, when presently we faw an hundred
come up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner: Andthenlorderedthateveryother
man should fire; that those who did not might be ready
to give a second volley, should they advance upon us;
and then every man to make use of his pistols. "J3ut
there was no necessity for this; for the enemy being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire; four of them
were shot dead, and several others being wounded,
went bleeding away, as we could very plainly discover
by the snow. And now remembering what had beers
often told me, that such was the majesty of a man's
voice, as to strike terror even into the fiercest crea-
tures, I ordered all our companions to halloo as loud
as possible: And in this notion I was not altogether
mistaken; for they immediately turned about upon'
the first halloo, and began to retire: Upon which,
ordering a second volley in their rear, they galloped
into the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way : But we had not rode far before we were obliged
to put ourselves in a posture of defence as before,
being alarmed with a very dreadful noise-in the fame
.wood on our left hand, the fame way as we were to
pass, only that it was at some distance from us. By
this time the darksome clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the night growing very dusky, made
it so much the more to our disadvantage: But the
noise still increasing, we were sully assured, that it
was the howling and yelling of those ravenous crea-
tures: When presently three troops of wolves, on our
front, appeared to our fight, as though a great num-
ber of them had a design to surround us, and de-
vour us in spite of sate. But as they did not fall upon
us immediately, we proceeded on our journey in the
swiftest manner the roads would permit our horses,
which was only a large trot. It was in this manner
we travelled, till such time as we discovered another
wood, and had the prospect of its entrance, through
which we were to pass at the farthest side of the plain.
But surely none can express the terror we were in,
when approaching the lane, we perceived a confused
number of the fiercest wolves standing, and as it were
guarding its entrance. Nor were we long in this a-
mazement, before another occasion of horror present-
ed itself: For suddenly we heard the report of a gun
at.another opening into the wood; and looking that
way, out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying
with the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixteen
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to devour
the poor creature: And unquestionably they did so,
after they had run him down, not being able to hold
out that swiftness with which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcases of two
men and another horse, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: And undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece lay by him; but alas! most of
the upper part of his body and his head were en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or retreat,
we could 'not tell; but it was not long before the
wolves themselves made us come to a resolution: For
such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom ex-
pected their prey, that were our bodies to be divided
among them, there would not be half a mouthful a-
piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us, that
but a little way from the entrance, there lay some very
• large timber trees, which I supposed had been cut
down and laid there for sale, among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us for a breast-work;
when desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangle,
or three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre,
the only place where we could preserve them.'
Never certainly was there a more furious charge than
what the wolves made upon us in this place ; and the
sight of the horses, which was the principal thing they
aimed at, provoked their hunger, and added to their
natural fierceness. They'came on us with a molt
dreadful noise, that made the woods ring again, and
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I ordered
every other man to fire as before directed; and indeed
so well did they take their aim, that they killed several
of the wolves at the first volley, but still we were o-
bliged to keep a continual firing, by reason they came
on like devils, pushing one another with the great-
est fury. But our second volley something abated.
their courage; when stopping a little, we hoped they
would have made the best of their way; however it
did not prove so, for others made a new attempt up-
on us: And though in four firings we killed seven-
teen or eighteen of them, laming twice as many, yet
ihey came on several times successively, as though
they valued not their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too suddenly:
And therefore called my other servant, and giving him
a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train quite a-
long the timber, which he did, while Friday was char-
ging my fusee and his own with the greatest dexte-
rity. By this time the wolves comitig up the tim-
ber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a discharged
pistol close on the powder. This so scorched and ter-
rified them, that some fell down, and others jump-
ed in among us,with the strength and terror of the
slame; but these we immediately dispatched, when ail
the rest, frightened with the light, which the darksome
night caused to appear more dreadful, began at length
to retire: Upon which, ordering oHr last pistols to
be fired at once, giving at the fame time a great
shout, the wolves were obliged to have recourse to
their swiftness and turned tail; and then we sallied
out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces
, with our swords, which obliged them to howl lament-
ably, to the terror of their fellow devourers, who
resigned to us the field as victorious conquerors.
And indeed, I question whether Alexander, King of
Macedon, in any of his conquests, had more occasion
for triumph than we had; for he was but attacked
by numerous armies of soldiers; whereas cur little
army was obliged to combat a legion of devils, as it
were, worse than cannibals, who, had they slain us,
would have sacrificed us the fame moment, to satis-
fy their voracious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives from
their fury. We still had a league to go farther,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
inost unwelcome howlings, expecting every moment
another attack. But, in an hour's time, we arrived
safe at the town where we were to lodge; and here
we found the place strictly guarded, and all in terrible
confusion, as well they might, for fear of the bears
and wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
'upon their cattie and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, by reason the
other fell very bad of his wounds which he had re-
ceived, as before-mentioned. After we had reached
Thoulouse, we came into a warm, pleasant, and fruit-
ful country, not infested with wolves, nor ^ny fort
bf ravenous creatures: And when we told our story
there, they much blamed our guide, for conducting
to through the forest at the foot of the mountains,
arid in such a severe season, when the snow obliged
"them to seek for shelter in the woods. When we
informed them in what manner we placed ourselves,
«hd the horses in the centre, then they exceedingly
reprehended us,, 'and told us, it was an hundred to
one but we had all been destroyed; for that it was
the fight of the horses, their so much desired prey,
'made the wolves more ragingly furious than they
would have been ; which was evident, by their being
at other times really afraid of a gun; but then, being
exceedingly hungry, and furious upon that account,
their1 eagerness to come at the horses made them in-
sensible of their danger; and that if we had not by
a continual sire, and at last by the cunning strata-
gem of the train -of powder, got the power over them,
it had been great odds if their number had not over-
powered us : Besides, it was a great mercy we alight-
'ed from our horses, and fought them with that cou-
rage and conduct, which, had we failed to do, every
man of us, with our beasts, had been devoured. And
indeed this was nothing but the truth; for never in
H4
my life was I so sensible of danger, as when 300 devils
came roaring upon us; to shun whose unwelcome
company, if I was sure to meet a storm every week,
I would rather go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity have given a
more ample account than my pen is able to set forth.
From Thoulouse I travelled to Paris, from thence to
Calais, where I took shipping, and landed at Dover
the 14th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon dis-
covered my new-found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The good
ancient widow, my only privy counsellor, thought
no pains or care too great to procure my advantage;
nor had I ever occasion to blame her fidelity, which
drew from me an ample reward. I was for leaving
my effects in her hands, intending to set out for
Lisbon, and so to the Brasils; but as in the desolate
island I had some doubts about the Romish religion,
so I knew there was little encouragement to settle
there, unless I would apostatise from the orthodox
faith, or live in continual fear of the inquisition.
Upon this account I resolved to sell my plantation,
and for that intent I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who returned me an answer, to my great satisfaction,
which was, that he could readily fell it there : How-
ever, if I thought it convenient to give him liberty
to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the sur-
vivors ofmy trustees, residing at the Brasils, who con-
sequently understood its intrinsic value, having lived
jult upon the spot, and who I was sensible were very
rich, and therefore might be the more willing to pur-
chase it; he did not in the least doubt,but I should make
4000 or 5000 pieces of eight more of it, than I should
do if I disposed of it in any other manner whatsoevre.
You may be sore I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I sent
him an order to osfer it unto them, which he accord-
ingly did; so that about eight months after, the ship
being in that time returned, he gave me a satisfactory
account that they not only willingly accepted the osfer,
but that they had also remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight to a correspondent of their own at
Lisbon, in order to pay for the purchase.'
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument of
sale, according to form, which they had sent from
Lisbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores per annum., which
I had allowed him during life, as also fifty to his son
during life, according to my faithful promise, which
the plantation was to make good-as rent-charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the first part of my life, so remarkable for the
many peculiar providences that attended it, floating
in an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of
adversity and prosperity, beginning fooliihly, and yet
ending happily; methinks, now 1 am come to a safe-
and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my anchor,,
and, laying up my vessel, bid (for a while) adieu to
foreign adventures. I had no other concerns to look,
after, but the care of my brother's two sons, which,,
with the good widow's persuasions, obliged me to
continue at home seven years. One of these children^
I bred up a gentleman, and the other an experienced,
failor, remarkable for his courage and bravery. Be-
sides this, I married a- virtuous young gentlewoman,-
of a very good family, by whom I had two sons and:
one daughter. But my dear and tender wife leaving
this earthly stage (as you will hear in the second part
of my life), which rending my soul as it were asun-
der, my native country became as it were tiresome
to. me: And my nephew happening to come from,!
sea, templed me to venture another voyage to the
East Indies, which I did in the year 1694, at which
time.. I visited my island, and informed myself of
every thing that happened since my departure.
One might reasonably imagine, that what I had suf-
fered, together with an advanced age, and the fear
of losing not only what I had gotten, but my life as-
so, might have choked up all the seeds of youthful
ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period to
my wandering inclinations. But as nothing but death
can fully allay the active part of my life, no less re-
markable for the many various contingencies of it,
you will next perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my s uccessors the Spaniards, had an account
of the usage they met with from the Englishmen,
agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separating, till
at last they were subjected to the Spaniards, who yet
used them very honourahly; together with the won-
derful and successful battles over the Indians, who
invaded, and thought to have conquered the island,
but were repelled by their invincible courage and
bravery, having taken eleven men and five women
prisoners; by which, at my return, I found about
twenty young children on my little kingdom. Here
I staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary
things, as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the
island into pans, reserving the whole property to
myself. Nor will you be insensible, by the account of
these things, of stveral new adventures I have been
engaged in, the battles I have fought, and the deli-
verances I have met with, and while in the surprising
relation of such remarkable occurrences, I shall de-
scribe many of God's kindest providences to me in
particular, no less conspicuous in the fame goodness,
power, and majesty of our Creator, shown, one way
or other, over the face of the earth, if duly adverted
to.
The further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, where- -
in are cotttained several ftrange and surprising ac-
counts of his travels, and mqfl remarkable transac-
tions, both by sea and land. With his wonderful vi-
sion of the Angelic World.
Ws IEN we consider the puissant force of na-
ture, and what mighty influence it has many
times over the temper of the mind; it will be no such
great wonder to think that my powerful reason should
be overcome by a much stronger inclination. My late
acquired kingdom ran continually in my thoughts all
the day, and I dreamt of it in the night; nay, I
made it the continual subject of my talk, even to im-
pertinence, when I was awake. I had such vapours
in my head, that I actually supposed myself at my
castle; that I not only perceived Friday's father, the
old Spaniard, and the wicked sailors, but that I talk-
ed and discoursed with them about their manner of
living; that I heard those things related to me which
I found afterwards to be too true; and that I exe-
cuted my judgments with the greatest severity upon
the offenders. And indeed this anticipating all the
pleasing joys of my life, scarcely afforded me one
pleasant hour; my dear and tender wife could not
but take notice of it, which drew these affectionate
speeches from her; My dear, (said she) I am really
persuaded tbat some secret impulse from heaven occasions
iu you a determination to fee the island again': Nor am
I less sensible, but your being engaged to me and these
dear children, is the only hinderance of your departure.
-I know, my dear, if I was in the grave, you would mt
'long continue at home: Prevent not your happiness upen
my account, whose only comfort centres in you. All that
I can objetl is, that such an hazardous-undertaking is no
Way consistent with a person of your years; but if you are
resolved to go, (added she, weeping) only permit me #*
bear you company, and that is all that l-de/ire.
H 6
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powerful charms, brought me
insensibly into my right understanding: And when I
considered all the transactions of my life, and parti-
. cularly my new engagement; that I had two chil-
dren already born, and my wife big of a third; and
that 1 had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sussiciency; with much strug-
gling, I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to ap-
ply myself to some business or other, which might put
a period to such wandering inclinations. Hereupon I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, with a
resolution to move thither: Upon this there was a
pretty convenient house, surrounded with land, very
capable of improvement, which suited my temper,
as to planting, managing, and cultivating. Nor was I
long before I entered upon my new settlement, hav-
ing bought ploughs, harrows, carts, waggons, horses,
cows and sheep; so that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and was as happy in my retirement as the
greatest monarch in the world. And what made me
think my happiness the greater was, that I was in
that middle state of life which my father had so often
recommended, much resembling the felicity of a rural
retirement, which is elegantly described by the poet
in these lines: i
Free from all vices, free from care;,
Age has no pain, aud youth no snar^.
But in tlie midst of this my happiness, I was sud-
denly plunged into the greatest sorrows that I could
possibly endure: For, when I least expected it, my
dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the ir-
resistible power, os death, leaving this transitory life
for a better. It is 'impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
]* test breath shall record. Her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the im-
\
I /
ROBINSOH CRUSOE. i8r
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mother:
In a word, she was the spirit of all my asfairs, and
the centre of my enterprises. But now, since the
cruel hand of d^th had closed my dearest's eyes, I
seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world; my
privy counsellor being gone,- I was like a ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squan-
dering away their estates, this put me in mind how
I had lived in my little kingdom, where both reason
and religion dictated to me, that there was some-
thing that certainly was the reason and end of life,
which was far superior to what could be hoped for
on this side the grave. My country delights were
now as insipid and dull, as music or science to those
who have neither taste nor ingenuity. In short, re-
solving to leave off house-keeping, I left my farm,
and in a few months returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so famous for
its variety of entertainment, afford me any agree-
able delight: A state of idleness I found to be the
very dregs of life, and most hurtful to body and
foul. It was now the beginning of the year 1694,
at which time my nephew (who, as I before observed,
had been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be.
captain of a ship) was returned from a short voyage
to Bilboa, the first he had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him.
to go a voyage for them, to the East Indies and Chi-
na, in the manner of private traders: And now,
Uncle, (said he) if you'll accompany me thither, I'll en-
gage to land you upon your old island, to visit the Jlate ef
your little kingdom.
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed
to get a patent for its possession, and then to fill it
'with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked stedfastly on him, What devil, or spirit,
(said I)sent you with this unlucky errand? He started
at first, but recovering himself, when he perceived
I was not offended, Sir, (replied he) what I have
proposed cannot, I hope, be styled unlucky, since
certainly you must be cfesirous to fee your little ter-
ritory, where you feigned with more content than
any of your brother kings in the universe. Nephew,
(said I) if you will leave me there, and call for me
as you come back, I care not if I give my consent;
But he answered, that the merchants would not al-
low their vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to re-
turn there again, which was a month's fail out of the
way; besides, Sir, (said he) if I should miscarry, was
your request granted, why then you would be locked'
up as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
'was, to carry -a framed sloop on board, ready to
be set up in the island, by the assistance of some
carpenters, whom we should carry with us, that
might be fitted in a few days to go to sea. I was
not long in forming my resolution, which overswayed
my good friend the widow's persuasions, and the na-
tural affection I bore to my young children. I made
my will, and settled my estate in such a manner
that I was perfectly sure that my poor infants would
have justice done them. The good widow not only
undertook to make provision for my voyage, but al-
so took the charge of my domestic affairs, and to
provide for my children's education; and indeed no
mother could take more care, or understood that of-
sice better; for which I lived to reward, and return
her my hearty thanks.
The beginning of January 1694-5, mY nephew-
being ready to fail, I and Friday went on board ki
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that sloop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
I83
new colony. Fir/I, I had some servants, whom I
proposed to leave there, as inhabitants, or to work
while I staid there, as they should appear willing:
There were two carpenters, a smith, and a very in-
genious fellow who was Jack of all trades; for he
was not only a cooper by trade, but also he was dex-
terous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn,
likewise a good turner, and a good pot-maker. I
also carried a tailor, who consented to stay in my
plantation,_and proved a most necessary fellow in the
island. As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient
quantity of linen, and English stuffs, for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there; as like-
wise gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with
beds, bedding., and household stuff, especially kit-
chen utensils, with pots, and kettles, pewter, brass,
&c. also nails, tools of all sorts, staples, hooks,
hinges, and -.ill other things necessary; all which, I
think, cost me about three hundred pounds. Nor
was this all; for I carried an hundred spare-arms,
muskets and fusees, besides some pistols, a considerable
quantity of several sorts of shot, two brass cannon,
besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part for some
pikes and halberts. I made my nephew take with
us two small quarter-deck guns, more than he had
occasion for in his ship, to leave behind, if there
was a necessity; that so we might build a fort there,
and man it against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea ; and though I cannot say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to r«it in at Galway in Ireland,
where we lay wind-bound two-and-twenty days. Here
indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we added
to our ship's stores, by taking in several live hogs,
two cows and calves, which I then resolved to put
on shore in my island, if our necessities did not call
for them. On the 5th of February we-seiled from
ROBINSOX CRUSOE.
Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for some
days; and I think it was about the 20th of the fame
month, late in the evening, when the mate informed
us, that he saw a slash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and when he was speaking, a boy came in, and told
us, that the boatswain had heard another. Upon
which we all ran to the quarter-deck, from whence
in a few moments we perceived a terrible fire at a
distance. We had immediately recourse to our reck-
onings, in which we were all of opinion, that there
could be no land that way, it appearing to be at N.
N. W. Hereupon we concluded that some ship had
taken fire at sea, and that it could not be far off, by
the report of the guns which we had heard. We
made up directly to it, and in half an hour's time,
the wind being fair, we could plainly perceive a great
ship on fire in the middle of the sea. Touched with
this unhappy disaster, and considering my former
circumstances, when the Portuguese captain took me
up, I immediately ordered five guns to be fired, that
the poor creatures, not seeing us, it being dark,
(though we could perceive their slame) might be sen-
sible there was deliverance at hand, and consequently
might endeavour to save themselves in their boat..
Nor was it long before the ship blew up in the air,
and the fire was extinguished in the ocean. But
supposing them all to be in their boats, we hung out
our lanterns, and kept firing till eight o'clock in the
morning; when, with our perspectives, we beheld
two boats, full of people, making towards us, though
the tide was against them; then spreading out our
ancient, and hanging out n waft, as a signal for them
to come on board, in half an hour's time, we came
up to them, and took them all in, there being no
less than sixty-four men, women, and children. It
was a French merchant sh;p of 300 tons, homeward
bound from Quebec in the river of Canada. The
master informed me how, by the negligence of the.
steersman, the steerage was set on fire; that, at his
outcry for help, the fire was, as they thought, to-
. tally extinguished; but that some sparks getting be-
tween the timber and within the ceiling, it proceed-
ed into the hold, where there was no refilling it;
that then they got into their boats, as creatures in
the last extremity, with what provisions they had,
together with oars, fails, and a compass, intending
to go back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing at
S.'E. and by E. though there were several chances
against them, as storms to overset and founder them,
rains and colds to benumb and perish their limbs,
and contrary winds to keep them back and starve
them : But, (said he) in this our great distress, we
heard the welcome report of your guns, when, with
unspeakable joy, taking down our masts and fails,
we were resolved to lie by till morning; but per-
ceiving your light, we set our oars at work to keep
our boat a-head, the sooner to attain your ship, the
happy instrument of our deliverance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion; fear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions; but an excess of joy carries in it a thou-
sand extravagancies; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
passionate, sprightly, and gay, than that of other
nations. Some were weeping, tearing themselves
in the greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark
mad about the ship; while the rest were stamping
with their feet, wringing their hands, singing, laugh-
ing, swooning away, vomiting, fainting, with a few
returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and cross-
ing themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken, our
surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood. But
among the pailengers, there were two priests, the
one an old, and the other a young man; but what a-
mazed me more, Was, thafthe oldest was m the worst
plight; for no sooner did he; perceive Mmself freed
from danger, but he dropt down, as h were with-
out life, and, to every one's appearance, quite dead;
'but the surgeon, chassing and rubbing his arm, o-
pened a vein, which at first dropped, and then flow-
ing more freely, the old man began to open his eyes,
and in a quarter of an hour was 'well again. But
soon remembering his happy changeytiie joy of which
whirled his blood about faster than -the vessels could
convey it, he became so feverish, as made him more
fit for bedlam than any other place ; but the surgeon
giving him a sleepy dose, he was perfectly composed
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the
young priest. At his entrance on board the ship,
he fell on his face in the most humble prostration to
the Almighty. I thought indeed he had 'fallen into
a swoon, and so ran to help him up ; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks to the Al-
mighty, desiring me to leave him a few moments,
and that, next his Creator, he would return me thanks
also. And indeed he did so, about throe minutes
after, with great seriousness and affection, while the
tears stood in his eyes, which -convinced me of the
gratitude of his foul. Nor did he less show his piety
and wisdom, in applying himself to his country
people, and labouring to compose them, by the most
powerful reasons, arguments, and perfnasions. And
when, indeed, those people had taken their night's
repose, in such lodgings as our ship would allow,
we found nothing bat the best of manners, and the
most civil acknowledgment?, for which the French
are eminently remarkable. The next day the caa-
tain, and one of the priests, desired to speak with
me, and my nephew, the commander. They told
tts, that they had saved some money, and valuable
things out of the ruined vessel, which were at our
service; only that they desired to be set on shore
some where in our way» At the first my nephew
was for accepting the money; but I (who knew how
hard my cafe would have been, had the Portuguese
captain served me so) persuaded him to the contrary;
and therefore told them, that as we had done no-
thing but what we were obliged to do, by nature
and humanity, and what we ourselves might expect
from others in such cahmity ; so we took them op to
save them, not to plunder them, or leave them naked
upon the land, to perish for want os subsistence, and
therefore would not accept their money: But as <o
sanding them, that was a great dissiculty .; for, being
bound to the East Indies, it was impossible wilfully
to change our voyage upon their particular account;
nor could my nephew (who was under charter-party
to pursue it by way of Brasil) answer it to the freight-
ers. All that we could do, was to put ourselves in
the way of meeting some ships homeward bound
from the West Indies, that if possible they might
get a passage to France or England, Indeed they
were very thankful for our first kindness; but were
under great concern, especially the passengers, at
their being carried to the East Indies. They beg-
ged therefore I would keep on the Banks of New-
foundland, where probably they might meet with
some ship or Hoop to C2rry them to Canada, whence
they came. As this was but a reasonable request,
I was inclined to grant it, since it was no breach of
charter-party, and that the laws of God and nature
obliged us to do what good we could to our fellow-
creatures; and besides, the danger we ourselves
should be in for want of provisions; so we consent-
ed to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and
weather would permit-; if not, that we should carry
them to Martinico in the West Indies. But as it
happened, in a week's time, we made the Banks of
Newfoundland, where the French people hired a
i88
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
bark to carry them to France. But the young priest
being desirous to go to the- East Indies, I readily a-
greed to it, because I liked his conversation; and two
or three of the French sailors also entered themselves
on board our ship.
Now, directing our course for the West Indies,
steering S. and S. by E. about twenty days with little
wind, another adventure happened to exercise our
humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5 min.
north, the 19th of March 1694-9, we perceived a
fail (our course S. E. and by S.) which bore up to
us, and then she appeared to be a large vessel, hav-
ing lost her main-top-mast, fore-mast, and boltsprit;
when firing a gun as a signal of distress, wind N.N. W.
we soon came to speak with her. She was a ship of
Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, out of which
road she had been forced by a hurricane to the west-
ward, in which they lost their masts.
They told us, their expectations were to fee the
Bahama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N. N. W. and having no fails to work the
ship with, but the main course, and a kind of square
sail upon a jury foremast, because they could not
come near the land, were endeavouring to stand for
the Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their
fatigue, they were almost starved for want of pro-
vision, having eat nothing for eleven daysall that
they had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. . In this ship were three
passengers, a youth, his mother, and a maid-servant,
who were in a most deplorable condition for want of
food. If I had not gone on board their ship, the
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me, and they would have inevitably perished, though
indeed their second mate (who was captain, by rea-
son the true captain was not on board when the hur-
ricane happened) had before informed me that there
were such persons on board, whom he supposed to
be dead, being afraid to inquire after them, because
he had nothing to give them for relief. Hereupon
we resolved to let them have what we could spare,
ordering the mate to bring some of his men on board
us, which he did accordingly; as he and they look-
ed like skeletons, when meat was set before them,
I ordered them to eat sparingly; but however they
soon fell sick, which obliged the surgeon to mix
something in their broth, which was to be to them
both food and physic. When they were fed, we
ordered our mate to carry them a sack of bread, and
four or five pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged
them to see it boiled, and to keep a guard on the
cook-room, to prevent the men from eating it raw,
and consequently killing themselves with what was
designed for their reliefs But particularly I desired
the mate to fee what condition the poor passengers
were in, and the surgeon gave him a pitcher of the
fame broth which he had prepared for the men;
and being curious to fee this scene of misery myself,
I took the captain (as we called the mate of the ship)
in our boat, and sailed after them.
Here was a fad sight indeed! scarce were the
victuals half boiled in the pot, but they were rea.ly
to break open the cook-room door. To stay their
stomachs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor os the meat,
which they called Breuise; telling them it was for
their own safety that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time; and so feeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men
did very well again. But when they came to the
poor gentlewoman in the cabin, who for several
days had continued without food, giving what she
had to her son, they found her as it were in the
arms of death. She was fitting upon the floor of
the deck, with her back up against the sides, between
two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head
shrunk between her shoulders, like a senseless corpse.
Nothing was wanting in my mate to revive and en-
courage her; opening her lips, and putting some
broth into her mouth with a spoon; but not having
strengths to speak, she lifted up her head with much
dissiculty, intimating that it was now too late! at
the fame time pointing to the youth her son, as
though she desired him to do what he could to save
the lad; and in a little after she died.
The youth indeed was not so far gone, yet lay
stretched out in a cabin-bed, like one that had scarce
any life. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had ate up; at first he vomited
what the mate had given him, but at length began
sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress,
like one in the last pangs of death; her limbs were
distorted, one of her hands was clasped round the
frame of a chair, which she griped so hard, that
it was with some dissiculty we separated her from it;
Her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both together set fast against the frame of the cabin
table; not only being starved with hunger, but over-
come with grief for the loss of her mistress, whom
she loved most tenderly. It was a great while before
the -surgeon ^could bring her to life, aud a much
longer time before she came to her senses.
After we had failed with them some days, we
fent'them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pie-
ces of eight for satisfaction, we left them, but took
the youth and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well-bred, but mightily
cpncerned for,the lose of his honoured mother, hav-
ing, lost his father atBaibadoes but a few months be-
2
sore. He beseeched the surgeon to intercede with
meto take him out of the ship, for that the sailors,
nob sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mother.
But hunger has no bounds, no right, and consequent-
ly istincapable of any-compassion., 'When, the surgeon
told him that our voyage might put him in bad cir-
cumstances, and farther from his friends, he an-
swered he did not care, so he was delivered from ,
that terrible crew; that as the captain (meaning me)
had falved;him from death, so he was. fuse he would,-
do him no harm; and as for the maid:, when she
was restored to her fenses, she wouldr be no less
thankful, let us carry them where we. would. And
indeed the surgeon so represented their case to me,
that I consented, and took them on board,, with all
their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar; but
the youth having a bill of Jading, I made the com-
mander oblige Himself, to deliver a letter and the
deceased widow's goods to Mr. Rogers, a merchant
in-Bristol; butTbelieve-the ship was lost at sea, for-
we could never hear what became os her afterwards.
We were now in the latitude of 19 deg. 42 min.
having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But, passing
by several little incidents.relating to wind and wea-
ther, I shall relate what is more remarkable concern-
ing my little kingdom, to which I was then drawing
near. I had great dissiculty iTDsindiitgr it; for as I
came to, and went from it before, on the south and
east side of theiisland; as coming from theBrasils; so
now approaching between 'the main and the island,
not'having any chart for the coast, nor landrmark,
it obliged us to. go on shore on several islands in the
mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to no purpose.
Thus I. perceived, that what 1-thought was a coq-
tinent before, was no such thirrg, but a long island,
or rather a ridge ossands. throne of these islands
I found some .Spaniards, but they belonged to the
isle dc Trinidad, who came hither in a .sloop to make
salt, and to try to find some pearl mussels. But at
length I came fair on the south side of my island,
and then I presently knew the countenance of my
little kingdom, so we brought the ship safe to an an-
chor, broadside within the little creek, where stood
my ancient and venerable castle. i .
No sooner did I see the placer but calling for Fri-
day, I asked him where he was? but when he look-
ed a little, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joys! O
there! 0 yes'' 0 there.' pointing to our oM abode,
and then fell a dancing and capering as if he was
mad, and I had much ado to keep him from jump-
ing into the sea, to swim ashore. Friday, (said I)
what do you think, shall we go see your father? At
the mentioning his father's name, the poor affection-
ate creature fell a weeping; No, no, (fays he) me fee
him no more, never fee poor father more! he long age
die, die long ago; he much old man. You don't know
that, Friday, (said I) but shall we see any body else i
He looks about, and pointing to the hill above my
house, cries out, We fee, we fee, there much men and
there! which, though I could not perceive them with
my perspective glass, was true, by what the men
themselves told me the next day.
When the English ancient was spread, and three
guns fired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from the creek; upon which I ordered
the boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
out a white slag of truce, 1 went on shore, accom-
panied also by the young friar, to whom 1 had relat-
ed the history of the first part of my life besides
we had sixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met
with any opposition. v t
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the
first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, and whose face I perfectly well knew.
I ordered them all to stay in the boat for a while;
but Friday, perceiving his father at a distance, would
have jumped into the sea, had they not let the boat
go. No sooner was he on shore, but he flew like a
swift arrow out of a bow to embrace his aged fa-
ther. Certainly it would melt a man of the firmest
resolution into the softest tears, to fee with what
uncommon transports of joy he saluted him : He first
kissed him, then stroaked his face, took him in his
arms, laid him under a shady tree, sat down by him,
then looked as earnest at him as one would do at a
picture, for a quarter of an hour together. After
this, he would lie upon the ground, stroak his legs,
and kiss them, then get up and stare at him, as though
he was bewitched: But the next day one could not
Forbear-laughter to fee his behaviour, for he would
walk several hours with his father along the shore,
leading him by the hand, as though he was a lady;
while, every now and then he would run to the boat,
to get something for him, as a lump of sugar, dram,
biscuit, or something or other that was good. His
frolics ran in another channel in the afternoon; for
when he set old Friday on the ground, he would
dance round him, making comical postures and ge-
stures: And all this while would be telling him one
story or other of his travels and adventures.
It was on the 10th of April, anno 1695, that I
set my foot upon the island a second time. When
my faithful Spaniard, accompanied by, one more,
approached the boat, he little knew who I was,, till
I discovered myself to him: Signior, (said I) in Por-
tuguese, do not you know me? He spoke never a
word, but giving his musket to his attendant, ex-
tended his arms, and saying something in Spanish,
that I did not then understand, he came forward
and embraced me, saying, he was inexcusable not
lo know his deliverer, who, like an angel sent from
heaven, had saved his life. He then beckoned to
the man to call out his companions, asking me, if
I would walk to my own habitation, and take posses-
fion, where I should find some mean improvements:
-But indeed they were extraordinary ones; for they
had planted so many trees so close together, that the
place was like a labyrinth, which none could find
out except themselves, who knew its intricate wind-
ings. I asked him the meaning of all these fortifi-
cations; he told me he would give me a large ac-
count of what had passed since my departure to this
'time, and how he subdued some English, who thought
to be their murderers, hoping I would not be dis-
pleafed, since necessity compelled them to it. As
I knew they were wicket! villains, so I told him, that
I was not only far from finding fault with it, but
.was rather heartily glad that they had subdued them.
While we were thus talking, the man whom he had
:sent returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in
such habits that it was impossible to tell what na-
tions they were of. He first turned to me, and,
pointing to them, These Sir, (said he) are some
of the gentlemen who owe their lives to your good-
ness ; then turning to'them, and pointing to me, he
made them sensible who I was: And then indeed
'theyialuted me one by one; not as ordinary men,
but as though they had been ambassadors 01 noble-
men,and l a triumphant conqueror ; for their behavi-
'otir not only agreed with a manlike majestic gravity,
.but dt 'ihe fame'time was so obliging and courteous
.'are Blade them admirable to the last degree.
Before I relate the history, of the transactions of
my kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own
mouth, I must here insert what 1 omitted in my
former relation. The matter is this: Just before
'we weighed anchor to set fail, there happened a
quarrel on board the ship, which had like to have
occasioned a second mutiny, till such time as the
courageous captain taking two of the'most refracto-
ry prisoners, laid them in irons, threatening, as they
were coiicerried in the forrner disorders, tb'have
them hanged in England for running away with the
ship. This frightened some of the rest, as thinking
the captain would serve them in the same manner,
though he seemed to give them good words for the
present. But the mate having intelligence of this,
made me acquainted with their fears; so that, to
make them, more easy, and ourselves more safe from
their conspiracies, I was obliged to go down, and pass
my honour's word for it, that, upon their good beha-
viour, all that was past should be pardoned; in testi-
mony of which I ordered the two mens irons to bs
taken osf, and themselves forgiven. But as this had
brought us to an anchor that night, in which there was
a calm, the two men that had been in irons stole each
of them a musket, and some other weapons, and tak-
ing the ship's pinnace, not yet haled up, ran away to
their brother rogues. The next morning we sent
'the long-boat, with men to pursue them; but -all in
.vain: The mate, in revenge, would have demolished
my little castle, burnt its furniture, and destroyed
their plantations; but having no orders for it, he did
not put it in execution. And thus there were five
Englishmen in the island, which caused great disfer-
ences, as my faithful Spaniard gave me a perfect ac-
count of in the following manner:
"You cannot, Sir, but remember the embassy you
(sent me about, aud what a-difappointment we met
with by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being
blessed with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great
indeed was the joy of my countrymen to see me alive,
t 'having acted as the principal man on board, the cap-
tain of theshipwrecked vessel dying before ; nor was
their surprise less, as knowing I.was taken prisoner by
the savages of another nation, they thought me long
since entombed in their monstrous bowels. But when
I showed them the arms, ammunition, and provi-
sions I had brought'for them, they looked upon me
'as a second Joseph, advanced in PbaroaKs court,
and immediately prepared to come along with me.
Indeed they were obliged to trespass upon their
friendly savages, by borrowing two of their cances,
under a pretext for fishing: And they came away
the next morning, but without any provisions of
their own, except a few roots, which served them
instead of bread. After three weeks absence, we
arrived at your habitation. Here we met with three
English sailors, who, I confess, gave us provisions,
and that letter of direction you had left for us, which
informed us how to bring up tame goats, plant corn,
cure grapes, make pots, and in short, every thing
that was necessary for our use; as, in particular, I
knew your method best, so taking Friday's father to
, assist me, we managed all the affairs; nor were the
rest of the Spaniards wanting in their kind ossices,
dressing food for the Englishmen, who did nothing
but ramble and divert themselves in the woods, either
.shooting parrots, or catching tortoises.. But we had
not been long ashore, before we were informed of
two more Englishmen, unnaturally turned out of
their common place of residence by the three others
above-mentioned: This made my Spaniards and me
(whom they-now looked upon as their governor in
your absence) endeavour to persuade them to4 take
them in, that we might- be as one family; but all
entreaties were in vain, so that the poor fellows,
finding nothing to be done without industry, pitch-
ed their tents on the north side of the island, a little
inclining to the west, for fear of savages. Here they
built two huts, one to lodge, and the other to lay
their stores in; for my good-natured Spaniards giv-
ing them some seeds, they dug and planted as I had
done, and began to live prettily. But while they
were thus comfortably going on, the three unnatural
brutes, their countrymen, in a mere bullying hu-
mour, insulted them, by saying, the governor (mean-
ing you) had given them possession of the island, and
d—mn them, they should build no houses upon their,
ground without paying rent. The two honest men
(for so let me now distinguilh them) thought their
three countrymen only jested, and one of them in-
vited them in, to fee their sine habitations; while
the other facetiously told them, that since they built
tenements, with great improvements, they should,
according to the custom of landlords, give them a
longer lease; at the fame time desiring them to fetch
a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the wretches,
swearing he should pay for the jest, snatches up a
firebrand, and clapping it to the outside of their hut,
very fairly set it on fire, which would soon have con-
sumed it, had not the honest man thrust him away,
and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon the fellow
returns with a pole, with which he would have end-
ed his days, had not the poor man avoided the blow;
when fetching his musket, he knocked down the
villain that began the quarrel. The other two
coming to assist their fellow, obliged the honest man
to take his musket also, and both of them presenting
their pieces, bid the villains stand off; and if they
did not lay down their, arms, death should decide
the dispute one way or other. This brought them
to a parley, in which they agreed to take their
wounded man and be gone; but they were in the
wrong that they did'not disarm them when they had'
the power, and then make their complaint to me and
my Spaniards for justice, which might have prevent-
ed their farther designs against them. And indeed
so many trespasses did they afterwards commit, by
treading down their corn, shooting their young kids
and goats, and plaguing them night and day, that
they resolved to come to my castle, challenge all the
three, and decide their right by one plain battle,
while the Spaniards stood by to fee fair play. One
day it happened, that two of my Spaniards (one of
whom understood English) being in the woods, were
met by one of the honest men, who complained how
barbarous their countrymen had been in destroying
their corn, killing their milk-goats, and three kids,
which deprived them of their subsistence; that if we
did not grant them relief, they must be inevitably
starved; and so they parted: But when my Spaniards
came home at night, and 'supper being on the table,
one of them began to reprehend the Englishmen,
but in a-»jery mannerly way; which they resenting,
replied, what business had their countrymen there
without leave, when it was none of their ground ?-
Why, said my Spaniard, calmly, Inglese, they must
not starve: but they replied, Let them starve and be
d—mr.'d, they should neither plant nor build, and
d—mn them they should be their servants, and work
for them, fer the island was theirs, and they would
burn all the huts they should, find in the land. By
this rule, said' my Spaniard, smiling, we shall be your
servants too. Aye, by G—d, and so you shall, re-
plied the impudent rascal. Upon which, starting up,
Will Aitkins cries, Come Jack, let's have t'other
brush with them, who dare to build in our domi-r
nions? Thus leaving us something heated with just
passion, away they trooped, every man having a gun,
pistol, and sword, muttering some threatening words,
that we could then but imperfectly understand.
That night they designed to murder their two com-
panions, and slept till midnight in the bower, think-
ing to fall upon them in their sleep: Nor were the
honest men less thoughtful concerning them; for at
this juncture they were coming to find them out,
hut in a much fairer way. As soon as the villains
came to the huts, and found no body there, they
concluded that I and my Spaniards had given them,
notice, and therefore swore to be revenged on us.
Then they demolished the poor mens habitations;
not by fire, as they attempted before, but pulled
down their houses, limb from limb, not leaving sticks
nor stone on the ground where they stood; broke
their household stusf in pieces, tore up their trees,
spoiled their inclosures, and, in short, quite rujned
them of every thing, they had. Had these people
met together, no doubt but there would have been a
bloody battle; but Providence ordered it for the bet-
ter; for just as the three were got thither, the two
were at our castle; and when they left us, the three
came back again, but in a great rage, scossingly tell-
ing us what they had done; when one taking hold
of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it round, faying, And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, fiall have the same sauce, if'
you don't mend your manners. My Spaniard, a grave,
but courageous man, knocked htm down with one
blow of his sist; at which another villain sired his
pistol, and narrowly missed his body, but wounded
him a little in the cat. Hereat enraged, the Spa-
niard takes up the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, and would have shot him, if I and,
the rest had not come out and taken their arras
from every one of them.
"The Englishmen, perceiving they, had made all
of us their enemies, began to cool; but notwith-
standing their better words, the Spaniards would
n.ot return them their arms again, telling them,
they would do them no manner of harm, if they
would live peaceably; but if they offered any injury
to the plantation or castle, they would shoot them as
they would do ravenous beasts. This made them so
mad, that they went away raging like furies of hell.
They were no sooner gone, but in came the two
honest men, fired with the jultest rage, if such can
be, haying been ruined as aforesaid. And indeed
it was very hard, that nineteen of us should be bul-
lied by three villains continually offending with im-
punity.
"It was a great while, Sir, before^we could persuade
the two Englishmen from pursuing, and undoubt-'
I 4
edly killing them with their sire arms; but we pro-
mised them justice should be done them, and in the
mean time they should reside with us in our habita-
tion: In about five days after, these three vagrants,
almost starved wish hunger, drew near our grove,
and perceiving me, the governor, and two others,
walking by the tide of the creek, they very submis-
sively desired to be received into the family again.
We told them of their great incivility to us, and of
their unnatural barbarity to their countrymen; but
yet we would fee to what the rest agreed to, and in
half an hour's time would bring them word. After
some debate, we called them in, where their two
countrymen laid a heavy charge against them, for
not only ruining, but designing to murder them,
which they could not deny. But here I was for-
ced to interpose as a mediator, by obliging the
two Englishmen not to hurt them, being naked
and' unarmed; and that the other three should
make them restitution, by building their two huts,
and fencing their ground in the fame manner as-
it was before. Well, being in a miserable con-
dition, they submitted to this at present, and lived
some time regularly enough, except as to the work-
ing part, which they did not care for; but the Spa-
niards would have dispensed with that, had they con-
tinued easy and quiet. Their arms being given them
again, they scarce had them a week when they be-
came as troublesome as ever; but an accident hap-
pening soon after obliged us to lay aside private re-
sentments, and look to our common, preservation.
"One night, Sir, I went to bed, perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could I compose my-
self to sleep: Upon which being very uneasy, I got
up, and looked out; but it being dark, I could per-
ceive nothing but the trees around our castle. I went
to bed again, but it was all one, I could not sleep;
when one of my Spaniards hearing me walk about-,
20t
aflced who it was up? I answered, it is I. When I
told him the occasion, Sir, (said he) such things are
not to be flighted; for certainly there is some mis-
chief plotting near us. Where are the Englishmen?
said I. He answered, in their huts; for they lay
separate from us, Sir, since the last mutiny. Well,
(said I) some kind spirit gives this information for our
advantage. Come let us go abroad, and fee if any
thing offers to justify our fears. Upon which I and
some of my Spaniards went up the mountain, not
by the ladder, but through the grove; and then we
were struck with a panic fear on seeing a light, as-
though it were a fire, at a very little distance, and
hearing the voice of several men. Hereupon we re-
treated immediately, and raising the rest of our
forces, made them sensible of the impending dan-
ger: But, with all my authority, I could not make
them stay where they were, so earnest were they to
see how things went.. Indeed the darkness of the
night gave them opportunity enough to view them
(by the light of their fire) undiscovered. As they
were in different parties, and straggling over the shore,
we were much afraid that they should find out our
habitations, and destroy our flocks of goats; to pre-
vent which, we sent an Englishman and two Spa-
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the
cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the cave it-
self. As to ourselves, resuming our native courage,
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we
durst venture to attack an hundred of them ; but be-
fore it was yet light, we resolved to send out Friday's
father as a spy, who immediately stripped himself
naked, gets among them undiscovered, and in two
hours time brings word, that they were two parties
of two different nations, who lately having a bloody
battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance in the fame island, to devour their miserable-
prisoners >. that they were. entirely ignorant of any
I 5
person's inhabiting here ; but rather being filled witk
rage and fury against one another, he believed that
as soon as day-light appeared, there would be a ter-
rible engagement. Old Friday had scarce ended his
relation when we heard an uncommon noise, and
perceived that there was a horrid engagement between
the two armies.
"Such was the curiofity of our party, especially
the Englishmen, that they would not lie close, though
Old Friday told them their safety depended upon it;
and that if we had patience, we should behold the
savages kill one another. However, they used some
cautbn, by going further into the woods, and place-
ing themselves in a convenient place to behold the
battle.
"Never could there be a more bloody engage-
ment, nor men of more invincible spirits and prudent
eonduct, according to their way and manner of fight-
ing. It lasted near two hours, till that party which
was nearest to our castle began to decline, and at
last to fly from their conquerors. We were undoubt-
edly put into a great consternation on this account,
lest they should run into our grove, and consequent-
ly bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we re-
solved to kill the sirst that came, to prevent discove-
ry, and that too with our swords, and the butt ends
of our muflcets, for fear the report of our guns should
be heard.
"And so indeed, as we thought, it happened : For
three of the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood, for shelter;
nor was it long before our scout gave us notice of
it; as also, that the victors did not think fit to pur-
sue them. Upon this I would not suffer them to be
slain-, but had them surprised and taken by our party:
And afterwards they proved very good servants to
us, being stout young creatures, and able to do a
great deal of work. The remainder of t]ie conquer,*
ed savages fled tp their canoes, and put out into the
ocean, while the conquerors joining together, shout-
ed by way of triumph, and about three in the after-
noon they also embarked for their own nation. Thus
we were freed at once from the savages and our fears,,
hot perceiving any of these creatures for some consi-
derable time after. We found two-and-thirty men
dead in the field of battle; some were slain with long
arrows, which we found sticking in their bodies; and
the resst were killed with great unwieldy wooden
swords, which denoted their vast strength, and of
which we found seventeen, besides bows and arrows;
but we could not find one wounded creature among
them alive; for they either kill their enemies quite,
pr carry those wounded away with them.
"This terrible sight tamed the Engltfhmen for
some time, considering how unfortunate they might
have been, had they fallen into their hands, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but also for
food, as we do cattle; and indeed so much did thia
nauseate their stomachs, that it not only made them
yery sick, but more tractable to the common neces-
sary business of the whole society, planting, sowing,
and reaping with the greatest signs of amity and
friendship; so that being now all good friends, we
began to consider of circumstances in general; and
the first thing we thought of was, whether, as we
perceived the savages haunted that side of the island,,
and there being more retired parts of it, and yet as,
well suited to our manner of living, and equally to
our advantage, we ought not rather to move our place
of residence, and plant it in a much safer place, both
for the security of our corn and cattle.
"After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,;
or rather voted nemine contradicente, not to remove
our ancient castle, and that for this very good reason,
that some, tunic -or other we expected to hear frorn,
qur supreme governor (meaning you Sir), whosie.
16. , -
messengers not finding us there, might think the
place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed by
the savages.
"As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the
valley where the cave was, that being most proper
and sussicient for both. But yet, when we consi-
dered further, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle hither, and;
plant only part of our corn there: So that in cafe
one p irt was destroyed, the other might be preserv-
ed. Another resolution we took, which really had
a great deal of prudence in if, and that was, in not
trusting the three savages whom we had taken pri-
soners, with any knowledge of the plantations which
we had made in the valley, of what number of cat-
tle we had there, much less of the cave, wherein we
kept several arms, and two barrels of powder you
left for us at your departure from this island. But
though we would not change our habitation, we re-
solved to make it more fortified and more secret. To
this end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some dis-
tance before the entrance of your palace; so we, im-
itating your example, planted and filled up the whole
space of ground, even to the banks of the creek, nay,,
into the very ooze, where the tide flowed, not leav-
ing a place for landing, and among those I had plant-
ed, they had intermingled so many short ones, all of
which growing wonderfully fast and thick, a little
dog scarcely could find a passage through them. Nor
was this sufficient, as we thought; for we did the
fame to all the ground, to the right and left hand of
us, eVen to the top of the hill, without so much as
leaving a passage for ourselves except by the ladder:
Which being taken down, nothing but what had
wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near us.
And indeed this was exceedingly well contrived,
especially to serve that occasion for which we after-
wards found it necessary.
"Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
having all this time not one visit from the savages.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
in some amazement; for a few of my Spaniards be-
ing out very early, perceived no lesslthan twenty ca-
noes, as it were coming on shore; upon which, re-
turning home with great precipitation, they gave us
the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all that
day and the next, going out only in the night-time to
make our observation r But as good luck would have
it, they were upon another design, and did not land
that time upon the island.
"But now there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spa-
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend some-
thing which he was showing him, snatched up a
hatchet in great fury, not to correct but to kill him;
yet missing his head, gave him such a barbarous cut
in the shoulder, that he had like to have struck off
his arm ; at which' one of my good-natured Spaniards
interposed between the Englishman and savage, be-
seeching the former not to murder the poor creature;
but this kindness had like to have cost the Spaniard
his life, for the Englishman struck at him in the
same manner, which he nimbly and wisely avoiding,
returned suddenly upon him with his shovel, (being
all at work upon their corn-land), and very fairly
knocked the brutish creature down. Hereupon ano-
ther Englishman, coming to his sellow's assistance,
laid the good Spaniard on the earth; when immedi-
ately two others coming to his relief, were attack-
ed by the third Englishman, armed with an old cut-
lass, who wounded them both. This uproar soon
reached our ears, when we rushing out upon them,
took the three Englishmen prisoners; and then our
next question was, what should be done to such mu-
tinous and impudent fellows, so furious, desperate,
and idle, that they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and consequently not safe for the society to
let them live among them.
"Now, Sir, as I was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority of a judge ; and having them
brought before me, I told them, that if they had been
of my country, I would have hanged every mother's
son of. them; but since it was an Englishman (mean-
ing you, kind Sir), to whom we were indebted for
our preservation, and deliverance, I would in grati-
tude use them with all possible mildness; but at the
fame time leaving them to the judgment of the twa
other Englishmen, who, I hoped, forgetting their re-
sentments, would deal impartially by them.
"Hereupon one of their countrymen stood up;
Sir, (said he) leave it not to us, for you may besensible we
have reason to sentence them to the gallows : Besides, Sir,
this fellow, Will Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your sleep, which
tpe would tuft consent to; but knowing their inability,
and your vigilance, we did not think fit to discover it be-
fore now.
"How Seignior, (said I) do you hear what is alle-
ged against you? What can you fay to justify so horrid,
an action, as to murder us in cold blood? Sp far,
Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he swore,
d-rm-inn .him but he would do it still. But what have
we done to you, Seignior Atkins, (said I) or what
will you gain by killing us ? What shall we do to pre-
vent you? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why
will you, Seignior Atkins, (said I, smiling) put us to
such an unhappy dilemma, such a fatal necessity ? But
so great a rage did my scossing, and yet severe jest,
put him into, that he was going to fly at me, and un-
doubtedly had attempted to kill me if he had been
possessed of weapons, and had not been prevented by
three Spaniards. This unparaJJelled and vjJdanpug
carriage made us seriously consider what was to be
done. The two Englishmen and the Spaniard, who
had saved the poor Indian's life, mightily petitioned
rae to hang one of them, for an example to the
others, which should be him that had twice attempt-
ed to commit murder with his hatchet, it being at
that time thought impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they eould never gain my consent to
put him to death, for the reasons above-mentioned,
since it was an Englishman, (even yourself) who was
my deliverer ; and as merciful counsels are most pre-
vailing, when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be
of the same opinion as to clemency. But to prevent
their doing us any further mischief, we all agreed,
that they ihould hare no weapons, as sword, gun,
powder, or shot, but be expelled from the society, to
live as they pleased by themselves; that neither the
two Englishmen, nor the red of the Spaniards, should
have conversation with them upon any account what*
soever i that they should be kept from coming with-
in a certain distance of our castle; and if they dared
to offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning,
killing,"'Qr destroying any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society,
we would shoot them as freely as we would do beast*
of prey', in whatsoever places we should find them.
This sentence seemed very just to all-but them-
selves; when like a merciful judge, I called out to
thb two honest Englishmen, saying, You must con-
sider they ought hot to be starved neither; and since
it will be some time before they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, let us give them some corn to last
them reighr-aionths, and. for feed to sow, by which
time they will raise some for themselves : Let us also
bestow upon them six milk-goats, four he-ones, and
fix kids, as well for theiriprefent support, as for a
further increase ; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatchets, an axe, saw, and other things convenient:
to build them huts: All which were agreed to; but
before they took them in possession, I obliged them
solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing against
us or their countrymen for the future. Thus dis-
missing them from our society, they went away, sul-
len and refractory, as though neither willing to go
nor stay: However, seeing no remedy, they took what
provision was given them, proposing to choose a con-
venient place, where they might live by themselves-
"About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out an habitation and plantation, at the N. E.
and most remote part of the island. And indeed
there they built themselves two very handsome cot-
tages, resembling our little castle, being under the
side of a mountain, with some trees already growing
on three sides of it, so that by planting a few more
it would be obscured from sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we
gave them some dry goat-skins for bedding 9nd co-
vering; and upon their giving us fuller assurances
of their good behaviour for the future, we gave them
some pease, barley, and rice for sowing, and what-
ever tools we could spare.
"Six months did they live in this separate condi-
tion, in which they got their first harvest in, the-
quantity of which was but small, because they had
planted but little land : For indeed, all their plant-
ations being to form, made it the more difficult,
especially as it was a thing out of their element: And
when they were obliged to make their boards and
pots, &c. they could make little or nothing of it.
But the rainy season coming on, put them into a
greater perplexity for want of a cave to keep their
i
209
corn dry, and prevent it from spoiling; and so much
did this humble them, that they begged of my Spa-
niards to help them, to which the good-natured men
readily consented, and in four days space worked a
great hole in the side of the hill for them, large
enough for their purpose, to secure their corn and
other things from the rain, though not comparable
to curs, which had several additional apartments.
"But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year after, which had like to have ruin-
ed us and themselves too: For it seems, being tired
and weary of this fort of living, which made them
work for themselves, without hopes of changing
their condition, nothing would serve them, but they
would make a voyage to the continent, and try if
they could seize upon some of the savages, and bring
them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, white
they lived at ease and pleasure.
"Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone farther ; but they neither did, nor pro-
posed any thing, but what had mischief in the design,
or the event. One morning these three fellows came
down to the limited station, and humbly desired to
be admitted to talk with us; which we readily
granted: They told us, in short, that being tired of
their manner of living, and the labour of their hands,
in such employments, not being sussicient to procure
the necessaries of life, they only desired one of the
canoes we came over in, with some arms and ammu-
nition, for their defence, and they would seek their
fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more.
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid of such
wretched plagues; but yet honesty made us inge-
nuously represent to them, by what we ourselves had'
suffered, the certain destruction they were running
into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously replied,
that they neither could nor would work; and con-
ROBINSON CRCSOE.
scquently, that they might as well be starved abroad
as at home: And as to their falling into the hands
of the savages, why, if they were .murdered, that
was nothing to us, there was an end of them, nei-
ther had they any wives or children to cry after
them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone
without them.
"Though we could not well spare our fire-arms,
rather than they should go like naked men, we let
them have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three
hatchets, which were thought very sufficient; wc-
gave them also goats flesh, a great basket full of dried
grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid,
and a large canoe sussicient to carry twenty men.
And thus,, with a mast made of a long pole, and a
fail of fix large goats skins dried, having a fair breeze,
and a flood tide with them, th«y merrily sailed away,
the Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to fee them more.
"When they were gone, the Spaniards and Eng-
lishmen would often say one to another, 0 how
peaceable do we live, since those turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be farther from their thoughts
than to behold their faces any more; and yet scarce
two-and-twenty days had passed over their heads, but
one of the Englishmen, being abroad a-p!anting,
perceived at a distance three men well armed ap-
proaching towards him. Away he flies with speed
to our castle, and tells me and the rest, that we were
all undone, for that strangers were landed upon the.
island, and who they were he could not tell; but
added, that they were not savages, but men, habited
bearing arms. Why, then, (said I) we have the less oc-
casion to be concerned, since, if they are not Indians,
they must be friends -, for I am sure there is no Chri-
stian people upon earth bus what wili da us goad
rather than harm. But while we were considering
of the event, up came the three Englishmen, whose
voices we quickly knew, and so all our admiration
of that nature ceased at once. And our wonder
was succeeded by another sort of inquiry, which was,
what could be the occasionof their returning so quick-
ly to the island, when we little expected, and much
less desired their company? But as this was better to
be related by themselves, I ordered them to be
brought in, when they gave me the following ac-
count of their voyage:
"After two days fail, orfomething less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to give
them another sort of reception than what they ex-
pected or desired: For as the savages were armed
with bows and arrows, they durst not venture on
shore, but steered northward, six or seven hours,
till they gained an opening, by which they plainly
perceived, that the land that appeared from this place
was not the main land, but an island. At their en-
trance into the opening of the sea, they discovered
another island, on the right-hand northward, and
several more lying to the westward; but being re-
solved to go on shore somewhere or other, they put
over to one of the western isl.inds. Here they found
the natives very courteous to them, giving them se-
veral roots and dried fish; nay, even their women
too were as willing to supply them with what they
could procure them to eat, bringing it a great way
to them upon their heads. Among these hospitable
Indians they continued some days inquiring by signs
and tokens, what nations lay around them; and'
were informed, that there were several fierce and ter-
rible people lived every way, accustomed to eat man-
kind: But for themselves, they never used such diet,
except those that were taken in battle, and of them
they made a solemn feast.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
"The Englishmen inquired how long it was since
»hey had a feast of that kind? They answered, about
two moons ago, pointing; to the moon, and then to
two fingers; that, at this time, their king had two
hundred prisoners, which were fattening up for the
slaughter. The Englishmen were mighty desirous of
seeing the prisoners, which the others mistaking,
thought they wanted some of them for their own
food : Upon which they beckoned to< them, pointing
to the rising, and then to the setting of the sun; mean-
ing, that by the time it appeared in the east next
morning, they would bring them some: And indeed
they were as good as their word; for by that time
they brought eleven men and five women, just as so
many cows and oxen are brought to sea-port towns
to victual a ship. But as brutish as these Englishmen
were, their stomachs turned at the sight. What to
do in this case they could not tell: To refuse the
prisoners, would have been the highest affront offer-
ed to the savage gentry; and to dispose of them,
they knew not in what manner: However, they re-
solved to accept them, and so gave them in return
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets; things which though they
were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely con-
tented with; and dragging the poor wretches into
the boat, with their hands bound behind them, de-
livered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put off as soon as they had these presents,
lest the donors should have expected two or three os
them to be killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next day: And so taking leave with all possible re-
spect and thanks, though neither of them understood
what the other said, they sailed away back to the first
island, and there set eight of the prisoners at liberty.
In their voyage they endeavoured to comfort, and
have some conversation with the poor captives; but
it was impossible to make them sensible of any thing;
and nothing they could fay, or give, or do for them,
could make them otherwise [persuaded, but that they
.were unbound ordy to be devoured: If they gave
them any food, they thought- it was only to fatten
them for the slaughter;-; or looked at any one more
particularly, the poor creature supposed itself to be
the sirst sacrifice: And even when we brought them
to our island, and began to use them with the great-
est humanity and kindness, yet they expected every
day that their new masters would devour them.
"And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voyage,
which was both amazing and entertaining. Here-
upon I alked them, where their new family was?
They told me, they had put them into one of their
huts, and they came to beg some victuals for them.
This, indeed, made us all long to fee them; and so
taking Friday's father with us, leaving only two at
our castle, we came down to behold these poor crea-
tures.
"When we arrived at the hut (they being bound
again by the Englishmen, for fear of escaping), we
found them stark naked, expecting their fatal tra-
gedy : There were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and fair limbs, between thirty and five-and-
thirty years old ; and five women, two of them might
be from thirty to forty, two more not above four*
and-twenty; and the last a comely tall maiden of a-
bout seventeen. Indeed, all the women were very
agreeable, both in their proportion and features, ex-
. cept that they were tawny, which their modest be-
haviour and other graces made amends for, when
they afterwards came to be clothed.
. "This naked appearance together with their mi-
serable circumstances, was no very comfortable sight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without slattery, to fay, are men of the
best behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest nature,
that can possibly be; for they immediately ordered
Friday's father to fee if he knew any of them, or
if he understood what they could fay. No sooner
did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one woman.
This was enough to answer'the design, which was
to assure them they would not be killed, being fallen
into the hands of Christians, who abhorred such
barbarity. When they were fulljr satisfied of this,
they expressed their joy, by such strange gestures,
and uncommon tones, as it is not possible for me
to describe. But the woman, their interpreter, was
ordered next to inquire, whether they were content
to be servants, and would work for the men who
had brought them hither to save their lives? Here-
upon (being at this time unbound) they fell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
shoulders, and the other that, intimating, that
they were willing to do any thing for them. But
now, Sir, having women among us, and dreading
that it might occasion some strife,'if not blood* I
asked the three 'men what they would do, dnd how
they intended to use these creatures, whether as
servants or women? One of them very pertly and
readily answered, they would use them as both.
.Gentlemen, (said I) as you are your own masters, I
mi not going to restrain you from that; but, me-
thinks, for avoiding dissention among you, I would
only desire you to engage, that none of you will-
take more than one for a woman or a wife, and that
having taken this one, none else should presume to
touch her; for though we have not a priestly au-
thority to marry you, yet it is reasonable, that who-
ever thus takes a woman, should be obliged to main-
tain her, since nobody else has any thing to do with
her: And this indeed -appeared so just to all present,
2
that it was unanimously agreed to. The Englishmen
then asked my Spaniards, whether they designed to
take any of them? but they all answered, No ; some
declaring they had already wives in Spain; and others,
that they cared not to join with infidels. On the
reverse, the Englishmen took each of them a tem-
porary wife, and so set up a new method of living.
As to Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three
favage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our ancient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the island with food,
as necessity required. But the most remarkable
,part of the story is, how these Englishmen, who had
been so much at variance, should agree about the
choice of these women; yet they took a way good
enough to prevent quarrelling among themselves.
They set'the five women in one of their huts, and
going themselves to the other, drew lots which
should have the first choice. Now, he that had
the first lot went to the hut, and fetched out her he
chose, and it is remarkable, that he took her that was
the most homely and eldest of thenumber, which made
the rest of the Englishmen exceeding merry. The
Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it: But
as it happened, the fellow had the best thought, in
choosing one sit for application and business ; and in-
deed she proved the best wife of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures:perceived themselve«
placed in a row, and separated one from one, they
were again seized with an unspeakable terror, as now
thinking they were going to be slain in earnest: And
when the Englissiman came to take the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, clapped their arms around
her neck, and hanging about her, took their last fare-
well, as they thought, in such trembling agonies,
and affectionate embraces, as would have softened
the'hafdest heart in the world, and made the dryest
eyes melt into tears; nor could they be persuaded
but that they were going to die, till such time as
Friday's father made them sensible that the English-
men had chosen them for their wives, which ended
all their terror and concern upon this occasion.
"Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work,
and being assisted by my good-natured Spaniards, in
a few hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their separate lodging, since those
they had already were filled with tools, household-
stuff, and provision. They all continued on the north
shore of the island, but separate as before; the three
wicked ones pitching farther off, and the two honest
men nearer our castle; so that the island seemed to
be peopled in three places, three towns beginning
to be built for that purpose. And here I cannot but
remark, what is very common, that the two honest
men had the worst wives (I mean as to industry, t
.cleanliness, and ingenuity), while the three repro-
bates enjoyed women of quite contrary qualities.
"But another observation I made was, in favour of
the two honest men, to show what disparity there
is between a diligent application to business on the
one hand, and a slothful, negligent, and idle tem-
per, on the other. Both of them had the fame par-
cel of ground laid out, and corn to low, sussicient
for them ; but both did not make the some improve-
ments, either in their cultivation or in their planting.
"The two honest men had a multitude of young
trees planted about their habitations, so that when you
approached near them, nothing appeared but a wood,
very pleasing and delightful. Every thing they did
prospered and flourished; their grapes planted in
order, seemed as though managed in a vineyard, and
were infinitely preferable to any of the others. Nor
were they wanting to find out a place of retreat,
but dug a cave in the most retired part of a thick
wood, to secure their wives and children, with thiir
provision and chiefest goods, surrounded with in-
numerable stakes, and having a most subtle entrance,
in case any mischief should happen either from their
fellow-countrymen, or the devouring savages.
"As to the reprobates (though I must own they
.were much more civilized than before), instead of a
delightful wood surrounding their dwelling, we sound
the words of King Solomon too truly verified; I went
by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown
with thorns. In many places their crop was obscured
with weeds; the hedges having several gaps in them,
the wild goats had got in, and eaten up the corn,
-and here and there was a dead bush, to stop in those
gaps for the present, which was no more than shut-
ting the stable-door after the steed was stolen away.
But as to their wives, they (as I observed before)
.were more diligent, and cleanly enough, especially
in their victuals, being instructed by one of the honest
men, who had been a cook's mate on board a ship:
And very well it was so; for as he cooked himself,
his companions and their families lived as well as
the idle husbands, who did nothing but Joker about,
fetch turtles eggs, catch fish and birds, and do any
thing but work, and lived accordingly, while the
diligent lived very handsomely and plentifully, in
the most comfortable manner. And now, Sir, I
come to lay before your eyes a scene quite different
from any thing that ever happened us before, and
perhaps ever befel you in all the time of your re-
sidence on this island. I shall inform you of its ori-
ginal in the following manner:
"One morning, Sir, very early, there came five
or six canoes of Indians on ihore, indisputably upon
their old custom,of devouring their prisoners. All
that we had to do upon such an occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they,- not' having any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quietly, after performing
their bloody execution: Whoever first discovered
the savages, was to give notice to all the three plant-
ations to keep within doors, and then a proper scout
was to be placed to give intelligence of their de-
parture. But, notwithstanding these wise measures,
an unhappy disaster discovered us to the savages,
which was like to have caused the desolation of the
whole island: For aster the savages gere gone oft'
in their canoes, some of my Spaniards and 1 looking
abroad, and being inflamed with a curiosity to see
-what they had been doing, to our great amazement,
beheld three savages fast asleep on the ground, who,
either being gorged, could not awake when the
others went off, or having wandered too far into
the woods, did not come back in time.
"What to do with them at first we could not tell;
as for slaves, we had enough, of them already 4 and
as to kill them, neither Christianity nor humanity
would suffer us to shed the blood of persons who
never did us wrong. We perceived they had no
boat left them to transport them to their own nation;
and that by letting them wander about, they might
discover vis, and inform the first savages that should
happen to land upon the same bloody occasion, which
information might entirely ruin. ut 'r and therefore
I counselled my Spaniards to secure them, and set
them about some work or other, till we could better
dispose of them.
"Hereupon we all went back, and making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, especially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased' them, of their fear as to
that point. We first took them to the bower where
the chief of our country-work lay, as keeping goats,
planting corn, &c.; and then carried, them to the
two Englishmens habitation, to help them in their
business; but happy it was for us all we did not
carry them to our castle> as1-by the sequel will ap-
pear. The Englishmen indeed found them wo k to
do ; but whether they did not guard them strictly,
or that they thought they could not better them-
selves, I cannot tell; but certainly one of them ran-
away into the woods, and they could not hear of
him for a long time after. ,
"Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the savages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going osf in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Sir,
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
how few and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers; and we expected it would not be long be-
fore the Englishmen would be attacked in their
habitations; but the savages had not seen their
places of safety in the woods, nor our castle, which
it was a great happiness they did not know.
"Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion; for about eight months after this, six ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came fail-
ing by the north side of the island, which they neves
were accustomed to before, and landing about art
hour after fun-rife, near a mile from the dwelling
of the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the good
fortune to discover them about a league off:. So that
it was an hour before they could attain the shore,
and some longer time before they could come at
them. And now being confirmed in this opinion*
that they were certainly betrayed, they immediately
bound the two slaves which were left, causing two
of the three men, whom they brought with the wo-
men, and who proved very faithful, to lead them
with their wives, and other conveniencies, into their
retired cave in the wood, and there to bind the two
fellows hand and foot, till they had further orders.
They then opened their fences, where they kept their
milk goats, and drove them all out, giving the goats
liberty to ramble in the woods, to mate the savages
believe that they were wild ones; but the slave had
given a truer information, which made them come
to the very inclosures. The two frighted men sent
the other slave of the three who had been with them
by accident to alarm the Spaniards, and desire their
assistance; in the mean time, they took their arms
and ammunition, and made to the cave, where they
had sent their wives, and securing their slaves, seated
themselves in a private place, from whence they might
behold all the actions of the savages. Nor had they
gone far, when ascending a rising ground, they could
see a little army of Indians approaching to their beau-
tiful dwelling, and, a little after, perceive the fame,
and their furniture, to their unspeakable grief, burning
in a consuming slame: And when this was done, they
spread here and there, searching every bush and
place for the people, of whom, it was evident, they
had information. Upon which the two Englishmen,
not thinking themselves secure where they stood, re-
treated about half a mile higher in the country, right-
ly concluding, that the farther the savages strolled,
there would be lesser numbers together: Upon which
the next took their stand by the trunk of an old
tree, very hollow and; large, whence they resolv-
ed to see what would offer: But they had not
stood long there before two savages came run-
ning directly towards them, as though having know-
ledge of their being there, who seemed resolved
to attack them; a little sarther were three more,
and five more behind them again, all running the
'same way. It cannot be imagined what perplexity
the poor men were in at this light, thinking, that if
assistance did not speedily come, their cave in the
wood would be discovered, and consequently all there-
in lost: So they resolved to resist them there; and
when overpowered, to ascend to the top of the trees,
where they might defend themselves as long as their
ammunition lasted, ,and fell their lives as dear as
possible to those devouring savages. Thus fixed in
their resolution, they next considered, whether they
should fire at the sirst two, or wait for the three,
and so take the middle party, by which the two first:
and the five last would be separated. In this regu-
lation the two savages also confirmed them, by turn-
ing a little to another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came directly towards the
tree. Hereupon they resolved to take them in a di-
rect line, as they approached nearer, because per-
haps the first shot might hit them all three ; and up-
on this occasion, the man who was to sire, charged
his piece with three or four bullets. And thus, while
they were waiting, the savages came on ; one of them
was the runaway, who had caused all the mischief;
so they resolved he should not escape, if they
both fired at once. But however, though they did
not fire together, they were ready charged; when
the first that let sly was too good a marksman to
miss his aim; for he killed the foremost outright,
the second (who was the runaway Indian), fell on
the ground, being shot through the body, but not
dead, and the third was a little wounded on the
shoulder, who, sitting down on the ground, fell a
screaming in a most fearful manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes from one side to another, but raised the
birds of all forts, fluttering with the most confused
noise, so much terrified the five savages behind, that
they stood still at first, like so many inanimate ima-
ges: But when all things were in profound siletuce,
they came to the place where their companions lay;
and these, being not sensible that they were liable
to the same fate, stood over the wounded man, un-
doubtedly inquiring the occasion of this sad calamity;
and it is reasonable to suppose, he told them, that
it came by thunder and lightning from the gods, hav-
ing never seen nor heard of a gun before in the
whole course of their lives. By this time, the Eng,-
K. ,
lishmen having loaded their pieces, fired both to-
gether a second time, when seeing them all fall im-
mediately upon the ground, they thought they had
killed every creature of them. This made them
come up boldly before they had charged their guns,
which indeed was a wrong step ; for when they came
to the place, they found iour alive, two of them ve-
ry little wounded, and one not at all, which obligecY-
them to fall upon them with their muskets: They
first knocked the runaway savage on the head, and
another that was but a little wounded in the arm, and
then put the other languishing wretches out of their
pain; while he that was not hurt, with bending
lmees, and uplifted hands, made piteous moans, and
signs to them to spare his life : Nor indeed were they
unmerciful to the poor wretches, but pointed to them
to sit down at the root of a tree hard by and then one
of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine he
had in his pocket by mere chance, tying his two
feet together, and his two hands behind him, the*
left him there, making all the haste they could af-
ter the other two, fearing they should find out their
cave: But though they could not Overtake them,
they had the fatisfaction to perceive them, at a di-
stance, cross a valley towards the sea, a quite con-
trary way to their retreat; upon whichfthey return-
ed to the tree, to look after their prisoner ; but when,
(hey came there he was gone, leaving the piece of
rope-yarn wherewith he was bound behind him.
"Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers: Immediately they repaired to their
Cave, to fee if all was well there, and found every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted
upon their husbands account, whom now they loved
entirely. They had not been long here, before se-
ven of my Spaniards came to assist them; while the
other ten, their servants, and Friday's father, were
gone to defend their bewer, corn, and cattle, in cafe
the savages should have rambled so far. There ac-
companied the seven Spaniards, one of the three sa-
vages that had formerly been taken prisoners, and
with them also that very Indian whom the English-
men had a little before left under the tree; for it
seems they passed by that way where the slaughter
was made, and so carried along with them that poor
wretch that was left bound. But so many prisoners
now becoming a burden to us, and fearing the dread-
ful consequence of their escaping, most of the Spa-,
niardt and English urged the absolute necessity there
.was of killing them for our common preservation:
But, Sir, the authority I bore as a governor overruled
that piece of cruelty ; and then I ordered them to be
sent prisoners to the old cave in the valley, bound
hands and feet, with two Spaniards to guard them.
*' So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habita-
tions, that they had not patience to stay any longer;
but, taking five Spaniards along with them, armed
with four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-staff, a-
way they went in pursuit of their enemies. As they
passed by the place where the savages were slain, it
was veiy easy to be perceived that more of them had
been there, having attempted to carry off their dead
bodies, but found it impracticable. From a rising
ground, our party had the mortification to see the
smoke that proceeded from the ruins; when coming
farther in fight of the shore, they plainly perceived
that the savages had embarked in their canoes, and
were putting out to sea. This they were very sorry
for, there being no coming at them to give them a
parting salute; but, however, they were glad enough
to get clear of such unwelcome guests.
"Thus the two honest, but unfortunate English-
men, being ruined a second time, and their im-
provements quite destroyed, most of my good natured
&4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Spaniards helped ihem to rebuild, and we all assist-
ed them with needful supplies; nay,, what is more
remarkable, their three mischievous countrymen,
when they heard it (which-was after all these disas-
ters were over, they living remote eastward), very
friendly sympathised with them, and worked for
them severardays: So that in a little time their ha-
bitation was rebuilt, their necessities supplied, and
themselves restored to their former tranquillity.
"Though the savages had nothing to boast of in
this adventure (several canoes being driven ashore, fol-
lowed by two drowned creatures, having undoubted-
ly met with a storm at sea that very night they dei
parted), yet it was natural to be supposed, that those,
whose better fortune it was to attain their native
shore, would inslame their nation to another ruinous
attempt, with a greater force, to carry all before
them. And indeed so it happened; for, about se-
ven months, after, our island was invaded with a most
formidable navy, no less than eight.and-twenty ca-
noes full of favages, armed with wooden, swords,
monstrous clubs, bows and arrows, and such like
instruments of war, landing at the east side of the
island. You may well,. Sir, imagine, what conster-
nation our men were in upon this account, and how
speedily they were to execute their resolution, having
only that night's time allowed them. They knew
that since they could not withstand their enemies,
concealment was the only way to procure their safe-
ty: And therefore they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their flock
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to
the old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance
of inhabitants as possible; and then posted them-
selves, with all their force, at the plantation of the
two men. As they expected, so it happened; for
early the next morning, the Indians, leaving their
canoes at the east end of the island, came running
along the shore, about two hundred and fifty in num.
ber as near as could be guessed. Our army was but
little indeed ; and what was our greatest; misfortune,
we had no arms sussicient for them. The account,
as to the men, Sir, is as follows :-
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
I Old Friday.
3 The three savages
taken with the wo-
men, who proved
faithful servants.
3 Other slaves, living
with the Spaniards.
ii Muskets.
S Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
5 Muskets, or-fowling-
pieces , taken from the
sailors whom you re-
duced*
As to our slaves, we gave three of them halberts, and
the other three long staves, with great iron spikes at
the end of them, with hatchets by their sides: We
also had hatchets sticking in our girdles, besides the
fire-arms; nay, two of the women, inspired with
Amazonian fortitude, could not be dissuaded from
fighting along with their dearest husbands, and if
they died, to die with them. Seeing their resolution,
we gave them hatchets likewise; but what pleased
them best, were the bows and arrows (which they
dexterously knew how to use) that the Indians had
left behind them, after their memorable battle one
against another.
"Over this army, which, though little, was of
great intrepidity, I was constituted chief general and
commander; and knowing Will Atkins, though ex-
ceeding wicked, yet a man of invincible courage,-1
gave him the power of commanding under me: He
and fix men, with their mulkets loaded, with six or
seven bullets a-piece, were planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, having
orders to let the first pass by ;, and then, when, he
K5
tz6
nOBINSON CRUSOB.
fired into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat
round part of the wood, and so come to the rear
of the Spaniards, who were shaded by the thicket
of trees; for though the savages came on with the
fierceness of lions, yet they wanted the subtitty of
foxes, being out of all manner of order, and strag-
gling in heaps every way: And indeed when Will
Atkins, after fifty of the savages had passed by, had-
ordered three of his men to give fire, so great was
their consternation, to fee so many men killed and
wounded, and hear such a dreadful noise, and yet
not know whence it came, that they were frightened
to the highest degree; and when the second volley
Was given, they concluded no less but that their
companions were slain by thunder and lightning from
heaven. In this notion they would have continued,
had Will Atkins and his men retired as soon as
they sired, according to order; or had the rest been
near them, to pour in their shot continually, there
miglit have been a complete victory obtained; but »
staying to load their pieces again, discovered the
whole matter. They were perceived by some of the
scattering savages at a distance, who let fly their
arrows among them, wounded Atkins himself and
killed his fellow Englishman, and one of the Indians
taken with the women. Our party did not fail to
answer them, and in their retreat killed about twenty
savages. Here I cannot but take notice of our
poor dying slave, who, though stopped from his re-
treat by a fatal arrow, yet with his slass and hatchet
desperately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and
killed five of the savages, before his life submitted
to a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or
malice of the Indians to be less remarked, in break-
ing the arms, legs, and heads of the two dead bodies
with their clubs and wooden swords, after a most
wretched manner. As Atkins retreated, our party
advanced, to interpose between him and the savages:
»
but after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat
also: For they were so numerous and desperate, th it
they came up to our very teeth, shot their arrows
like a cloud, and their wounded men, enraged with
cruel pain, fought,' like madmen. They did not,
however, think tit to follow us, but drawing them-
selves up in a circle, they gave two triumphant shouts
in token of victory, though they had the grief to fee
several of their wounded men bleed to death before
them.
"After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army to-
gether upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as
he was, would have had us attack the whole body
of the savages at once. I was extremely well pleased
.with the gallantry of the man; but upon considera-
tion I replied, Youperceive, Seignior Atkins, how their
wounded men fight; let them alone till morning, when
they will bes>int? sliff, and /ore, and then we Jhall havt
fewer to combab'w[ith. To w-hich Will Atkins, smiling
replied, That's very true . Seignior, and so sb.ill I too;
and that's the reason I would sight them now I am
warm. We all answered, Seignior Atkins, for your
part, you have behaved very gallantly; and if you
are not able to-approach the enemy in the morning
we will fight for you; till-fhen we think it'eonve-
nient to wait; and so we tarried.
"By the brightness of the moon that night, we
perceived the savages in great disorder about their
dead and wounded men. This made us change our
resolution, and resolve to fall upon them in the nighty
if we could give them one volley undiscovered.
This we had a fair opportunity to do, by one of the
two Englishmen's leading us round, between the
-woods and the sea-side westward, and turning short
south, came privately to a place where the thickest
of them were. Unheard and unperceived, eight
of us sired among them, and did dreadful execution';
and in half a minute after, eight more os us let fly!,,
K<5
killing and wounding abundance of them; and then
dividing ourselves into three bodies, eight persons in
each body, we marched from among the trees to the
very teeth of the enemy, sending foith the greatest
shouts and acclamations. The savages hearing a dif-
ferent noise from three quarters at once, stood in the
utmost confusion; but coming in sight of us, let fly
a volley of arrows, which wounded poor Old Friday,
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not
however give them a second opportunity, but rushing
in among them, we sired three feveral ways, and then
fell to work with our swords, staves, hatchets, and
the butt-end of our muskets, with a fury not to be
resisted; so that, with the most dismal screaming
and howling, they had recourse to their feet, to save
their lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget
the valour of the two women; for they exposed
themselves to the greatest dangers, killed many with
their arrows, and valiantly destroyed several more
with their hatchets. s -;-v.''
"In fighting these two battles, we were so much
tired, that we did not then trouble ourselves to
pursue them to their canoes, in which we thought
they would presently put to the ocean: But there
happening a dreadful storm at sea, which continuing
all that night, it not only prevented their voyage,
but dashed several of their boats to pieces against
the beach, and drove the rest so high upon the
shore, that it required infinite pains to get them
osf. After our men had taken some refreshment and
a little repose, they resolved early in the morning
to go towards the place of their landing, and fee
whether ihey were gone ofly or in what posture
they remained. This neceflarily led them to the
place of battle, where several of the savages were
expiring; a sight no way pleasing to generous minds,
to delight in their misery, though obliged to conquer
them by the law of arms: But our own Indian staves
put them out of their pain, by dispatching them
with their hatchets. At length, coming in view of
the remainder of their army, we found them leaning
upon their knees, which were bended towards their
mouth, and the head between the two hands.
Hereupon, coming within musket-shot of them, I
ordered two pieces to be fired without ball, in order
to alarm them, that we might plainly know whether
they had the courage to venture another battle, or
were utterly dispirited from such an attempt, that so
we might accordingly manage them. And indeed
the project took very well; for no sooner did the
favages hear the first gun, and perceive the slash of
the second, but they suddenly started upon their
feet, in the greatest consternation; and when we
approached towards them, they ran yowling and
screaming away up the hill into the country.
"We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
weather had permitted them to have gone osf to the
sea : But when we considered that their escape might
occasion the approach of multitudes, to our utter
ruin and dissolution, we were very well pleased the
contrary happened: And Will Atkins (who, though
wounded, would not part from us all this while) ad-
vised us not to let slip this advantage, but clapping
between them and their boats, deprive them of the
capacity of ever, returning to plague the island: J
know (said he), there is but one objection you can make,
which is, that these creatures, living like beasts in the
wood, may make excursions, rifle the plantations, and
destroy the tame goats: But .then consider, .we had bet-
ter to do ivith an hundred men, whom we can kill, or
make slaves of, at leisure, than with an hundred na-
tions, whom it is impossible we should save ourselves
from, much less subdue. This advice and these ar-
guments being approved of, we set fire to their boats;
and though they were so wet that , they would not
burn entirely, yet we made them incapable for swim-
ming in the seas. As soon as the Indians perceived
what we were doing, many of them ran out of the
woods, in sight of us, and kneeling down piteously
cried out, Oa, On, Waramakon, intimating, I sup-
pose, that if we would but spare their canoes, they
would never trouble us again.!
"But alh;their complaints, submissions, and en-
treaties, were in vain: For self-preservation obliging
us to the contrary, we destroyed^every one of them
that had escaped the fury of the ocean. ' When the
Indians perceived this, they raised a lamentable cry,
and ran into the woods, where they continued run-
ning about, making the woods ring with their la-
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
making these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at
the same^time, to have set a sussicient guard upon
the plantations: For the savages, in their ranging
about, found out the bower, destroyed the fences,
trod the corn down under their feet, and tore up
the vines and grapes.' It' is true, we were aiways
able to fight these creatures; but as they were too
swift for us, and very numerous, we durst not go
cut single, for fear of them; though that too was
'needless, they having no weapons, nor any materials
to make them; and indeed their extremity appeared
in a little time after.
"Though the savages, as already' rhcntion'dd, had
destroyed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our flock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will Atkins and his compa-
nions, one of whom being killed by an arrow, they
were now reduced to two: It is remarkable, that
this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with his
hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sa-
.vages up to the farther part of the island, where up
Indians landed; to kill as many of them as we could,
till we had reduced their number; and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of which
they were so terrified, that they Would fall to the
ground. Every day we killed and wounded some of
them, and many we sound starved-to death, so that
our hearts began to relent at the'fight of such misai.
rable objects. At last, with great dissiculty, taking
one of them alive, and using him with kindness and
tenderness, we brought him to Old Friday, who talk-
ed to him, and told him how good we would be to
them all, giving them corn and land to plant and live
in,and present nourishment, provided they would keep
within such bounds as should be allotted them, and
not do prejudice to others: Go then, (said he) and in-
form your countrymen of this; which, if they "will not
agree to, every one of them Jhall be slain.
. ** The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
reduced to about thirty-seven, joyfully accepted the
osfer, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
sent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well
armed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian
slaves, who marched to the place where they were.
The slaves were loaded with a large quantity of
bread, and rice cakes, with three live goats: And
the poor Indians being ordered to sit down 'on the
fide of the hill, they ate the victuals very thankfully,
and have proved faithful to the last, never trespas-
sing beyond their bounds, where as this day they
quietly and happily remain, and where we now and
then visit them. They are confined to a neck of
land about a mile and a half broad, and three or
soar in length, on the south-east corner of the island,
the sea being before; and lofty mountains behind
them, free from tire appearance of canoes; and in»
deed their countrymen have never made any inquiry
after them. We gave them twelve hatchets, and
three or four knives ; have taught them to build huts,
make wooden spades, plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them, as likewise to make
wicker-works, in which, I must ingenuously confess,
they infinitely outdo us, having made themselves se-
veral pretty necesfaries and fancies, as baskets, sieves,
bird-cages, and cupboards, as stools, beds, and
couches, no less useful than delightful: And now
they live the most innocent and inoffensive creatures
that ever were subdued in the world, wanting no-
thing but wives to make them a nation.
"Thus, kind Sir, have I given you according to
my ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure to this day: And we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind providence of Heaven in our
merciful deliverance. When you inspect your little
kingdom, you will find in it some little improvement,
your flocks increased, and your subjects augmented:
So that from a desolate island, as this was before your
wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a visible pro-
spect of its becoming a populous and well-governed
little kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory."
The end of the Spanish governor's relation.
The continuation of the life ef Robinson Crusoe; both of
those passages that happened during the time of his con-
tinuance on the island, and after his departure, till he
arrived again in his native country.
THERE is no doubt to suppose, but that the pre-
ceding relation os my faithful Spaniard was
very agreeable, and no less surprising to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: Nor were
these people less pleased with those neceflary utensils
233
that I brought them, such as the knives, scissars,
spades, shovels, and pick-axes, with which they now
adorn their habitations. So much had they addicted
themselves to wicker-work, prompted by the inge-
nuity of the Indians, who assisted them, that when I
viewed the Englishmens colonies, they seemed at a
distance as though they had lived like bees in a hive:
For Will Atkins, who was now become a very in-
dustrious and sober man, had made himself a tent of
basket-work round the outside ; the walls were work-
ed in as a basket, in pannels or strong squares of
thirty-two in number, standing about seven feet high:
In. the middle was another, not above twenty paces
round, but much stronger built, being of an octago-
nal form, and in the eight corners stood eight strong
posts, round the top of which he laid strong;pieces,
pinned with wooden pins, from which he raised a
pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I assure you,
and joined very well together with iron spikes, which
he made himself; for he had made him a forge, with
a pair os wooden bellows and charcoal for his work,
forming an anvil out of one of the iron-crows, to
work upon, and in this manner he would make him-
self hooks, staples spikes, bolts, and hinges. After
he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he
made it so firm between the rafters with balket-work,
thatching that over again with rice straw, and over
that a large leaf of a tree, that his house was as dry
as if it had been tiled or slated. The outer circuit
was covered as a lean-to quite round this inner apart-
ment, laying long rafters from the thirty-two angles,
to the top-posts of the inner house, about twenty
feet distance; so that there was a space like a wall
betwixt the outer and inner wall, near twenty feet in
breadth. The inner place he partitioned off with
the same wicker-work, dividing it into six neat apart-
ments, every one of which had a door, first into the
entry of the main tent, and another into the space
ROBrNSON CRUSOE.
and walk that was round it, not only convenient for
retreat, but for circle; there was a passage directly
to the door of the inner house; on eirher side was a
wicker partition, and a door, by which you go first
into a large room twenty-two feet wide, and about
thirty long, and through that into another of a smal-
ler length, so that in the outward circle were ten
handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come
at through the apartments of the inner tent, serving
as retiring rooms to the respective chambers of the
inner circle, and four large warehouses, which went
in through one another, two on either hand of the
passage that led through the outward door to the
inner tent. In short, nothing could be built more
ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better conveni-
encies; and here lived the three families, Will At-
kins, his companion, their wives and children, and
the widow of the deceased. As to religion, the men
seldom taught their wives the knowledge of God,
any more than the sailors custom of swearing by his
name. The greatest improvement their wives had,
was, they taught them to speak English, so as to be
understood.
None of their children were then above six years
old; they were all fruitful enough; and, I think,
the cook's mate's wife was big os her sixth child.
When I inquired of the Spaniards about their cir-
cumstances while -among the savages, they told me,
that they abandoned themselves to despair, reckoning
themselves a poor and miserable people, that had no
mean put into their hands, and consequently mull
soon be starved to death. They owned, however,
that they were in the wrong to think so, and for re-
fusing the assistance that reason offered for their sup-
port, as well as future deliverance, confessing that
grief was a mofb insignificant passion, as it looked
upon things as without remedy, and having no hope
of good things to come ; all vrhieh verified this noted
proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here; for making ob-
servations upon my improvements, and on my con-
dition at first, infinitely worse than theirs, he told
me, that Englishmen had, in their distress, greater
presence of mind than those of any other country
that he had met with; and that they and the Portu-
guese were the worst men in the world to struggle
under misfortunes. When they landed among the
savages, they found but little provision, except they
would turn cannibals, there being but a few. roots and
herbs, with little substance in them, and-os which
the natives gave them but very sparingly. Many
were the ways they took to civilize and teach the sa-
vages, but in vain: For they would not own them
to be their instructors, whose lives were owing to
their bounty. Their extremities were very grcat,
many days being entirely without food, the savages
there being more indolent and less devouring than
those who had better supplies.. When they went out
to battle, they were obliged to assist these people, in
one of which my faithful Spaniard being taken, had
like to have been devoured. They had lost their am-
munition, which rendered their fire-arms useless;
nor could they use the bows and arrows that were
given them, so that while the armies were at a dis-
t nee, they had no chance, but when close, then
they could be of service with halberts and sharpened
sticks, put into the muzzles of their musleets. They
made themselves targets of wood, covered with the
skins of wild beasts; and when one happened to be
knocked down, the rest of the company sought over
him till lie recovered; and then standing close in a
Jine, they would make their way through a thousand
favages. At the return of their friend, who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were they
less surprised at the sight os the loaves of bread I had
sent them, things they had not seen for several years,
at the fame time crossing and blessing it,'as though
it was manna sent from Heaven: But when they
knew the errand, and perceived the boat which was
to carry them to the person and place from whence
such relies came, this struck them with such a sur-
prise of joy as made some of them saint away, and
others burst out into tears.
This was the summary account that I had from
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I left them. As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that score. I told them I was come purely to e-
stablish, and not to remove them; and, upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and defence, but also artificers, and o-
ther persons, both for their necessary employments,
and to add to their number. They were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one
by one, if they had entirely forgot their first animo-
sities, would engage in the strictest friendship, and
shake hands with one another? On this, Will At-
kins, with abundance of good humour, said, they
had afflictions enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to make them all friends: As for
himself he would live and die among them, owning,
that what the Spaniards had done to him, his own
mad humour had made necessary for them to do.
Nor had the Spaniards occasion to justify their pro-
ceeding to me ; but they told me, that since Will
Atkin3 had behaved himself so valiantly in fight, and
at other times showed such a regard to the commop
interest of them all, they had not only forgotten all
that was past, but thought he ought as much to be
trusted with arms and necessaries as any of them,
which they testified by making him next in com-
mand to the governor: And they most heartily em-
braced the occasion of giving me this solemn assur-
ance, that they would never separate their interest
again as long as they- lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we
appointed all of us to dine together the next day;
upon this I caused the ship's cook and his mate to
come on shore for that purpose, to assist in dressing
our dinner. 'We brought from the ship six pieces
of beef, and four of pork, together with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular, I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of
English beer, which was very acceptable to them.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids,
which being roasted, three of them were sent as
fresh meat to the sailors on board, and the other
two we ate ourselves. After our merry and inno-
cent feast was over, I began to distribute my cargo
among them. First, 1 gave them linen sufficient to
make every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spa-
niards request, made them up six. The thin English
stuffs I allotted to make every one a light coat like a
frock, agreeable to the climate, and left them such a
quantity as to make more upon their decay, as also
pumps, shoes, hats, and stockings. It is not to be ex-
pressed the pleasing satisfaction which fat upon the
countenances of these poor men, when they perceiv-
ed what care I took of them, as if I had been a com-
mon father to them all; and they all engaged never
to leave the island, till I gave my consent for their
departure. I then presented to them the people I
brought, viz. the tailor, smith, and the two car-
penters; but my Jack of all trades was the most ac-
ceptable present 1 could make them. My taiior fell
immediately to work, and made every one of them a
shirt; after which, he learned the women how to,
few and stitch, thereby to become the more helpful
to their husbands. Neither were the carpenters less
useful, taking in. pieces their clumsy things, instead
of which they made convenient and handsome tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers and shelvcs. But
when I carried them to fee Will Atkins's balket-
houfe, they owned they never saw such a piece of na-
tural ingenuity before: / am sure (said one of the
carpenters) the man that built this has no need of us
you need, Sir, do nothing, but give him ttols.
I divided the tools among them in this manner:
To every man I gave a digging-spade, a shovel, and
a rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and to
every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw, with a store for a general supply, should
any be broken or worn out. I left them also nails,
staples, hinge6, hammers, chissels, knives, scissars, and
all forts of tools and iron work; and for the use of
the smith, gave them three tons of unwrought iron
for a supply: And as to arms and ammunition, I stor-
ed them even to profusion, or at least to equip a suf-
ficient little army against all opposers whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunate-
ly starved to death), together with the maid, a pious
and well educated young woman, seeing things so
well ordered on shore (for I made them accompany
me), and considering they had no occasion to go so
far a voyage as to the East Indies, they both desired
of me that I would leave them there, and enter them
among my subjects. This I readily agreed to, order-
ing them a plat of ground, on which were three lit-
tle houses erected, environed with baiket-work, pal-
lisadoed like Atkins's, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each of
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the middle
tent was not only their storehouse, but their place
for eating and drinking. At this time the two Eng-
239
lifhmen removed their habitation to their former
place; so that now the island was divided into three
colonies; filft* Those I have just now mentioned;
secondly. That of Will Atkins, where there'w*re four
families of Englishmen, with their wives and children:
The widow and her children; the young man and
the maid, who, by the way we made a wife of before
our departure ; three savages, who were slaves; the
tailor, smith (who served also as a gun-smith), and
my other celebrated person called Jack of all trades.
Thirdly, My chief colony, which consisted of the Spa-
niards, with Old Friday, who still remained at my old
habitation, which was my capital city: And surely
never was there such a metropolis, it now being hid
in so obscure a grove, that a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and looked purpose-
ly for it, without being able to find it, though the
Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries, both without
and within, in a most surprising manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the young
French priest of the order of St. BenediB, whose ju-
dicious and pious discourses, upon sundry occasions,
merit an extraordinary observation : ,Nor can his be-
ing a French Papist priest, I presume, give osfence to
any of my readers, when they have this assurance
from me, that he was a person of the most courteous
disposition, extensive charity, and exalted piety. His
arguments were always agreeable to reason, and his
conversation the most acceptable of any person that
I had ever yet met with in my life.
Sir, (said he to me one day) since under God (at
the same time crossing his breast) jw« have not only saved
my life, but bypermitting me to go this voyage, have grant-
ed me the happiness of free conversation, 1 thinh it my du-
ty, as my profession obliges me, to save what fouls I canf
by bringing them to the knowledge of some Cathtlic
doctrine, necessary to salvation; and since these people
are under your immediate government, in gratitude, jus-
tlce, and decency, for .what you have done for me, I offer
no farther points in religion than what shall merit your
approbation. Being pleased with the modesty of his
carriage, I told him he should not be the worse used
for being of a different persuasion, if, upon that ac-
count, we did not differ in points of faith, not de-
cent in a part os the country where the poor Indians
ought to be instructed in the knowledge of the true
God and his Son Jesus Christ. To this he replied,
that conversation might easily be separated from dis-
putes; that he would discourse with me' rather as
a gentleman than a religious; but that-if he did en-
ter upon religious arguments, upon my desiring the
fame, I would give him liberty to defend his own
principles. He farther added, that he would do
all that became him in his ofsice, as a priest as well
as a Christian, to procure the happiness of all that
were in the ship: That though he could not pray
with, he would pray for us, on all occasions: And
then he told me several extraordinary events of his
life, within a few years past, but particularly in this
last, which was the most remarkable: That in this
voyage he had the misfortune to be five times ship-
ped and unshipped: His first design was to have gone
to Martinico, for which taking ship at St. Malo, he
was forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the vessel
running aground in the mouth of the Tagus: That
from thence he went on board a Portuguese ship,
bound to the Madeiras, whose master being but an
indifferent mariner, and out of his reckoning, they
were drove to Fial, where selling their commodity,
which was corn, they resolved to take in their load-
ing at the Isle of May, and to sail to Newfoundland;
at the banks of which, meeting a French ship bound
to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence
to Martinico, in this ship he embarked ; the master
of which dying at Quebec, that voyage was suspend-
ed: And lastly, shipping himself for France, this
I
last ship was destroyed by fire, as be-fore has been re-
lated.
At this time we talked no farther; but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to
visit the Englishmens colony, and tells me, that as
he knew the prosperity of the island was my prin-
cipal desire, he had something to communicate a-
greeable to my design, by which perhaps he might
put it, more than he yet thought it was, in the
way of the benediction of Heaven. How, Sir? (said
I, in a surprise) are we not yet in the way of God's
blessing, after all these signal providences and de-
liverances, of which you have had such an ample
relation? He replied, I hope, Sir, you are in the
way, and that your good design will prosper; but
still there are some among you that are not equally
right in their actions ; and remember, I beseech you,
Sir, that Achan, by his crime, removed God's bles-
sing from the camp of the children os Israel; that
though six-and-thirty were entirely innocent, ytft
they became the objects of divine vengeance, and
bore the weight of the punishment accordingly.
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inslamed his
foul, that I desired him to accompany me to the
Englishmens plantations, which he was very glad of,
by reason these were the subjects of what he design-
ed to discourse with me about; and while we walk-
ed on together, he began in the following manner:
Sir, (said he) I must confess it is a great unhappi-
ness that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some stat-
ed rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly and knowingly to osfend him, either by
neglecting what he has commanded} or by doing
what he has forbidden us. This truth every Chris-
I
tian owns, that whenever any one presumptuously
sins against God's command, the Almighty then
withdraws his blessing from him; every good man
therefore ought certainly to prevent such neglect os,
or sin against God and his commands. I thanked
the young priest for expressing so great a concern
for us, and desired him to explain the particulars of
what he had observed, that, according to the pa-
rable of Achan, I might remove the accursed thing
from among us. Why then, Sir, (said he) in the
first place, you have four Englishmen, who have
taken savage women to their wives, by whom they
have several children, though none of them are le-
gally married, as the law of God and man requires;
they, I fay, Sir, are no less than adulterers, and as
they still live in adultery, are liable to the curse of
God. I know, Sir, you may object the want of a
priest, or clergyman of any kind; as also pen, ink*
and paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. But neither this,
nor what the Spanish governor has told you of their
choosing by coascnt, can be reckoned a marriage,
nor any more than an agreement to keep them from
quarrelling among themselves; for, Sir, the essence
or sacrament of matrimony (so he called it) not only
consists in mutual consent, but in the legal obligation
which compels them to own and acknowledge one
another, to abstain from other persons, the men to
provide for their wives and children, and the women
to do the fame in like conditions, mutatis mutandis on
their side; whereas, Sir, these men, upon their
own pleasure, on any occasion, may forsake those
women, and marry others, and by disowning their
children, suffer them utterly to perish, Now, Sir,
(added he) can God be honoured in such an unlawful
liberty as this? how can a blessing succeed the best
endeavours, if men are allowed to live in so licen-
tious a way? I was indeed struck with the thing my"
2
silf, and thought that they were much to blarhe that
no formal contract had been made, though it had
been but breaking a stick between them, to engage
them to live as man and wife, never to separate, bat
love, cherish, and comfort one another all their lives.
Yet, Sir, (said I) when they took these women, I was
.not here; and if it is adultery, it is past my remedy,
and I cannot help it. True, Sir, (answered the young
priest) you cannot be charged with that part of the crime
which was done in your absence; but I beseech you don't
.flatter yourself that you are under no obligation now to
put a peritd to it, which if you negleft to do, guilt will
be entirely on you alone, since it is certainly in nobody's
power but yours to alter their condition. I must con-
fess I was so dull that I thought he meant I should
part them, and knowing that this would put the
whole island in confusion, I told him I could not con-
sent to it upon any account whatsoever. Sir, (said
he, in a great surprise) Ida not mean that you should se-
parate, but marry them by a written contrail, signed by
both man and woman, and by all the witnesses presents
-which all the European laws decree to be of sufficient effi-
cacy. Amazed with such true piety and sincerity,
and considering the validity of a written contract, I
acknowledged all that he said to be very just and
kind, and that I would discourse with the men
about it; neither could I see what reason they could
have not to let him rharry them, whose authority in
that asfair is owned to be as authentic as if they
were married by any of our clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had so make to me was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with those women seven years, and though they
were of good understanding, and capable of instruc-
tion, having learned not only to speak, but to read
English, yet all this while they never taught them,
any thing of the Christian religion, or the knowledge
of God, much less in what manner he ought to be
served. 'And is not this an unaccountable negleSl? (said
he, warmly.) Depend upon it, God Almighty will call
them to account for such contempt. And though I am
not of your religion, yet Ishould be glad to see these people
releasedfrom the devil''s power, and be saved by the prin-
ciples of the Christian religion, the hiowledge of God, of
a Redeemer, the refurreEiion, and a future slate. But
as it is not too late, if you please to give me leave to in-
slruil them, I doubt not but 1 shall supply this great de-
feB, by bringing them into the great circle of Chrifliani-
ty} even while you continue in the island.
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what-
ever he requested, and desired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, (said he) it should be a maxim among all Chri-
stians, That Christian knowledge ought to be propagated
by all possible means, and on all occasions. Upon this
account our church fends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China, men who are willing to die for
the fake of God and the Christian faith, in order to
bring poor infidels into the way of salvation. Now,
Sir, as here is an opportunity to convert seven-and-
thirty poor savages, I wonder how you can pass by
such an occasion of doing good, which is really worth
the expence of a man's whole life.
I must confess I was so confounded at this dis-
course, that I could not tell how to answer him.
Sir, (said he, seeing me in disorder) / shall be very
sorry if I have given you offence. No, Sir, (said 1)
I am rather confounded ; and you know my circum-
stances, that being bound to the East Indies in a
merchant ship, I cannot wrong the owners so much
as to detain the ship here, the men lying on victuals
and wages on their account. If I stay above twelve
days, I must pay 3I. Sterling per diem demurrage,
nor must the ship stay above eight days more; so
1
that I am unable to engage in this work, unless I
would leave the ship, and be reduced to my former
condition. The priest, though he owned it was hard
upon me, yet he laid it to my conscience, whether
the blessing of saving seven-and-thirty souls was not
worth venturing all that I had in the world? Sir,
(said I) it is very true ; but as you are an ecclesiastic,
it naturally falls into your profession; why therefore
don't you rather offer to undertake it yourself, than
press me to it? Upon this he turned about, making
a very low bow, I most humbly thank God and you,
Sir, (said he) for so blessed a call ; and most willingly
undertake so glorious an ossice, which will sussicient-
ly compensate all the hazards and dissiculties I have
gone through in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like sire, with all
the signs of the most zealous transports. And when
I asked whether he was in earnest; Sir, (laid he) it
was to preach to the Indians I consented to come
along with you; these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
life; if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls, I care not if I
never fee my native country again. One thing I on-
ly beg of you more, is, that you would leave Friday
with me, to be my interpreter, without whose assist-
ance neither of us will understand each other.
This request very sensibly troubled me, first, upon
Friday's being bred a protestant, and secondly, for
the affection I bore to him for his fidelity; but im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's father com-
ing into my head, I recommended him to him as
having learned Spanish, which the priest also under-
stood, and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had toldi
L3
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they led, told
them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or bachelors?
They answered, two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But (said I) with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawfully
married? They all said that they took them before
the governor as such, having nobody else to marry
them, which they thought as legal as if they hnd had
a parson. No doubt (said I) but in the eye of God
you are so; but unless I am assured of your honest
intention never to desert these poor creatures, I can
do nothing more for you, neither can you expect
God's blessing while you live in such an open course
of adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who spoke for
the rest, told me, that they believed their wives the
most innocent and virtuous creatures in the world;
that they would never forsake them while they had
breath; and that if there was a clergyman in the
ftiip, they would be married to them with all their
heart. I told you before (said I) that I have a mini-
ster with me, who shall marry you to-morrow morru
ing, if you are willing; so I would have you consult
to-night with the rest about it. I told him the cler-
gyman was a Frenchman, and knew not a word of
English, but that I would act as a clerk between
them. And indeed this business met with such speedy
success, that they all told me, in a few minutes after,
that they were ready to be formally married as socti
as I pleased; with which informing the priest, he
was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women should'
be made sensible of the meaning of the thing; with
which being well satisfied, they with their husoands
attended at my apartment the next morning: There
^'35 my priest, habited in a black vest, something
like a cassoc, with a fash round it, much resembling
a minister, and I was his interpreter. But the se-
riousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he made
of marrying the women, who were not baptised,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person:
Nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he ob-
tained my liberty to discourse both with the men and,
women; and then he told them, that in the sight of
all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of
society, they had lived in open adultery, which no-
thing now but their consent to marry, or final sepa-
ration, could put an end to; and even here was a
dissiculty with respect to the laws of Christian matri-
mony, in marrying a profesied Christian to a heathen
idolater, unbaptised; but yet there was time enough
to make them profess the name of Christ, without
which nothing could be done: That besides he be-
lieved themselves very indifferent Christians, and
consequently had not discoursed with their wives up-
on that subject; and that unless they promised him
to do so, he could not marry them, as being express-
ly forbidden by the laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily.
But, Lord, Sir! (said Will Atkins to me) how should,
ive teach them religion, who know nothing of it our-
selves? How can we talk to our wives of God, Jesur
Christ, heaven and hell? why, they would only laugh
at us, who never yet have practised religion, but on the
contrary, all manner of wickedness. Will Atkins, (said
I) cannot you tell your wife she is in the wrong, and
that her gods are idols, which can neither hear,
speak, nor understand; but that our God, who has
made, can destroy all things; that he rewards the
good, and punishes the wicked, and at last will bring
us to judgment? Cannot you tell her these things?
That's true, (said Atkins) but then she'll tell me it is.
utterly false, since I am not punished and sent to the .
devil, who hath been such a wicked creature. These;
L4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
words I interpreted to the priest. O! (said he) tell
him his repentance will make him a very good mini-
ster to his spouse, and qualify him to preach on the
mercy and long-suffering of a merciful Being, who
desires not the death of a sinner, and even defers
damnation to the last judgment; this will lead him
to the above doctrine, and will make him an excel-
lent preacher to his wife. I repeated this to Atkins,
who, being more than ordinarily affected with it, re-
plied, 1 know all this, Sir, and a great deal more;
but how can I have the impudence to talk thus to
my wife, when my conscience witnesses against me?
alas! said he (with tears in his eyes, and giving a
great sigh), as for repenting, that is for ever past me.
Past you! Atkins, (said I) what do you mean? You
know well enough (said he) what I mean; / mean it
is too late.
When I told the priest what he said, the poor af-
fectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himself, Pray, Sir, (said he) q/k him. if he
is contented that it is too late; or is he concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put fairly to
Atkins, who replied in a passion, How can I be easy
in a slate which I know must terminate in my ruin? For
I really believe, some time or other, I shall cut my throat,
to put a period to my life, and to the terrors of my con-
science.
At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, (said
he) pray, tell him it is not too late; Chrifl will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of his passion.
Does he think he is beyond the power of divine mercy?
There may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will
no longer slrive, but never too late for men to repent in
this world. I told Atkins every word the priest had
said, who then parted from us to talk to his wife,
while we discoursed with the rest. But these were
very stupid in religious matters, yet all of them pro-
mised to do their endeavours to make their wives
furn Christians ; and upon which promises the priest
married the three couple. But as Atkins was the'
orrfy sincere convert, and of more fense than the rest,
my clergyman was earnestly inquiring after him:
Sir, (said he) let us .walk out of this labyrinth, and I
dare fay weshall find this poor man preaching to his wife
already. And indeed we found it true; for coming
to the edge of the wood, we perceived Atkins and «
his savage wife sitting under the shade os a bush, in
very earnest discourse: He pointed to the sun, to
the quarters of the earth, to himself, to her, the
woods, and the trees. Immediately we could per-
ceive him start upon his feet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the tears
ran down my clergyman's cheeks; but our great
misfortune was, we could not hear one word that
pasted between them. Another time he would em-
brace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kissing her
with the greatest transports, and then both kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself; and a little after this,
we observed by her motion, as frequently lifting up
her hands, and laying them on her breast, that she
was mightily affected with his discourse; and so
they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to be called in; upon which we agreed to exa--
mine him alone, and so I began thus to discourse
him. Prithee, Will Atkins, (said 1) what education
had you? What was your father?
IV. A. A better man than ever I shall be; he was,,
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or'
correction, which I despised like a brute, as I was,,
and murdered my poor father.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
[Here the priest started, and looked pale, atthinking,
he. had really killed his father.'},
Li
R. C. 'What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke his
hean, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience to
the tenderest and best os fathers.
R. C. Well, I piay God grant you repentance; I
did not ask you to extort a confession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good than your companions.
IV. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past
life, conscience upbraids me with my father; the sins
'against our parents make the deepest wounds, and
their weight lies the heaviest upon the mind.
R C. You talk, Will, too feelingly and sensibly
for me; I am not able to bear it.
IV. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do: And every shore,
Valley, and tree in this island, witness the anguish
of my soul for my undutifulness to my kind father,
'whom I have murdered likewise: Yet my repent-
ance falls infinitely short of yours. But, Will, how
comes the fense of this matter to touch you just now?
W- A. Sir, the work you have set me about has
occasioned it; for talking to my wife about God and
religion, she has preached me such a sermon that I
fliall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R C. No, no, it is your own moving pious argu-
ments to her has made conscience fling them back
upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what passed
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin?
W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage,
the reason of such compacts, whereby order and jus-
tice is maintained; without which men would run
from their wives and children, to the dissolution of
families or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did she say to all this?
W. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the follow-
ing manner, which 1 {hall exactly repeat according
to my m?an capacity, if you think it worth your
while to honour it with your attention.
The Dialogue between Will Atkins and his Wife in
the Wood.
Wife. VOU tell me marriage God appoint; have
*. you God in your country?
W. A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee god is in my
country, not yours.
W. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made;
he also made the earth, the sea, and all that is there-
in.
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago?
W. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch,
having a long time lived without the knowledge of
God in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own na-
tion; No no good ting! No fay O to him? that's
strange!
W. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no
God in heaven for all that.
Wife. Why God susfer this? why makee not live
well?
W. A. It is our" own faults, child.
Wife. But, if he much great, can makee kill, why
no makee kill when to serve him? No be good mans,
no cry O to him.
W. A. That's true, my dear, he may strike us
dead, but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
mercy, nor feared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good, no»
makee kill, when you makee him angry,
ho
W. A. Alas! must my wicked life hinder you
from believing in him?
'Wife. How can me tink your God live there?
(pointing to heaven).. Sure he no ken what you do
here.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, ar.d knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
W. A. My dear, this shows he is indeed a God, and
not a man, who has such tender mercy. .
Wife. Mercy! what do you call mercy \
W. A. He pities and spares us; as he is our great
Creator, so is .he also our tender Father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked;
then he no good, no great mighty.
W\A. O my dear, don't fay so, he is both; and
many times he shows terrible examples of his judg-
ment and vengeance.
Wife. Then you makee.de bargain with him; you
do bad ting> he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A. No indeed, my sins are all presumptions,
upon his goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead; and
you give him no tankee neither.
W. A. It is true, I am an ungrateful, unthankful
dog that I am.
Wife. Why, you fay, he makee you, why makee
you no much better then?
W. A. It is I alone that have deformed myself*
and abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him angry, no do bad ting.
W. A. You mean, my dear, that ycu desire I
would teach you to know God: Alas! poor dear
creature! He must teach thee, and not I. Cut I'll,
pray earnestly to him to direct thee, and to forgive
253
me, a miserable sinner, sHereupon he went a little
distance, and kneeling down, prayed earnestly to God to
enlighten her mind, and to pardon his fins.: When this
was done, they continued their discourse thus.)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission
to him that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
what you fay?
W. A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray, and has
given us his promise that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid you pray? What, do you
hear him speak?
W. A. No, my dear, but God has spoken former-
ly to good men from heaven: And by divine revela-
tion they have written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me; but one time or
other I shall get it for you to read. Then he embrar-
ced her with great affection.
Wife. Pray tell a mee did God teachee them write
that book?
W. A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to he
God.
Wife. What way, what rule you know him?
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy, and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do all
things you. fay he do, surely he hear me say O to
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good; he
no kill me if I love him; me tink, believe him great
God; me say O to him, along with you, my dear.
Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made her
kneel down by him, praying with the greatest fervency,
that, Cod would inftrutl her by his Holy Spirit s and
*>"4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
thus G;d rv his providence would fend them a B:'i/e for
both their injlruElions. And Juch was the early piety of
this new convert, that Jhe made him promise never t»
forsake God any more, lest being made dead, (as she call-
ed it J, she should not only want her 'wslruElor, but him-
self be miserable in a long eternity.
Such surprising account ?.s this was, proved very-
affecting to us both, but particularly to the young
clergyman, who was mightily concerned he could
not talk to her himself. Sir, (said he) there is some-
thing more to be clone to this woman than to marry
her, I mean that she ought to be baptised. To this
I presently agreed: Pray, (said he again) ask her
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus?
Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of faith,
and redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, last judgment, and a future state;
but the poor fellow melted into tears at this question^
saying, that he had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them made him a-
fraid lest her knowledge of them should rather make
her contemn religion than be benefited by it; but that
if I would discourse with her, it would be very evi-
dent my labour would not be in vain. Accordingly
I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter be-^
tween the religious priest and the woman, I entreat-
ed him to go on: But surely never was such a ser-
mon preached by any clergyman in these latter days,
with so much zeal, knowledge, and sincerity; im
short, he brought the woman to embrace the know-
ledge of Christ, and of redemption by him, with so
surprising a degree of understanding, that she made
it her own request to be baptised.
He then performed his office in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by saying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asked me to give her a name, a»
being her godfather, and pouring a whole dish fuU
of water upon the woman's head^ he said, Maky^ I
baptise thee in the name oF the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
know of what religion he was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latin. Thus the wo-
man being made a Christian, he married her to Will
Atkins; which being finished, he affectionately ex-
horted him to lead a holy life for the future; that
since the Almighty, by the convictions of his con-
science, had honoured him to be the instrument of
his wife's conversion, he should not dishonour the
grace of God, that while the savage was converted,
the instrument should be cast away. Thus ended a
ceremony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable I
ever passed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
mother was starved) came to me, faying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englishmen with savages, he had a
match to make between two Christians, which he
desired might be sinished before I departed. Think-
ing that it was he himself that had courted his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
rashly upon the account of his solitary circumstances;
that the maid was an unequal match for him, both
in respect to substance and years -, and that it was
'very probable he would live to return to his own
country, where he might have a far better choice.
At these woriis, smiling, he interrupted me, thank-
ing me for my good advice; that as he had nothing
to beg of me, but a small settlement, with a servant
or two, or some few necessaries, so he hopeel I would
not be unmindful of him when I returned to Eng-
Jand, but give his letters to his friends; and that
when he was redeemed, the plantation and all its
improvements, however valuable, should be return-
ed to me agairj. But as for the marriage he pro-
posed, that it was not himself, but that it was be-
tween my Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mention-
ing this match, which seemed very suitable, the one
being a very ingenious fellow, and the other an ex-
cellent, dexterous, and sensible housewife, fit to be
governess of the whole island; so we married them
the same day; and as I was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, appointing
her and her husband a convenient large space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land I left to Will Atkins, who really divided it
very justly to every person's satisfaction: They on-
ly desired one general writing under my hand for the
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed, and
sealed to them, setting out their bounds, and giv-
ing them a right to the whole possession of their re-
spective plantations with their improvements, to them
and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as
my own property, and a certain rent for every parti-
cular plantation after eleven years. As to their laws
and government, I exhorted them to love one an-
other: And as to the Indians who lived in a nook
by themselves, I allotted three or four of them plan-
tations, and the ress t willingly chose to become ser-
vants to the other families, by which means they
were employed in useful labour, and fared much bet-
ter than they did before. Besides, the savages be-
ing thus mixed with the Christians, the work of
their conversion might be set on foot by the latter,
in the clergyman's absence, to our equal satisfaction.
The young priest, however, was a little anxious lest
the Christians should not be willing to dof their
parts in instructing those poor Indians: I therefore
told him, we should call them all together; that he
should speak to the Spaniards who were Papists, and
I to the English who were Protestants, and make
them promise they would never make any distinction.
in religion, but teach the general, true knowledge of .
God, and his son Jesus Christ, in order to convert
the poor savages: And this indeed they all promised
us accordingly.
When I came to Wiil Atkins's house, I found his
baptised wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all trades, were become great inti-
mates, and discoursing of religion together. O Sir,
(says Will Atkins) when God has sinners to recon-
cile to himself, he never wants an instructor : I knew
I was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore
this young woman has been sent hither as it were
from heaven, who is sussicient to convert a whole
island of savages. The young woman blushed, and
was going to rise *, but I desired her to sit still, and
hoped that God would bless her in so good a work:
And then pulling out a Bible (which I brought on
purpose in my pocket for him), Here, Atkins, (said
I) here is an assistant that perhaps you had not be-
fore. So confounded was the poor man, that it was
some time before he could speak ; at last turning to
his wife, My dear, (he said) did I not tell you that
God could hear what we said? Here is the book I
prayed for, when you and I kneeled under the bush;
God then heard us, and now has sent it. The wo-
man was surprised, and thought really God had sent
that individual book from heaven; but I turned to
the young woman, and desired her to explain to the
new convert, that God may properly be said to an-
swer our petitions, when, in the course of his pro-
vidence, such particular things come to pass as we
petitioned for. This the young woman did effectu-
ally; but surely Will Atkins's joy cannot be express-
ed, no man being more thankful for any thing in
the world, than he was for his Bible, nor desired it
from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I desired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
shc felt when she was starving to death for hunger \
to which she readily consented, and began in die
following manner:
"Sir, (said she) all our victuals being gone, af-
ter I had fasted one day, my stomach was very sick-
ish, and at the approach cf night I was inclined to
yawning, and sleepy. When I slept upon the couch
three hours, I awaked a little refreshed: Three hours
after my stomach being more and more fickish, I lay
down again, but could not sleep, being very faint
and ill. Thus I passed the second d.iy with a strange
variety, first hunger, then sick again, with reaching*
to vomit: That night I dreamed I was at Barbadocs,
buying plenty of provisions, and dined heartily. But
when I awaked, my spirits were exceedingly funk,
to find myself in the extremity os famine. There
was but one glass of wine, which being mixed with
sugar, I drank up; but for want of substance to di-
gest upon, the fumes of it got into my head, and
made me senseless for some time. The third day I
was so ravenous and furious, that I could have eaten
a little child if it had come in my way; during which
time I wae as mad as any creature in bedlam. In
one of these fits I fell down, and struck my face a-
^ainlt the corner of a pallet bed, where my mistress
lay: The blood gushed out of my nose, but by my
excessive bleeding, both the violence of the fever,
and the ravenous patt of the, hunger abated. After
this I grew sick again, strove to vomit, but could
not; then bleeding a second time, I swooned away
as dead; when I came to myself I had a dreadful
gnawing pain in my stomach, which went off towards
night, with a longing desire for food. 1 took a draught
of water and sugar, but it came up again; then I
drank water without sugar, and that staid with me.
I laid me down on the bed, praying God would take
me away; after I had slumbered, I thought myself
a-dying, therefore recommended my soul to God,
.and wished somebody would throw me into the sea.
All this while my departing mistress lay by me; the
last bit of bread slie had, she gave it to her dear
child, my young master. The morning after, I fell
into a violent passion of crying, and after that into
hunger. I espied the blood that came from my nose
in a bason, which I immediately swallowed up. At
night I had the usual variations, as pain in the sto-
mach, sick, sleepy, and ravenous; and I had no
thought but that I should die before morning. In
the morning came on terrible gripings in my bowels.
At this time I heard my young master's lamentations,
by which I understood his mother was dead: Soon
after the sailors cried, A srtil, a sail, hallooing as if
they were distracted, for joy of that relief, which af-
terwards we received from your hands."
Surely never was a more distinct account of starv-
ing to death than this. But to return to the dis-
position of things among my people', I did not take
any notice to them of the sloop that I had framed,
neither would I leave them the two pieces of brass
cannon, or the two quarter-deck guns that I had
on board, lest, upon any disgust, they ssiould have
separated, or turned pirates, and so made the island
a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober
pious people: But leaving them in a flourishing con-
dition, with a promise to send them further relief
from Brasil, as ssieep, .hogs, and cows (being obli-
ged to kill the latter at sea, having no hay to feed
them), I went on board the ship again, the first of
May 1695, after having been twenty days among
them : And next morning, giving them a salute of
five guns at parting, we set fail for the Brasils. The
third day, towards evening, there happening a calm,
and the current being very strong, we were drove
to the N. N. E. towards the land. Some hours
after we perceived the sea covered as it were with
something very black, not easily at first to be dis-
covered: Upon which our chief mate ascending th*
shrouds a little way, and taking a view with a per-
spective glass, he cries out, An army !—An army,
you fool, (said I) what do you mean? Nay, Sir, (said
he) don't be angry, I assure you it is not only an
army, but a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes paddling along, and making with great
haste towards us.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this re-
lation: And my nephew the captain could not tell
what to think of it, but thought we should all be
devoured. Nor was I free from concern, when I
considered how much we were becalmed, and what
a strong current set towards the shore: However,
I encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the
ship to an anchor, as soon as we were certain that
we must engage them. Accordingly we did so, and
furled all our fails: As to the savages, we feared
nothing, but only that they might set the ship on
fire; to prevent which I ordered them to get their
boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head,
and the other by the stern, well manned, with sheets
and buckets to extinguish the flames, should it so
happen. The savages soon came up with us, but
there were not so many as the mate had said; for
instead of a thousand canoes, there were only one
hundred and twenty: Too many indeed for us, se-
veral of their canoes containing about sixteen or
seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
greatest amazement, not knowing what to make of
us. They rowed round the ship, which occasioned
us to call to the men in the boats not to suffer them
to come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to
the savages to keep back, which they accordingly
did; but at their retreat they let fly about fifty ar-
rows among us, .and very much wounded one of
our men in the long-boat. I called to them not to
sire upon any account, but handing them down some
deal boards, the carpenters made them a kind of a
fence to shield them from the arrows. In half an
hour after they came so near astern of us, that sire
had a- perfect sight of them; then they rowed a
little farther out, till they came directly alongside of
us, and then approached so near us, as they could
hear us speak: This made me order all our men to
keep close, and get their guns ready. In the mean
time I ordered Friday to go out upon deck, and ask
them in his language what they meant. No sooner
did he do so, but six of the savages, who were in the
foremost canoe, stooping down, showed us their
naked backsides, as much as to fay in English, kiss
our . But Friday quickly knew what this meant,
by immediately crying out they were going to shoot;
unfortunately for him, poor creature! who fell un-
der the cloud of three hundred arrows, not less than
seven piercing through his body, killing one of the'
hest servants, and faithfullest of companions in all
my solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only pow-
der, to frighten them, I ordered to be loaded with
small shot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim,
but at this broadside splir and overset thirteen or
fourteen of their canoes, which killed numbers of
them, and set the rest a-swimm^ng; The others,
frightened out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, scoured away as fast as they could.
One poor wretch our people took up, swimming for
his life,, an hour after. He was very sullen at first,
so that he would neither eat nor speak: But I took
a way to cure him, by ordering them to throw him
into the sea, which they did, and then he came
swimming back like a cork, calling in his tongue, as
I suppose, to save him. So we took him on board,
hut it was a long time before we could make him
speak or understand English; yet when we had
taught him, he told us, they were going with their
kings to sight a great battle: And when we asked
him, what made them come up to us? (he said) to
melee de great wonder look: Where it is to be noted,
that those natives, and these of Africa, always add
two A at the end of English words, as mahee, takee,
and the like, from which it is a very dissicult thing
to make them break off.
Being now under fail, we took our last farewell of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all pos-
sible decency and solemnity, putting him into a cossin,
and committing him to the deep, at the same time
causing eleven guns to be sired for him. Thus end-
ed the life of one of the most grateful, faithful,
honest, and affectionate servants, that ever any man
was blessed with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for the Brasils, in about
twelve days time we made land in the latitude of five
degrees south of the line. Four days we kept on S»
by E. in sight of shore, when we made Cape St. Augus-
tine, and in three days we came to an anchor off the
Bay of All Saints. I had great dissiculty here to get
leave to hold correspondence on more; for neither the
figure of my partner, my two merchant trustees, nor
the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island-,
could procure me the favour, till such time as the
prior of the monastery of the Augustines (to whom I
had given 500 moidores) obtained leave from the.
governor, for me personally, with the captain and
one mere, together with eight sailors, to come on
shore, upon this condition, that we should not
land any goods out of the ship, or carry any person
away without licence: I found means however to
get on more three bales of English goods, such as
fine broad cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
brought as a present for my partner, who had sent
'me on board a present os fresh provisions, wine, and
sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including
some tobacco, and three or four sine gold medals.
Here I delivered my partner in goods to the va-
lue of tool. Sterling, and obliged him to sit up the
stoop 1 bought, for the use of my island, in order to
send them refreshments: And so active was he in
this matter, that he had the vessel finished in a few
days, to the master of which I gave particular in-
structions to find the place. I soon loaded him with
rv small cargo and one of our failors offered to settle
there, upon my letter to the Spanish governor, if . I
would allot him tools and a plantation. This I will-
ingly granted, and gave him the savage we had tak-
en prisoner to be his slave. All things being ready
for the voyage, my old partner told me, there was
an acquaintance of his, a Brasil planter, who having
fallen under the displeasure of the church, and in
fear of the Inquisition, which obliged him to be con-
cealed, would be glad of such an opportunity to make
his escape, with his wife and two daughtersand if
I would allot them a plantation in my island, he would
give them a small stock to begin with, for that the
ossicers had already seized his effects and estate, and
left him nothiog but a little household stuff, and two
slaves. This request 1 presently granted, concealing
him and his family on board our ship till such time
as the sloop (where all the effects were) was gone
out of the bay, and then we put them on board, who
carried some materials, and plants for planting sugar-
canes, along with them. By this sloop, among other
things, I sent my subjects three milk cows and five
calves, about 22 hogs, three sows big with pig, two
mares and a stone horse. I also engaged three Portugal
women to go for sake of the Spaniards, which, with
the persecuted man's two daughters, were sussicient,
since the rest had wives of their own, though in an-
other country: All which cargo arrived safe, no doubt,
to their exceeding comfort, who, with this addition,
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
At this place my truly honest and pious clergy,
man left me; for a ship being ready to set fail for
Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you, it was with the greatest reluctancy I parted from
a person, whose virtue and piety merited the greatest
esteem. '*
From the Brasils we made directly over the At-
lantic Ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a
tolerable good voyage, steering for the most part S.
E.' We were on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all the ship's mo-
tions after she arrived at the Cape; only being limit-
ed to a certain number of days, or stay, by charter-
party, at the several ports she was to go to. At the
Cape we only took in fresh water, and then sailed
for the coast of Coromandel: We were there inform-
ed, that a French man of war of 50 guns, and two
large merchant ships, were sailed for the Indies, but
we heard no more of them.
In our passage we touched at the island of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civilly enough; and, in exchange for knives, scissars,
and other trisles, they brought us eleven good fat
bullocks, which we took partly for present fresh vic-
tuals, and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as often as I
could. One evening, when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people standing gazing at us at a dis-
tance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, we cut three
boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance
from us, which, it seems, in that country, is not
only a token of truce and amity, but when poles or
boughs are set up on the other side, it is a sign the
truce is accepted. In these treaties, howerer, there
is one principal thing to be regarded, that neither
party come beyond one another's three poles or
boughs; so that the middle space is not only se-
cure, but is also allowed as a market for trassic and
commerce: When the truce is thus accepted, they
stick up their javelins and lances at the first poles,
and come on unarmed; but if any violence is osfer-
ed, away they run to their poles, take up their wea-
pons, and then the truce is at an end. This even-
ing it happened that a greater number of people than
usual, both men and women, traded among us for
such toys as we had, with such great civility, that
we made us a little tent of large boughs of trees,
some of the men resolving to lie on shore all night.
But, for my part, I and some others took our lod-
ging in the boat, with boughs of trees spread over it,
having a sail spread at the bottom to lie upon. A-
bout two o'clock in the morning, we were awakened
by the firing of muskets, and our men crying out
for help, or else they would all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to get the boat ashore, when our men
came plunging themselves into the water, with a-
bout four hundred of the islanders at their heels.
We took up seven of the men, three of them very
much wounded, and one left behind killed, while
the enemy poured their arrows so thick among us,
that we were forced to make a barricade, with boards
lying at the side of the boat, to shield us from dan-
ger: And having got ready our fire-arms, we re-
turned them a volley which wounded several of
them, as we could hear by their cries. In this con-
dition we lay till break of day, and then making
signals of distress to the ship, which my nephew the
captain heard and understood, he weighed anchor
and stood as near the shore as possible, and then
sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us
but we called to them not to come near, informing
M
them os our unhappy condition. However, they
ventured; when one of the men taking the end of a
tow-line in his one hand, and keeping, our boat be-
tween him and our adversaries, swam on board us,
and made fast our line to the boat; upon this, flip-
ping our cables, they towed us out of the reach of
their arrows, and quickly after, a broadside was gi-
ven them from the ship, which made a most dread-
ful havoc among them. When we got on board, we
examined into the occasion of this fray; the men
who fled informed us, that an old woman, who fold
milk within the poles, had brought a young woman
with her, who carried roots or herbs, the sight of
whom so much tempted our men, that they offered
rudeness to the maid, at which the old woman set up
a great cry; nor would the sailors part with the
prize, but carried her among the trees, while the
old woman went and brought a whole army down
upon them. At the beginning of the attack one of
our men was killed with a lance, and the fellow, who
began the mischief, paid dear enough for his mis-
tress, though as yet we did not know what had become
of him the rest luckily escaped. The third night
after the action, being curious to understand how
affairs stood, I took the supercargo, and twenty stout
fellows with me, and landed about two hours before
midnight, at the fame place where those Indians
stood the night before, and there we divided our
men into two bodies, the boatswain commanding
one, and I another. It was so dark that we could
see nobody, neither did we hear any voice near us:
But by and by the boatswain falling over a dead body,
we agreed to halt till the moon ihpuld rise, which
we kni-vv would be in an hour after. We perceived
here no fewer than two-and-thirty bodies upon the
giound, whereof two were- not quite dead. Satis-
Sec with this discovery, I was for going on board
again; but the boatswain and the rest told me, they
would make a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs (so they called them) resided, asking me at
the same time to go along with them i for they did
not doubt, besides getting a good booty, but they
should find Tom Jeffery there, for that was the
unhappy man we missed. But I utterly refused to
go, and commanded them back, being unwilling to
hazard their lives, as the safety of the ship wholly
depended upon them. Notwithstanding all I could
fay to them, they all left me but one, and the su-
percargo: So we three came back to the boat, where
a boy was left, resolving to stay till they returned.
At parting I told them I supposed most of them
would run the same fate with Tom Jeffery. To
this they replied, Come boys, come along, we ll .war-
rant "we'll come off safe enough: And ib away they
went, notwithstanding all my admonitions, either
concerning their own safety, or the preservation of
the ship. Indeed they were gallantly armed, every
man having a musket, bayonet, and a piltol, besides
Cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes, and hand-granades.
They came to a few Indian houses at firlt, which
not being the town they expected, they went far-
ther, and rinding a cow tied to a tree, they conclud-
ed that she would be a sussicient guide, and so it
proved; for after they untied her, she led them di-
rectly to the town, which consisted of above two
hundred houses, several families living in some of
the huts together. At their arrival, all being 'in a
profound lleep, the sailors agreed to divide them-
selves into three bodies, and set three parts of the
town on fire at once; to kill those that were escaping,
and plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperate-
ly resolved they went to work; but the first party
had not 'gone far, before they called out to the rest,
that they had found Tom Jessery; whereupon they
all ran up to the place, and found the poor fellow
indeed hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat
M 2
cut almost from ear to ear. In a house that was
hard by the tree they found sixteen or seventeen In-
dians, who had been concerned in the fray, two or
three of them being wounded, who were not gone
to sleep; this house they set on fire first, and in a
few minutes after, five or six places more in the
town appeared in slames. The conflragation spread
like wild- fi»e, their houses being all of wood, and
covered with slags or rushes. The poor affrighted
inhabitants endeavoured to run out to save their
lives, but they were driven back into the slames by
the sailors, and killed without mercy. At the first
house above mentioned, after the boatswain had slain
two with his pole-axe, he threw a hand granad'e
into the bouse, which bursting, made a terrible ha-
voc, killing and wounding most of them; and
their king and most of his train, who were then in
that house, fell victims to their fury, every crea-
ture of them being either smothered or burnt. All
this while they never fired a gun, lest the people
should awaken faster then they could overpower
them. But the fire awakened them fast enough,
which obliged our fellows to keep together in bodies.
By this time the whole town was in a slame, yet
their fury rather increased, calling out to one an-
other to remember Tom Jeffery. The terrible light
of this conflragation made me very uneasy, and
roused my nephew the captain, and the rest of his
men, who knew nothing of the matter. When he
perceived the dreadful smoke, and heard the guns
go off, he readily concluded his men were in danger;
he therefore takes another boat, and comes ashore
himself, with thirteen men weli armed. He was
greatly surprised to see me and only two men in the
boat, but more so when I told him the story; but
though I argued with him, as I did with his men,
about the danger of the voyage, the interests of the
merchants and owners, and the safety of the ship,
yet my nephew, like the rest, declared, that he
would rather lose the ship, his voyage, his life and
all, than his men should be lost for want of help;
and so away he went. For my part, seeing him re-
solved to po, I had not power to stay behind. He
ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men more,
and then we marched directly as the slame guided
us. But surely never was such a scene of horror be-
held, or more dismal cries heard, except when O-
liver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland, where he
neither spared man, woman, nor child.
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two more burnt
to death among the fire, which was now decaying.
Nothing could appear more barbarous than this re-
venge; none more cruel than the authors of it. As
we went on, the fire increased, and the cry proceed-
ed in proportion. We had not gone much farther,
when we beheld three naked women, followed by
sixteen or seventeen men, flying with the greatest
swiftness from our men, who shot one of them in
our sight. When they perceived us, whom they sup-
posed also their murderers, they set up a most dread-
ful shriek, and both of them swooned away in the
fright. This w/as a sight which might have softened
the hardest heart; and in pity we took some ways
to let them know we would not hurt them, while
the poor creatures, with bended knees and lift-up
hands, made piteous lamentations to save their lives.
I ordered our men not to hurt any of the poor crea-
tures whatsoever; but being willing to understand
the occasion of all this, I went among these unhap-
py wretches, who neither understood me nor the
good I meant them. However, being resolved to
put an end to this barbarity, I ordered the men to
follow me. We had not gone fifty yards before we
came up with the boatswain, with four of our men
at his heels, all of them covered with blood and dustj
and in search of more people to-satiate their ven-
geance. As soon as we saw them, we called out, and
made them understand who we were; upon which
they came up to us, setting up a halloo of triumph, in
token that more help was come. Noble Captain, (said
he to my nephew) I am glad you are come: We
have not half done with these villanous hell-hound
dogs; we will root out the very nation of them from
the earth, and kill more than poor Tom has hairs
upon his head : And thus he went on till I interrupt-
ed him. Blood-thirsty dog ! (said I) will your cruelty
never end? I charge you to touch not one creature
more; stop your hands, and stand still, or you are a
dead man this moment. Why, Sir, (said he) you
neither know who you are protecting, nor whav they
have done; but pray come hither, and behold an
instance of compassion, if such can merit your cle-
mency; and with that he showed me the poor fel-
low with his throat cut, hanging upon the tree.
Indeed here was enough to sill their breasts with
rage, which however I thought had gone too far, a-
greeable to these„words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi: Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and
their wrath, for it was cruel. But this sight made my
nephew and the' rest as bad as they; nay, my ne-
phew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a foul of them ought to live.
Upon this the boatswain and eight more directly turn-
ed about, and went to finish the intended tragedy;
which being out of my power to prevent, I returned
back both from the dismal sight, and the piteous
cries of those unfortunate creatures, who were made
victims to their fury. Indeed it was an egregious
piece of folly in me to return to the boat with but
one attendant; and I had very near paid for it, hav-
ing narrowly escaped forty armed Indians, who had
been alarmed by the conslagration; but having passed
the place where they stood, I got to the boat accom-
panied with the supercargo, and so went on board',
sending the pinnace back again, to assist the men
in what might happen. When I had got to the boat,
the fire was almost extinguished, and the noise was
abated; but I had scarce-- been half an hour on board
the ship, when I heard another volley given by our
failors, and a great smoke, which, as I afterwards
found, was our men falling upon those houses and
persons that stood between them and the sea; but
here they spared the wives and children, and killed
about sixteen or seventeen men. And so they came
strolling down to the pinnace, which at that time
was gotten on shore to receive them. Not a man
of them had received the least hurt, except two, one
of whom sprained his foot, and the other burnt his
hand a little, having met with no resistance, the poor
Indians being unprepared, amazed, and confounded.
Indeed I was extremely angry with every one of
them, but particularly the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to farther mischief: Nor could he make any other
excuse, but that, as he was a man, he could not ma-
ster his passions at the sight of one of his men so
cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
were not under my command, they took no notice of
my anger, but rather boasted of their revenge; and,
according to all their accounts, they killed or destroyed
about 150 men, women, and children, besides burn-
ing the town to ashes. They took their companion
Tom Jeffery from the tree, covered him with some
of the ruins, and so left him. But, however justifi-
able this action of our men might seem to them-
selves, yet I always openly condemned it, with the
appellation of the massacre of Madagascar: For
though they had slain this Jeffery, yet he was cer-
tainly the first aggressor, by attempting to violate the
chastity of a young innocent woman, who ventured
M 4
down to them on the faith of the public capitulation,
which was so treacherously broken.
We were now under sail, when the boatswain
would defend this bloody action, by saying, That the
Indians had broke the truce the night before, by
shooting one of our men without just provocation:
And what if the poor fellow had taken a little liber-
ty with the wench! he ought not to have been mur-
dered in so villanous a manner; and that they had
acted nothing but what the divine laws commission-
ed to be done to such homicides. However, I was in
the seme mind as before, telling them that they were
murderers, and bid him depend upon ir, that God
would blast their voyage for so unparallelled a piece
of barbarity.
'When we came into the Gulf of Persia, five os our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed, or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them hav-
ing scarce time to escape to their boat. This made
me upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of
Heaven for such actions : Upon which the boatswain
very warmly asked me, whether thoso men on whom
the tower os Siloam fell were greater sinners than
the rest of the Galileans? And besides, Sir, (said he)
none of these five poor men. that are lost, were
with us at the massacre of Madagascar, as you call
it, and therefore your reprehension is very unjust,
and your application improperly applied. Besides,
(added he) you are continually using the men very
ill upon this account, and being but a passenger your-
self, we are not obliged to bear it: nor can we tell
what ill designs you may have to t ring us to judg-
ment for it in England; and therefqre, if you do not
leave this discourse, and not concern yourself with
any of our affairs, I will leave the ship, and not fail
in such dangerous company.
All this I heard very patiently, till at length I
told him what concern I had on board was none of
his business; that, however, I was a considerable
owner of the ship, and therefore had a right to
speak in common, and that I was no way accountable
to him, nor to any body else. As no more passed
for some time after, I thought all had been over.
At this time we were in the road of Bengal, where,
going on shore with the supercargo, one day, in the
evening, as I was preparing to go on board, one of
the men came to me, and told me, I need not trouble
myself to come to the boat, for that the cockswain
and others had ordered him not to carry me on
board any more. This insolent message much sur-
prised me; yet I gave him no answer to it, but went
directly and acquainted the supercargo, entreating
him to go on board, and by acquainting the captain
with it, preveht the mutiny which I perceived would
happen. But before I had spoken this, the matter
was effected on board: For no sooner was he gone
off in the boat, but the boatswain, gunner, carpenter,
and all the inferior ossicers, came to the quarter-
deck, desiring to speak with the captain; and there
the boatswain made a long harangue, exclaiming a-
gainst me, as before mentioned; that if I had not
gone ashore peaceably for my own diversion, they
by violence would have compelled me for their satis-
faction; that as they had stripped with the captain,
so they would faithfully serve him; but if I did not
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to it, they
"would leave the ship immediately; hereupon, turn-
ing his face about by way of signal, they all cried out,
ONE and ALL, ONE and ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was
a man of great courage, yet he could not but be sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behaviour:
And though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that in common jus-
tice to me, who was a considerable owner in the strip,,
they could not turn me, as it were, out of my own*
M 5
house, which might bring their lives in clanger, should
they ever be taken in England; nay, though he in-
vited the boatswain on shore to accommodate mat-
ters with me, yet all this, I fay, signified nothing:
They would have nothing to do with me, and they
were resolved to go on shore, if I came on board.
Well, (said my nephew) if you are so resolved, per-
mit me to talk with him, and then I have done:
And so he came to me, giving me an account of
their resolution, how one and all designed to forsake
the ship when I came on board, for which he was
mightily Concerned. I am glad to fee you, nephew,
(said I) and rejoice it is no worse, since they have
not rebelled against you: I only desire you to send
my necessary things on shore, with a susficient sum
of money, and I will find my way to England as
well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew
to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compli-
ance; in short, all my necessaries were sent me, and
so this matter was over in a few hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther
ossEngland by sea than at my little kingdom, Sxcept
this difference, that I might travel by land over the
Great Mogul's country,ro Surat, from thence up to
Bassora, by sea up the Persian Gulf, then take the
way of the caravans over the Arabian Desert to Alep-
po and Scanderoon, there take shipping to Italy, and
so travel by land into France, aud from thence cross
the sea to England. '.'
My nephew lest me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk to
the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took lodg-
ings in an English woman's house, where several
French, one English, and two Italian merchants re-
sided. The handsome entertainment I met with
here occasioned me to stay nine months, .consider-
ing what course I should take. Some English goods
I had with me of great value, besides a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credence for more,
if there was any such necessity. The goods I soon
disposed of to advantage, and bought here several
good diamonds, which I could easily carry about
with me. One morning the English merchant came
to me, as being very intimate together; Countryman,
(said he) I have a projecl to communicate to you, which,
I hope, will suit to both our advantage. To be short,
Sir, we are both in a remote part of the world from our
country, but yet in a place where men of business may get
a great deal of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
ptundi to my thousand piunds, we will hire aship to our
satisfaclion; you shall be captain, I will be merchant,
and we'll go a trading voyage to China ; for why should
we lie still like drones, while the whole world is in a
continual motion?
This proposal soon got my consent, being very a-
greeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person. It required some time before we
could get a vessel to our mind, and sailors to man it
accordingly; at length we bought a ship, and got an
English mate, boatswain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast-men; and,
for want of others made shift with Indian seamen.
We first sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and then to Siam, where we bartered our wares for
some arrack and opium, the last of which bore a
great price among the Chinese; in a word, we went
up to Suikan, making a very great voyage; and,
after eight months time, I returned to Bengal, very
well satisfied with this adventure, having not only
got a sussicient quantity of money, but an insight of
getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the spice islands, and bring home a
load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts,,
islands belonging partly to Spain, but where the.
M 6
Dutch trade very considerably. We were not long
preparing for this voyage, which we made no less
successful than the last, touching at Borneo, and se-
veral other places which I do not perfectly remem-
ber, and returning home in about five months time.
We soon sold our spices, which were chiefly cloves,
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who
carried them away for the gulf; and, in short, mak-
ing five to one advantage, we were loaded with
money.
Not long aster my friend and I had made up our
accounts, to our entire fatisfaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster from Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this vessel pretended themselves
so sickly, that there were not hands sussicient to un-
dertake a voyage, and the captain having given out
that he intended to go to Europe, public notice was
given that the ship was to be lold. No sooner did
this come to our ears, but we bought the ship, paid
the master, and took possession. We would also
have very willingly entertained some of the men:
But they having received their share of booty, were
not to be sound, being altogether fled to Agra, the
great city of the Mogui's residence ; and from thence
were to travel to Surat, and so by sea to the Persian
Gulf. And indeed they had reason to fly in this
manner: For the truth of it was, the pretended cap-
tain was the gunner only, and not the commander:
That having been on a trading voyage, they were
attacked on ftore by the Malayans, who killed three
men and the captain: After whose death the other
eleven men run away with_ the ship to the Bay of
Bengal, and left the mate and other five men more
on sliore; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the ship, we thought we
bought it honestly; neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; when the man showed us a bill of
277
sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) to one Ema-
ii uel Clollershoven, which name he went by. And
so without any more to do, we picked up some Dutch
and English seamen, resolving for another voyage
for cloves among the Philippine and Malacca islands.
In short, we continued thus five or fix years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary success; in the
seventh year we undertook a voyage to China, design-
ing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by the way.
In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up and down
for a considerable time among the islands in the
Str*its of Malacca. No sooner were we clear of
those rugged seas but we perceived our ship had
sprung a-leak, which obliged us to put into the river
Cambodia, which lies northward of the gulf, and
goes up to Siam.
One day as 1 was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board an English East-India ship, riding up
the river, near the city of Cambodia; Sir, (said he)
you may wonder at my business, having never seen me
in your life; but though 1 am a sranger, I have some-
thing to tell you that very nearly concerns you ;. and in-
deed it is the imminent danger you are in has moved me
to give to you this.timely notice. Danger! (said I) what
danger ? I know of none, except my ship being leaky,
for which I design to have run her aground to-mor-
row morning. Sir, (faid he) I hope you will be better
employed, whtn you shall hear what 1 have to say to you.
Tou know the town os Cambodia is about 15 leagues up
this river: About three leagues on this fide of it, there
lie two Dutch and three English ships. And would you
venture here, without considering what strength you
have to engage them? I knew not what he meant by
this discourse, and turning short upon him, Sir, (said
I) I know no reason I have to be afraid either of any
English or Dutch ships. I am no interloper, and
what business have they then with me i Well, Sir^
(said the man) if you do think yourself secure, all as I
can Jay, you muft take your chance; however, 1 am very
sorry yen are so deaf to good advice, but I assure you, if
you do nit put to sea immediately, you will be attacked
by five long-boats full of men, hanged yourselffor a pi-
rate, if you are taken, and the particulars examined af-
terwards. 1 thought, Sir, (added he) / might have
'tnet with better reception for such a singular piece ofser-
vice. Sir, (said I) I never was ungrateful to any man:
But pray explain yourself and 1 will go on board this
minute, whether the leak be stopped or no. Why,
Sir, (said he) to be short, because time is precious,
the matter is this: You know well enough that you was
with the ship at Sumatra, where your captain was mur-
dered by the Malayans, with three of his sailors, and
that either you, or some who were on board you, ran a-
way with the ship, and are since turned pirates at sea.
Now, Sir, this is the sum of what I had to say; and
I can positively assure you, that if you be taken, you will
be executed without much ceremony ; for undoubtedly you
cannot but be sensible what little law merchant ships show
to pirgtes, whenever they fall into their unmerciful hands.
Sir, (said I) I thank you for your kind information:
And though I am sure no man could come more
honestly by the ship than I have done, yet knowing-
their enterprise, and being satisfied of your honest-
intention, I will be upon my defence. Prithee, Sir,
(said the man) don't talk of being upon your defence, the
best you can make is to be out of danger; and therefore,
if you have any regard to your life, and the lives of your
men, take the advantage, without fail, of putting out to
sea at high water; by which means, as you have a whole
tide before you, you will be too far out if their reach be-
fore they can come down.
I am mighty well satisfied, (said I) in this particu-
lar, and of your kindness, which merits my greatest
esteem. Fray Sir, what amends shaH I make you t
He replied> / know not what amends you are willing .
to make, because you miy have some doubts of its certain-
ty; bat to convince you of the truth of what I fay, I have
one offer to make to you. On board one of the English
Jhips, I have nineteen months pay due it me, and this
Dutchman that is with me has seven months pay due to
him, which if you will make good to us, we will go
along with you. If youshallfind, that there is nothing in
what we have said, then we shall desire nothing; but
when you are convinced that; we have saved the ship,
your life, and the lives of the men, we will leave the
whole to your generosity.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well, thank God, (said I) but pray let us weigh,
anchor forthwith. Weigh! (said he) what is the
meaning of this hurry? Pray ask no questions, (said
1) but all hnnds to work, without losing a moment's
time: Upon which, in great surprise, the captain
was called, who immediately ordered the anchor to
be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. I then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the story at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men I had brought
on board. Scarce had we finished our discourse
upon this head, but a sailor came to the cabin-door,
with a message from the captain, that we were chaced
by five sloops full of armed men. Very well, (said I)
it is plain now there is something in it. And so go-
ing upon deck, I told all the men there was a design
for seizing the ship, and of executing us for pirates;
and asked them, whether they would faithfully stand
by us, and by one another? To which they unani-
mously replied, that they would fight to their last-
drop of blood. I then asked the captain, which
way he thought best for us to manage the battle?
Sir, (said he) the only method is to keep them off with
our great/hot as long as we are able, and then have re-
course to our small arms: And when both these fail us,
then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the enemy,
wanting materials, can neither break open our bulk heads,
nor get in upon us. Meantime the gunner was order-
ed to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out of the
steerage, and to load them with musket bullets, and
small pieces of old iron; and the deck being cleared,
we prepared for the engagement, still however keep-
ing out at sea. The boats followed us with all the
fail they could make, and we could perceive the two
foremost were English, which outsailed the rest by
two leagues, and which we found would come up
with us: Hereupon we sired a gun without ball,
intimating that they should bring to, and we put
out a slag of truce, as a signal for parley; but find-
ing them crowding after us, till they came with-
in shot, we took in our white, and hanging out the
red slag, immediately fired at them with ball; We
then called to them with a speaking trumpet, bidding
them at their peril keep osf.
But all this signified nothing; for depending upon
the strength that followed them, they were resolute-
ly bent for mischief: Hereupon I ordered them to
bring the ship to, by which means, they lying upon our
broadside, we let fly at them at once; one of our shot
carried away the stern of the hindennost boat, and
obliged them not only to take down their sail, but
made them all run to the head of the boat, to keep
them from sinking; and so she lay by, having enough
of it. In the mean time we prepared to welcome
the foremost boat in the same manner. While we
were doing this, one of the three hindermost boat*
came up to the relief of that which was disabled, and
took the men out of her. We again called to parley
with them •, but instead of an answer, one of the boats
a.
28l
came close under our stern; whereupon our gunner
let fly his two chafe-guns, but missing, the men in
the boat shouted, and waving their caps, came on
with greater fury. To repair this seeming disgrace,
the gunner soon got ready, and siring the second
time, did a great deal of mischief among the enemy.
We waved' again, and bringing our quarter to bear
upon them, fired three guns more, when we found
the boat a-sink'ing, and several men already in the
sea; hereupon, manning our pinnace, I gave orders
to save as many as they could, and instantly ro come
on board, because the rest of their boats were ap-
proaching: Accordingly they did so, and took up
three of them, one of whom was almost past recove-
ry; and then crowding all the fail we could, after
our men came on board, we stood out farther to sea,
so that the other three boats gave over their chace,
when they came up to the first two. Thus deliver-
ed from imminent danger, we changed our course to
the eastward, quite out of the way of all European
ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once, let us into the secret. He told
us that the fellow who sold us the ship, was an ar-
rant thief, who had run away with her; that the
captain was treacherously murdered on the coast of
Malacca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being obli-
ged to have recourse to the woods for their safety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship,- m its
way to China, which had sent their boat on shore
for frelh water: That, after this he went to Batavia,
where two of the seamen belonging to the ship (who
had defeated the rest in their travels) arrived, and
there gave an account that the fellow who ran away
with the ship had sold her at Bengal to a set of pi-
rates, who went a-cruising, and had already taken
one English and two Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more,
by reason had we fallen into their hands, we could
have expected nothing from them but immediate
death, considering our accusers would have been our
judges: And therefore his opinion was, to return
directly to Bengal, where being known; we could
prove how honestly we came by the ship, of whom
we bought her, and the like, and where we were
sure of some justice; at least would not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards. I was at first of my
partner's opinion; but when I had more seriously
considered of the matter, I told him we ran a great
hazard in attempting to return, being on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if, upon a-
larm given, we should be taken by the Dutch off Ba-
tavia, or English elsewhere, our running away would
be a sufficient evidence to condemn us. This dan-
ger indeed startled not only my partner, but likewise
all the ship's company; so we changed our former
resolution, and resolved to go to the coast of Ton-
quin, and so to that of China, where pursuing our
first design as to trade, we might likewise have an
opportunity to dispose of the ship some way or other,
and to return to Bengal in any country vessel we
could procure. This being agreed to, we steered
away N. N. E. about fifty leagues off the usual course
to the east, which put us to some inconveniencies.
As the wind blew steadily against us, our voyage be-
came very tedious, and we began to be afraid of
want of provision; and what was still worse, we ap-
prehended, that as those ships, from whose boats we
had escaped, were bound to China, they might get
before us and have given fresh information, which
might create another vigorous pursuit. Indeed I
could not help being grieved, when I considered that
I, who had never wronged or defrauded any person
in my life, was now pursued like a common thief;.
and, if taken, to run the greatest danger of being
executed as such; and, though innocent, I found
myself under the necessity of flying for my safety;
nnd thereby escape being brought to shame, of which
I was even more afraid than of death itself. It was
easy to read my dejection in my countenance. My
mind was oppressed, like those unhsppy innocent
persons, who, being overpowered by blasphemous
and perjured evidences, wickedly resolved to take
away their lives, or ruin their reputation, have no
other recourse in this world, to ease their sorrow,
but sighs, prayers, and tears. My partner seeing me
so concerned, encouraged me as well as he could;
and, after describing to me the several ports of that
coast, he told me, he would either put in on the coast
of Cochinchina, or else in the bay of Tonquin, from
whence we might go to Macao, a town once posses-
sed by the Portuguese, and where still many Euro-
pean families reside.
To this place we steered, and early next morning
came in sight of the coast; but thought it advisable
to put into a small river, where we could, either
over-land or by the ship's pinnace, know what ves-
sels were in any ports thereabouts. This happy step
proved our' deliverance; for next morning there
came to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch ihips, and
a third without any colours; and, in the evening
two English ships steered the fame course. The river
where we were was hut small, and run but a few
leagues up the country northward: The country was
wild and barbarous, and the people thieves, having
no correspondence with any other nation, dealing on-
ly in fish, oil, and such gross commodities; and one
barbarous custom they still retained, that when any
vefltl was unhappily shipwrecked upon their coast,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
they make the men prisoners or slaves; so that now
we might fairly say we were surrounded by enemies
both by sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the oppor-
tunity, in this place, to search her, and to stop up
the places which let in the water. We accordingly-
lightened her, and bringing our guns and other
moveable things to one side, we essayed to bring her
down, that we might come at her bottom : But, upon
second consideration, we did not think it safe to let
her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the place
convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used to such
a sight as to fee a ship lie down on one side, and
heel it towards the shore, not perceiving her men,
who were at work on her bottom, with stages and
boats on the off-side, presently imagined the ship had
been cast away, and lay fast on the ground. Agree-
able to this supposition they surrounded us with ten
or twelve large boats, with a resolution, undoubtedly,
to plunder the ship, and to carry away those they
found alive for slaves to their king. But when they
perceived our men hard at work on the ship's bot-
tom and side, washing, graving, and stopping her, it
filled them all with such surprise, that they stood ga-
zing, as though they were confounded. Nor could we
imagine what their design was; however, for fear of
danger, we handed down arms and ammunition to
those at work, in order to defend themselves ; and
indeed this precaution was absolutely necessary; for,
in a quarter of an hour after, the natives, conclud-
ing it was really a shipwreck, and that we were sav-
ing our lives and goods, which they thought be-
longed to them, came down' upon our men, as
though it had been in a line of battle. We lay at
present but in a very unfit posture to fight; and be-
fore the stages could be got down, or the men in the
boat come on board as they were ordered, the Co-
chinchineses were upon them, and two of their boats
boarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold of
our men as prisoners. The sirst they seized was a
stout English sailor, who never fired his musket, like
a fool, as, I imagined, but laid it down in the boat;
but he knew what he was doing; for by main force
he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours, by
the two ears, and knocked his brains out against the
boat's gunnel: A Dutchmen that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down sive
more with the butt end of it-, however, this was doing
very little to their number; but a strange unexpect-
ed accident, which rather merits laughter than any
thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams,
where he caulked, to stop the leaks, had gotten
two kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stusf as the shipwrights use: The carpen-
ter's man had a great iron laddie with which he
used to supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as
two of the enemies entered the boat where the fel-
low stood, he saluted them with a full laddie of the
hot boiling liquor, which, the poor creatures being
half naked, made them roar out and jump into the
sea. Well done, Jack, (says the carpenter) i;ive them
the other doze: and so stepping forward himself,
takes a mop, and dipping it into the pitch-pot, he
and his man so plentifully flung it among them, as
that none escaped being scalded: Upon which they
all made the best of their way, crying and howling
in such a frightful manner, that in all my adventures
I never heard the like. And indeed never was I bet-
ter pleased with any conquest ihan I was with this,
there being so little bloodshed, and having an aver-
sion to killing such savage wretches (more than was
necessary), as knowing they came on errands which
their laws and customs made them think were just
and equitable. By this time, all things being in or-
der, and the ship swimming, they found their mis-
take, so they did not venture a second attack: Thus
ended our merry sight; and having got some rice,
bread, roots, and sixteen good hogs on board the
day before, we set sail, not daring to go into the
bay of Tonquin, but steered N. E. towards the islc
of Formosa, or as though we would go to the Manil-
las, or Philippine islands, for fear of meeting with
any European ships. When we anchored at the
isle Formosa, the inhabitants not only courteously
supplied us with provisions and fresh water, but dealt
very fairly and honestly with us in their bargains and
agreements. From this place we steered north, keep-
ing still off the coast of China, till we were beyond
all its ports where European ships usually come; and
at length being come to the latitude of thirty de-
grees, we resolved to put into the first trading port
we should come at; and standing for the shore, a.
boat came off two leagues to us with an old Portu-
guese pilot onboard, who offered his service; we
very gladly accepted him, and sent the boat back
again. And now, having the old man on board, I
talked to him of going to Nanquin, the most north-
ward part of the coast of China. 'What will you do
there? (said he smiling.) I told him we would sell
our cargo, and purchase calicoes, raw and wrought
silks, tea, &c. and so return the same way back.
O, (said he) you had better put in at Macao, where
you may buy China wares as cheap as at Nanquin,
and fell your opium at a greater advance. But, (laid
1) we are gentlemen as well as merchants, and de-
sign to fee thf great city of Pekin, and the magnificent
court of the Monarch of China. Why, then, (faid
he) you should go to Ningpo, where there is a na-
vigable river that goes through the heart of that
2
vast empire, two hundred and seventy leagues from
the sea, which crosses all the rivers, passes consider-
able hills, by the help of the sluices and gates, and
goes even up to the city of Pekin. You may go to
Nanquin, if you please, and travel to Pekin, and
there is a Dutch or English ship just before bound
that way. At the name of a Dutch or English ship
I was struck with confusion; they being as great a
terror to me in this vessel, as an Algerine man of war
is to them in the Mediterranean. The old' man find-
ing me troubled, Sir, (said he) I hope the Dutch are
not now at war with your nation? No, (said I) but
God knows what liberty they may take when out of
the reach of the law. Why, (fays he) what occasion
is there for peaceable merchants to fear? for, be-
lieve me, they never meddle with any but Pirates.
At the mentioning of the word pirates, my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, Sir, (said he) take what course you please,
I'll do you all theservice I can. Signor, (said I) I am
a little concerned at your mentioning pirates; I hope
there are none such in these seas, because you see
in what a weak condition we are to defend ourselves.
"O, Sir, (said he) if that's all, don't be concern- \
ed, I don't remember one in these seas these fifteen
years, except about a month ago one was seen in the
bay of Siam, but she is gone to the southward; nei-
ther was she built for a privateer, but was run away
with by a reprobate captain, and some of his men,
the right captain having been murdered by the Ma-
layans."
What! (said I, as though ignorant of what had
happened), did they kill the captain ?" No, (said
he) it is generally thought the Maiayans murdered
him; but perhaps they might procure them to do
it, and therefore they justly deserve hanging. The
rogues were lately uncovered in the bay of Siam,
in the river of Cambodia, by some Dutchmen who
belonged to the ship, and had much ado to escape
the five boats that pursued them, but they have all
given such an exact description of the ship, that
wherever they find her, they will be sure to know
her, and they have solemnly swore to give no quarter
to the captain or the seamen, but hang them every
one up at the yard-arm, without any formal business
of bringing them to a court of judicature."' -
Being sensible, that, having the old man on board,
he was incapable of doing me any mischief, Well,
Signor, (said I) it is for this very reason I would
have you carry us up to Nanquin, where neither
English nor Dutch ships come: And I must tell you
their captains are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent
rascals, that neither know what 'belongs to justice,
nor how to behave themselves as the laws of God
or nature direct; fellows that would prove mur-
derers to punish robbers, and take upon them to ad-
judge innocent men to death, without any proof to
prove them guilty; but perhaps I may live to call
them to an account for it, in a place where they may
be taught how justice is to be executed. And so I
told him all the story of buying the ship, and how
we were saved by the means of two men: That the
murder of the captain by the Malayans,».as also the
running away with the ship, I believed to be true;
but that we, who bought it, were turned pirates, was a
mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and foolish be-
haviour, when they attacked us, and the blood of those
men we killed in our own just defence lay to their
door, who sent to attack us by surprise.
"Sir, (said the old man, amazed) you have taken
the right course to steer to the north, and, if I might
advise you, I would have you sell your ship in China,
and buy or build another in that country; and I'll
procure people to buy the one and sell the other."
Well, but Signor, (said I) if I sell the ship in this
manner, I may bring some innocent persons into the
fame danger as I have gone through, perhaps worse,
even death itself, whereby I should be as guilty of
their murder as villanous executioners. "That
need not trouble you (fays the old man); I'll find a
way to prevent that; for these commanders you talk
of I know them very well, will inform them rightly
of the matter as you have related, and I am per-
suaded they will not only believe me, but act more
cautiously for the future." And will you deliver one
message from me to them ?" Yes, (said he) if you
will give it under your hand, that I may prove it is not
my own production." Hereupon I wrote a large ac-
. count of their attacking me in their long-boat; the
pretended reason and unjust design of it; that they
had done what they might be ashamed of, and could
not answer for at any tribunal in England. But this
letter was written in vain: Providence ordered things
another way. 'We failed directly for Nanquin, and
in about thirteen days fail, came to an anchor at the
south-west point of the great gulf of that place,
where we learned that two Dutch ships were gone
the length before us, and that we should certainly fall
into their hands. We were all at a great loss in this
exigency, and would very gladly have been on shore
almost any where; but our old pilot told me, that
if I would sail to the southward about two-and-for-
ty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchange,
where no European ships ever came, and where we
might consider what was further to be done. Ac-
cordingly we weighed anchor the next day, calling
only twice on shore by the way to get fresh water.
The country people very courteously sold us roots,
tea, rice, fowls, and other provisions. After five days
fail we came to the port, and landed with unspeak-
able joy. We resolved to dispose of ourselves and
effects in any other way possible, than enter on board
that ill-fated vessel more; for no state can be more
miserable than a continued fear, which is a life of
death, a confounder of our understandings, that sets
the imagination at work to form a thousand frightful
things that may never happen. And we scarce slept
one night, without dreaming of halters, yard-arms,
or gibbets; of fighting, being taken, and being kill-
ed; nay, so violent were our apprehensions, that we
would bruise our hands and heads against the sides of
the cabin, as though actually engaged. The story of
the Dutch cruelty at Ampona often came into our
thoughts when awake; and, for my part, I thought
my condition very hard, that, after so many dissicul-
ties, and such signal deliverances, I should be hanged
in my old age, though innocent of any crime that
deserved such punishment; but then religion would
seem to represent to me, as though the voice of it had
said, Consider, O man, what sins you have been for-
merly guilty of, which now thou art called to an ac-
count for, to expiate with thy blood! And as to thy
innocence, what art thou more innocent than thy
blessed redeemer Jesus Christ, who suffered for thy
offences, and to whose providence you ought to sub-
mittpet what will happen. After this, natural cou-
rage would inspire me to resist to the last drop of
blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be taken
by booriso, rascally Dutchmen, who had arts to tor-
ment beyond death itself.
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore, our
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehouse for
out goods; it was a little hut with a large warehouse
joining to it, all built with canes, and pallisadoed
round with large ones, to keep out pilfering thieves,
who are very numerous in that country. The ma-
gistrates allowed us a little guard during the night,
and we employed a centinel, with a kind of halbert,
for threepence a-day. The fair, or mart, we found
lad been over for sometime; however, there re-
mained in the river four junks and two Japan ships,
the merchants of the latter being on shore. In the
first place, our old pilot brought us acquainted with
the missionary Roman priests, who were converting
the people to Christianity: Two of them were re-
served, rigid, and austere, applying themselves to
the work they came about with great earnestness;
but the third, who was a Frenchman, called Father
Simon, was of a freer conversation, not seemingly
so serious and grave, yet no worse Christian than the
other two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the
other a Genoese. Father Simon, it seems, was ap-
pointed to go to Pekin, the royal ,feat of the Empe-
ror of the Chinese; and he only waited for another
priest, who was ordered from Macao to accompany
him. We never met together but he was prompt-
ing me to keep him company in his journey: Sir,
(said he) I will show you the glorious things of this
mighty empire, and a city, the city of Pekin, far
exceeding London or Paris, put them both together.
One day, in particular, being at dinner with him,
I showed some inclination to go, which made him
press the more upon me and my partner, to gain our
perfect consent. But, Father Simon, (said my part-
ner) what satisfaction can you have in our company,
whom you esieem as heretics, end consequently ohjeBs not *
worthy your regard? Oh! (said he) you may be as
good Catholics in time as those 1 hope to convert to
our religion. And so, (said I) we shall have you
preaching to us all the way, instead of pleasing us with
a description of the country. Sir, (said he) however
our religion may be vilified by some people, it is very
certain it neither divests us of good manners or Chri-
stian charity; and as we are gentlemen, as such we
may converse together, without making one another
uneasy.
But we shall leave him a while, to consider our
ship, and the merchandise'which we had to dispose
of. There was but very little trade in the place
where we were; and so I was once resolved to ven-
ture to sail to the river Kilam, and so to the city of
N 2
.
Nanquin, but Providence ordered it otherwise, by
our old pilot's bringing a Japan merchant to us to
fee what goods we had. He immediately bought
our opium, for which he gave us a very good price
in gold by weight, some wedges of which were about
ten or eleven ounces. It came into my head that
perhaps he might buy the ship too; and I ordered
his interpreter to propose it to him. He said no-
thing then, but shrunk up his shoulders; yet in a few
days afterhe came, accompanied by a missionary priest,
who was his interpreter, with this proposal, That as
he had bought a great quantity of our goods, he had not mo-
tiey enough to purchase ourship; but if I pleased, he would
hire her with all my men, to go to Japan, and from thence
with another leading to the Philippine islands, the freight
of both which he would very willingly pay to us before;
and at their return to Japan, would buy the ship. Up-
on this we alked the captain and his men, if they
were willing to go to Japan; to which they unani-
mously agreed. While this was in agitation, the
young man my nephew left to attend me, told me,
That as 1 did net care to accept this prospeB of advan-
tage, he would manage it f$r me as I pleased, and ren-
der me a faithful account of his success, which should be
wholly mine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part
with him; but considering it might be for the young
man's good, I discoursed my partner about it, who,
of his own generosity, gave him his share of the ves-
sel,so that I could do no otherwise than give him mine;
but however, we let him have but the property of
half os it, and reserved a power, that when we met in
England, if he had obtained success, he ihould ac-
count to us for one half of the profits of the ship's
freight, and the other should be his own. Thus hav-
ing taken a writing under his hand, away he sailed
to Japan, where the merchant dealt very honestly
by him, got him a licence to come on shore, sent
him loaded to the Philippines with a Japanese super-
cargo, from whence he came back again loaded with
European goods, cloves, and' other spiceries. By
this voyage he cleared a considerable sum of money,
which determined him not to sell his ship, but to
trade on his own account: So he returned to the
Manillas, where getting acquaintance, he made his
ship free, was hired by the governor privately to go
to Acapulco, in America, on the Mexican coast, with
a licence to travel to the great city of Mexico. This
trassic turned out greatly to account, and my friend
finding means to get to Jamaica, returned nine years
after exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to
consider of those men who had saved our lives when
in the river of Cambodia; and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of them a small sum
of money, making the Englishman a gunner, and
the Dutchman a boatswain, with which they were
very well contented.
We were now above iooo leagues farther from
home than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another fair to
be kept in a month's time, we might not only pur-
chase all sorts of that country's manufactures, but ve-
ry possibly find some Chinese junks, or vessels from
Tonquin, to be sold, which would carry us and our
goods wheresoever we pleased. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue; and to divert ourselves, we
took several little journeys in the country. About
ten days after we parted with our ship, we travelled
to see the city of Nanquin. This city lies in latitude
30 deg. north of the line ; it is regularly built, and
the streets are exactly straight, and cross one another
in direct lines, which sets it out to the greatest ad-
vantage. At our return, we found the priest was
come from Macao that was to accompany Father
N3
Simon to Pekin. That father earnestly solicited rrte
to accompany him, and I referred him to my part-
ner. In short, we both agreed, and prepared ac-
cordingly; and we. were so lucky as to have liberty
to travel among the retinue of one of their Manda-
rines, who is a principal magistrate, and much re-
verenced by the people.
We were five-and-twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated; and .yet their pride is infi-
nitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that the
priests themselves derided them. As we passed by
the house of one of their country gentlemen, two
leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour, forsooth,
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles. Ne-
ver wab Don Quixote so exactly imitated, never such
a compound of pomp and poverty seen before!
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch,
with all its tawdry trappings, and hanging sleeves,
tassels, &c. though torn and rent in almost every
part: His vest underneath it was no less dirty, but
more greasy, resembling the most exquisite sloven,
or greasy butcher. His horse (worse than Rosi-
nante, or the famous steed of the doughty Hudibras)
was a poor starved decrepit thing, that would not
fell for thirty shillings in England: And yet this
piece of worfhipsui por.p was attended with ten ot
twelve slavts, who guarded their mailer to his coun-
try-seat. We stopped at a little village for refrcsli-
ment: And when we came by the country-feat os
this great man, we found him sitting under a tree
before his door, eating a mess of boiled rice, with a
great piece of garlic in the middle, and a bag silled
with green pepper by him, and aiiLther plant like
ginger, together with a piece of lean mutton in it;
this was his Worship's repast: But pray observe the
state of the fool! two women slaves brought him his
food; which being laid before him, two others ap- .
peared to perform their respective ossices; one fed
him with a spoon, while the other scraped osf what
fell upon his beard and taffety vest, and gave it to a
particular favourite to eat. And thus we left the
wretch pleased with the conceit of our admiring his
magnificence, which rather merited our scorn and de-
testation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two servants, and the old Portuguese
pilot, whose charges we bore, and who served us as an
interpreter by the way. We had scarce been a week
at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us, Ah! Signior
Jngli/e, (said he) me something tell you make your heart
glad, but make me sorry; for you bring me here twenty-
five days journey, and now you leave me go back alone;
and which way shall I make my port after, without dt
ship, without de horse, without pecune? so he called
money in his broken Latin. He then informed me,
that there was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish
merchants in the city, who were preparing to set out
'for Muscovy by land within fix weeks; and that he
was certain we would take this opportunity, and con-
sequently that he must go home by himself. Indeed
this news infinitelyfurprised and pleased me. Are you
certain of this? (iaid I.) Tes, Sir, (said he) me sure it's
true. And so he told me, that having met an old ac-
quaintance of his, an Armenian, in the street, who was
among them, and who had come from Astracan, with a
design to go to Tonquin, but for certain reasons having
altered his resolution, he was now resolved to go with
the caravan, and to return by the river Wilga to Asira-
can. We 1, Signior, (siid 1) don't be discontented
about your returning alone; and if by this means I
can find a passage to England, it will be your own
fault if you return to Macao at all. And so consulting
with my partner what was best to be done, he re-
ferred it to me as I pleased, having our affairs so well
fettled at Bengal, that if we could convert the good
voyage we had made in China silks, wrought raw,
he would be satisfied to go to England, and so re-
turn to Bengal in the company's ships. Thus resolv-
ed, we agreed, that if our pilot would go with us, we
would bear his charges either to Muscow or England;
and to give him in a present the sum of 170I. Ster-
ling. Hereupon we called him in, and told him the
cause of his complaint should be removed, if he
would accompany us with the caravan; and there-
fore we desired to know his mind. At this he shook
his head, Great long journey, (said he) me no pecune,
carry me to Muscow, or keep me there. But we soon
put him out of that concern, by making him sensible
os what we would give him here to lay out to the
best advantage; and as for his charges, we would
set him safe on shore, God willing, either in Musco-
vy or England, as he pleased, at our own charge, ex-
cept the carriage of his goods. At this proposal he
was like a man transported, telling us he would go
with us all the world over; and we made prepara-
tions for our journey ; but it was near four months
before all the merchants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the' pilot went
express to the port where we first put in, to dispose
of what goods had been left there, while I accom-
panied a Chinese merchant, who was going to NanT
quin, and there bought 29 pieces of damask, with a-
bout 300 more of other fine silks; and by the time
my partner returned to Pekin, I had them all car-?
ried thither: Our cargo in silks amounted to 4500I.
Sterling, which, together with tea, fine calicoes,
nutmegs and cloves, loaded 18 camels for our share,
hesides what we rode upon, with two or three spare
horses, and two more- loaded with provisions: The
company now was very great, making about 400
horse, and about 12c men, well armed and provided.
We were of several nations, among whom were five
Scots merchants inhabiting in Muscow, and well ex-
perienced in trade.
We set out from Pekin the beginning os February
our style; and in two days more, we passed through
the gate of the great China wall, which was erected
as a fortification against the Tartars, being 108 Eng-
lish miles long. We then entered a country not near
so populous, chiefly underlie poweV of plundering
Tartars, several companies of whom we perceived
riding on poor starved horses, contemptible as them-
selves, without order or discipline. One time our
leader for the day gave us leave to go a-hunting:
But what do you think we hunted? only a parcel of
sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the world for
wildness and swiftness: But while we were pursuing
this game, it was our chance to meet with about
forty Tartars, who no sooner perceived us, but one
of them blew a horn, at the sound of which there
soon appeared a troop of forty or fifty more, at about
a mile's distance. Hereupon one of the Scots mer-
chants (who knew their way) ordered us to advance
towards them, and attack them immediately. As
we advanced, they let fly a volley of arrows, which
happily fell a little short of us: This made us halt a
little, to return the compliment with bullets; and
then being led up by the bold Scot, we fired our
pistols in their faces, and drew out our swords; but
there was no occasion; for they flew like timorous
sheep, and only three of them remained, beckoning
to the rest to come back. But our brave commander
gallops up to them by himself, shot one dead, knocks
another off his horse, while the third ran away: And
thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the Empe-
ror of China's dominions; and at length coming to-
one of their towns about a day and a half's jour-
ney from the city of Naum, I wanted to buy a
camel. The person I spoke to would have brought
me one, but, like a fool, I must go along with him,
about two miles from the village. My old pilot and
I walked on foot, forsooth, for some variety, when
coming to the place where the camels were kept as
in a park guarded by Chinese soldiers, we there a-
greed and bought one, which the Chinese man that
came with me led along the road. But we had not
gone far, before we were attacked by five Tartars,
mounted on horseback, two os whom seized the
man, took the camel from him, and rode away,
.while the other three approached us, the first of
whom suddenly seized me as I was drawing my
sword, the second knocked me down; but my old
trusty Portuguese, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
which I knew nothing of, and coming up to the
fellow that struck me, he, with one hand, pulled
him off his horse, and then shot him dead upon
the spot; then taking his feymitar, he struck at the
man that stopt us, but missing him, cut osf one of
his horse's ears, the pain of v\ hich made him throw
his rider to the ground. The poor Chinese, who
had led the camel, seeing the Tartar down, runs to
him, and seizing upon his pole-axe, wrenched it from
his hands, and knocked his brains out. But there
was another Tartar to deal with, who seeming neither
inclined to fight, nor to sly, and my old man hav-
ing begun to charge his pistol, the very sight of it
struck such a terror into the wretch, that away he
scoured, leaving my old pilot, rather my champion
and defender, an absolute victory.
By this time, being awakened from my trance, I
began to open my eyes, wondering where I was, hav-
ing quite forgot all that passed; but my fenses re-
turning, and feeling a great pain in my head, and
seeing the blood was running over my clothes, 1 in-
stantly jumped upon my feet, and grasped my sword
in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; but
no enemies now remained, except the dead Tartar.,
with his horse standing by him. The old man see-
ing me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran to-
wards me, and embraced me wirh the greatest tender-
ness, at the fame time examining into my wound,
which was far from being mortal. When we returned
to the village, the man demanded payment for his
camel, which I refusing, we brought the cause be-
fore a Chinese judge, who acted with great impar-
tiality: Having heard both sides, he asked the Chi-
nese man that went with me, whoso servant he was?
Sir, (said he) I am nobody's, but went with the
stranger, at his request: Why then, (said the judge),
you were the stranger's servant for the time, and the
camel being delivered to his servant, it is the fame
as though delivered to himself, and accordingly he
must pay for it. Indeed the case was so fairly stated,
that I had nothing to object to it: So having paid
for that I was robbed of, I sent for another, but did
not go myself^to fetch it, as I had enough of that
sj;ort before.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire, so fortisied, as some will tell you, that millions
of Tartars cannot batter down their walls; by which
certainly one might think one of our cannons would
do more execution than all their legions.
When we were within a day's march of that city,
we had information that the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent ta
protect them from the numerous bodies of Tartars
that lately appeared about the city. This news put
us into great consternation; but, obeying the orders,
we stopt, and two days after, there came two hun-
dred soldiers from a garrison os the Chinese, and
three hundred more from Naum: Thus guarded
both in the front and rear, with our men on the
slanks, we boldly advanced, thinking we were able
to combat with ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they
appeared.
N 6
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well situated town called Changu, after having pass-
ed a river, and entered upon a desert of about 15
or ;6 miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dull
that was raised, that the enemy was approaching.
This much dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took
notice of it, and called out, Signor Inglefe, those
fellows mult be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
and I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will
all run away. Why, Signor, (said I) what shall be
done in this cafe? Done! (fays he) why, let fifty of
our men advance, and slank them on each wing. I
know the fellows will fight well enough in company.
We accordingly took his advice, and marched fifty
to the right wing, and the fame number to the left,
and with the rest made a line of reserve, leaving the
last two hundred men to guard the camels, or to as-
sist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came for-
ward, viewing our posture, and traversing the ground
on the front of our line. Hereupon we ordered the
two wings to move on, and give them a salute with
their shot, which accordingly was done. This put
a stop to their proceedings; for immediately wheel-
ing off to their left, they all marched away, and we
saw no more os them. They had undoubtedly given
an account to their companions of what reception
they might expect, which made them so easily give
over their enterprise.
When we came to the city of Nauni, we returned
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
crowns among the soldiers that guarded us. We
rested there one day, and then proceeded on our
travels, pasting several great rivers and deserts; and
on the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of
'Muscovy, the first town* of which was called'Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coming in-
to a Christian country, made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it: He smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, (said he) except the
Russian soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants
of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this coun-
try, for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the
most ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna by moderate
journeys, and found convenient garrisons on the road,
silled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodgings of travellers;
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans,
worshipping the moon, sun, and stars. We parti-
cularly observed this idolatry near the river Arguna,
at a city inhabited by Tartars and Russians, called
Nerifinkey. Being curious to fee their way of living,
while the caravan continued to rest themselves in this
city, I went to one of their villages, where there was
to be one of their solemn sacrifices. There I beheld,
upon the stump of an old tree, an idol of wood, more
ugly than the representation of the devil himself: Its.
head resembled no living creature: Its ears were as
big and as high as a goat's horns, a crooked nose, sour
cornered -mouth, and horrible teeth: It was clothed
in sheeps skins, had a great Tartar bonnet, with two
horns growing through it, and was eight feet high,
without feet, legs, or proportion. Before this idol
there lay sixteen or seventeen people, who brought
their offerings, and were making their prayers, while
at a distance stood three men, and one bullock, as
victims to this ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatest
astonishment and reflection; which soon turning to
rage and fury, I rode up to the image, and cut in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns,
while one of miy men that was with me, pulled at it
by his sheep-skin garment. Immediately an hideous
howling and outcry ran through the village, and two
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
or three hundred people coming about our ears, we
were obliged to sly for it.
But I had not done with the monster ; for the ca-
ravan being to rest three nights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and that I was
resolved to take four or five men well armed with
me, in order to destroy the idol, aud show the people
how little reason they had to trust in a god who could
not save himself. At first he laughed at me, repre-
senting the danger of it, and when it was destroyed,
what time had .we to preach to them better things,
whose zeal and ignorance was in the highest degree,
and both unparallelled; that if I should be taken by
them, I should be served as a poor Russian, who con-
temned their worship; that is, to be stripped naked,
and tied to the top of the idol, there shot at with
their arrows till my body was full of them, and then
burnt a sacrifice to the monster: But, Sir, (faid he)
since your zeal carries you so far, rather than you
should be alone, I will accompany you, and bring a
stout fellow equal to yourself, if you will, to assist
you in this design: And accordingly he brought one
Captain Richardson, who hearing the story, readily-
consented; but my partner*declined it, being alto-
gether out of his way: And so we three, and my
man-servant, resolved to execute this exploit about
. midnight; but upon second thoughts we deferred it
to next night, by reason that the caravan being to
go from thence next morning, we mould be out of
the governor's power. The better to esfectuate my
design, I procured a Tartar's sheep-skin robe, a bon-
net, with a bow and arrows, and every one of us
got the like habits. The first night we spent in mix-
ing combustible matter with aquavitæ, gun-powder,
&c. having a good quantity of tar in a little pot; next
night we came up to the idol about eleven o'clock,
the moon being up; we found none guarding it,
but we perceived a light in the house, where we had;
seen the priest; before. One of our men was for fi ing
the hut, another for killing the people, and a third
for making them prisoners, while the idol was de-
stroying. We agreed to the latter; so knocking at
the door, we seized the firit that opened it, and stop-
ping his mouth, and tying his feet, we left him. We
served the other two in the like manner; and then
the Scots merchant set fire to the composition,
which frightened then; so much, that we brought
them all away prisoners to their wooden god. There
we fell to work with him, daubing him all over with
tar mixed with tallow and brimstone, stopped his eye s,
ears, and mouth full of gun-powder, with a great
piece of wild fire in his bonnet, and environed it with
dry forage. All this being done, we unloosed and
ungagged the prisoners, and set the idol on fire,
which the gun-powder blowing up, the shape of it
was deformed, rent, and split, which the forage ut-
terly consumed; for we staid to see its destruction,
lest the ignorant idolatrous people should have thrown
themselves into the slames. And thus we came a-
way undiscovered, the morning appearing as busy
among our fellow-travellers, as nobody could have
suspected any other but that we had been in our beds
all night..
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a
small distance from the city, when there came a
multitude of the people of the country to the gates
of the city, demanding satisfaction of the Russian
governor for insulting their priests, and burning
their great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the
fun, and no mortal would violate his image but
some Christian miscreants; and being already no less
than thirty thousand strong, they announced war a-
gainst him and all his Christians.
The governor assured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been a-
broad; that indeed there was 3 caravan, that went a-
«
way that morning, and that he would fend after
them to inquire into it; and whoever were the of-
fenders, should be delivered into their hands. This
fatisfied them for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if any of us had done it, we
should make all the haste away possible, while he
kept them in play as long as he could. -Upon this
we marched two days and two nights, stopping but
very little, till at last we arrived at a village call-
ed Plothus, and hasted to Jarawena, another of the
Czar's colonies. On the third day, having entered
the desert, and passed the lake called Shaks Oser,
we beheld a numerous body of horse on the other
side of it to the north, who supposed we had passed
on that side of the lake; but having either sound
their mistake, or being certainly informed of the
way we took, they came upon us towards the dusk
of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp be-
tween two little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and some felled trees,
with which we covered our rear; a precaution we
always took, and which we had just finished when
the enemy came up. They did not fall on U8 im-
mediately, but sent three messengers, demanding
the men who had insulted their priests, and burnt
their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might be
burnt with sire; that if this was cemplied with, they
would peaceably depart; but if not, they would de-
stroy one and all of us. Our men stared at one an-
other on receipt of this message, but Nobody was the
word, as indeed nobody knew it, but he who did
it. Upon which the leader of the caravan returned
for answer, that they were peaceable merchants,
who meddled with none of their priests and gods;
and therefore desired them not to disturb us, and
put us to the necessity of defending ourselves. But
so far was this from satisfying them, that the next
morning, coming to our right, they let fly a volley
of arrows among us, which happily did not hurt any,
because we sheltered ourselves behind our baggage.
We expected, however, to come to a closer engage-
ment; but were happily saved by a cunning fellow,
a Cossack, who obtaining leave of the leader to go
out, mounts his horse, rides directly from our rear,
and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, as
though he had been sent express, and tells them a
formal story, that the wretches who had burnt the
Cham Chi-Thaungu, were gone to Siheilka, with
a resolution to burn the god Shal Isar, belonging to
the Tongueses. Upon which, believing this cun-
ning Tartar, who w?s servant to our Muscovites, a-
way they drove to Siheilka, and in less'than three
minutes were out of our sight, nor did we ever hear
fef them more, -jf-
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rest-
ed five days, and then entered into a frightful de-
sert, which held us twenty-three days march, in-
fested with several small companies of robbers, or
Mogul Tartars, who never had the courage to at-
tack us. After we had passed over this desert, we
found several garrisons to defend the caravans from
the violence of the Tartars. In particular, the go-
vernor of Adinlkoy offered us a guard of fifty men
to the next station, if we apprehended any danger.
The people here retained the fame paganism and bar-,
barity, only they were not so dangerous, being con-
quered by the Muscovites. The clothing, both of
men and women, is of the skins of beasts, living un-
der the ground in vaults and caves, which have a
communication with one another. They have idols
almost in every family; besides, they adore the fun
and stars, water and snow; and the least uncom-
mon thing that happens in the elements, alarms them
as much as thunder and lightning does the unbe-
lieving Jews.
Nothing remarkable occurred in our march through
this country. When we had got through the de-
sert, after two days further travel, we came to Je-
nezo, a Muscovite city, on the great river so call-
ed, which, we were told, parted Europe from Asia.
The inhabitants here were very little better, though
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder
will cease, when I inform my reader of what was
observed to me, that the Czar rather converts the
Tartars with soldiers than clergymen, and is more
proud to make them faithful subjects than good
Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
a pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country,
for want os good management and people, and those
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where the
Muscovite criminals are banished to, if they are not
put to death. The next city we came to, was the
capital city of Siberia, called Toboiski, when, having
been almost seven months on our journey, and winter
drawing on apace, my partner and I consulted about
our particular asfairs, in what manner we should dis-
pose of ourselves. We had been told of fledges and
rein deer to carry us over the snow in the winter
season, the snow being frozen so hard, that the
fledges can run upon the surface without any danger
of going down. As I was bound to England, I now
behoved either to go with the caravan to Jeroilaw,
fiom thence(west to Narva, and the Gulf os Finland,
and lo by land or sea to Denmark; or else 1 must
leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, and
so to Archangel, where I was certain of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh. One
nij.'ht I happened to get into the company of an il-
lustrious but banished prince, whose company and
virtues were such as made me propose to him a me-
thod how he might obtain his liberty. My dear
friend, (said he) as I am here happily free from my
miserable greait.efs, with all its attendants of pride, am-
bit ion, avarices and luxury; ifI should escape from this
place, these pernicious feeds may again revive, to my los-
ing disquietude; therefore let me remain in a blessed con-
finement, fr I am but fe/h, a mere man, with passions
and affections as such: 0 be not my friend and tempter
too! Struck dumb with surprise, I stood silent awhile,
nor was he in less disorder; by which perceiving htf
wanted to give vent to his mind, I desired him to con-
sider of it, and so withdrew. But about two hours
after he came to my apartment: Dear friend, (said
he) though I cannot consent to accompany you, 1 shall have
this fatisfaSiion in parting, that you leave me an honest
man f ill; but as a testimony of my affection to you, be
pleased to accept this present of fables.'
In return for this compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lordship, with a small present
of tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little
wedges of gold; but he only accepted the tea, one
piece of damnslij and a piece of gold, for the curiosity
of the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not long after,
he sent for me, and told me, that what he had re-
fused himself, he hoped upon his account I would
grant to another, whom he ihould name; in short, it
was his only son, who was about 200 miles distance
from him, on the other side of the Oby, whom he
said he would send for, if I gave my consent. This
I soon complied with; upon which he sent his ser-
vants next day for his son, who returned in twenty
days time, bringing seven horses loaded with valuable
furs. At night the young lord was conducted in-
cognito into our apartment, where his father present-
ed him to me. We then concerted the best wuys
for travelling, and after having bought a considerable
quantity of sables, black fox skins, sine ermines,
&c. (which I fold at Archangel at a good price), wo
.set out from this city the beginning of June, making
3 small caravan, being about thirty-two horses and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
camels, of which I represented the head. My young
lord had with him a very faithful Siberian servant,
well acquainted with the roads. We shunned the
principal towns and cities, as Tumen, Soli Kamoskoi,
and several others, by reason of their strictness in
examining travellers, lest any of the banished persons
of distinction should escape. Having passed the ri-
ver Kama, we came to a city on the European side,
called Soloy Kamoskoi, where we found the people
mostly Pagans as before. We then passed a desert
of about two hundred miles over, but in other
places it is near seven hundred. In passing this wild
place, we were beset by a troop of men on horse-
back, and about five-and-forty men armed with bows
and arrows. At first they looked earnestly on us,
and then placed themselves in our way. We were
above sixteen men, and drew up a little line before
our camels. My young lord sent out his Siberian
servant to know who they were; but when he ap-
proached them, he neither knew a word they faid,
nor would they admit him to come near them at his
peril, but prepared to shoot him. At his return he
told us he believed them to be Calmuc Tartars, and
that he thought there were more of them upon the
desert. This was but a small comfort to us; yet
seeing a little grove about a quarter of a mile's di-
stance, we moved to it, by the old Portuguese pilot's
advice, without meeting with any opposition. Here
we found a marshy piece of ground, and a spring of
water running into a little brook on one side, which
joined another like it a little farther off, and these
two formed the head of the river called Writska.
As soon as we arrived, we went to work, cutting
down great arms off the trees, and laying them hang-
ing (not quite off) from one tree to another. In this
situation we waited the motions of the enemy, with-
out perceiving any advancement they made towards
us. About two hours before night, being joined by
\
\
\
ROBINSON CRUSOE. '309
some others, in all about fourscore horse, among
whom we fancied were some women, they came up-
on us with great fury. We fired without ball, call-
ing to them in the Russian tongue to know their
business; but they, either not knowing, or seeming
not to understand us, came directly to the wood-side,
not considering that we were so fortified as that they
could not break in'. Our old pilot the Portuguese,
proved both our captain and engineer, and desired
us not to fire till they came within pistol-shot; and
when he gave the word of command, then to take
the surest aim : But he did not bid us give fire, till
they were within two pikes length of us, and then
we killed fourteen of them, wounded several, as also
their horses, having every one of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least. So much
were they surprised at our undauntedness, that they
retired about a hundred roods of us. In the mean
while, we loaded our pieces again, and sallying out,
secured four or five of their horses, whose riders we
found were killed, and perceived them to be Tar-
tars. About an hour after, they made another at-
tempt, to fee where they might break in; but find-
ing us ready to receive them, they retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthen-
ing our situation, and barricading the entrances in-
to the woods; but when day-light came, we had a
very unwelcome discovery; for the enemy being en-
couraged by their assistance, had set up eleven or
twelve tents in form of a camp, about three quarters
of a mile from us. I must confess I was never more
concerned in my life, giving myself and all that I had
over for lost; and my partner declared, that as the
loss of his goods would be his ruin, before they should
be taken from him, he would fight to the last drop
of his blood. As we could not pretend to force our
way, we had recourse to a stratagem; we kindled a
large fire which burnt all night; and no sooner was
1
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
it dark, but we pursued our journey towards the
pole, or north star, and travelling all night, by six'
o'clock in the morning we came to a Russian village
called Kertza, and from thence came to a large town
named Ozonoys, where we heard that several troops
of Calmuc Tartars had been abroad upon the de-
sert, but that we were past all danger. In five days
after we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzedga;
from thence we came to Lawrenskoy, on the third of
July, where providing ourselves with two luggage
boats and a convenient bark, we embarked the se-
venth, and arrived at Archangel the eighteenth, af-
ter a year five months and three days journey, in-
cluding the eight months and odd days at Tobolski.
We came from Archangel the twentieth of August
in the same year, and arrived at Hamburgh the thir-
tieth os September. Here my partner and I made
a very good sale of our goods, both those of China
and Siberia; when, dividing our effects, my share
came to 3475I. 17s. 3d. after all the losses we had
sustained, and charges we had been at. Here the
young lord took his leave of me, in order to go to
the court of Vienna, not only to seek protection, but
to correspond with his father's friends. After we
had staid four months in Hamburgh, I went from
thence over land to the Hague, where, embarking in
the packet, I arrived in London the tenth of January
1705, after ten years and nine months absence from
England.
311
ROBINSON CRUSOE'S VISION of fi:e ANGE-
LIC WORLD.
Chap. I. Of Solitude.
HOWEVER solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of the world, in company and
conversation, yet it is a happy state of exemption
from a sea of trouble, an inundation of vanity and
vexation, of confusion and disappointment. While
we enjoy ourselves, neither the joy nor sorrow of
other men affect us: We are then at liberty, with
the voice of our foul, to speak to God. By this
we shun such frequent trivial discourse, as even be-
comes an obstruction to virtue; aud how often do
we find, that we had reason to wish we had not been
in company, or said nothing when we were there?
for either we offimd God by the impiety os our dis-
course, or lay ourselves open to the violence of de-
signing people by our unguarded expressions, and fre-
quently feel the coldness and treachery of prerended
friends, when once involved in trouble and affliction;
of such unfaithful intimates (I should fay enemies)
who rather by false inuendos would accumulate
miseries upon us, than honestly assist us when suffer-
ing under the hard hand of adversity. But in a
state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard,
except by the great Majesty of heaven, how happy
are we in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with
our Maker!. It is then we make him our friend,
which sets us above the envy and contempt of wick-
ed men. When a man converses with himself, he
is sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean not by fol tude, that a man should
retire into a cell, a desert, or a monastery; which
would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
strains; for as men are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther, so there is a retirement of the soul with which
it converses in heaven, even in the midst of men;
and indeed no man is more fit to speak freely than
he who can, without any violence to himself, refrain
his .tongue, or keep silence altogether. As to religion,
it is by this the soul gets acquainted with the hidden
mysteries of the holy writings; here she finds those
floods of tears, in which good men wash themselves
day and night, and only makes a visit to God and his
holy angels. In this conversation the truest peace
and most solid joy are to be sound; it is a continual
feast of contentment on earth, and the means of at-
taining everlasting happiness in heaven.
Chap. II. Of Honesty.
Honesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons. In this there are seve-
ral degrees; to pay every man his own is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all mankind is
the chancery law of honesty; and this chancery-court
is in every man's breast, where his conscience is a lord
chancellor. Hence it is that a miser, though he
pays every body their own, cannot be an honest man,
when he does not discharge the good offices that are
incumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous person:
for faith the prophet Isaiah, chap, xxxii. ver. 7, 8.
The instruments of a churl are evil; he devifeth wicked
devices to dstroy the poor with lying words, even when
the needy speaketh right; but the liberal soul devifeth
liberal things, and by liberal things shall hesland. It is
certainly honesty to do every thing the law requires;
but should we throw every poor debtor in prison till
he has paid the utmost farthing, hang every malefac-
tor without mercy, exact the penalty of every bond,
and the forfeiture of every indenture, this would be
downright cruelty, and not honesty; and it is con-
3'3
trary to that general rule, To do to another that which
you would have done unto you. Sometimes necessity
snakes an honest man a knave; and a rich man an
honest man, because he has no occasion to be a knave.
The trial of honesty is this : Did you ever want bread,
and had your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would
starve rather than eat it? Were you ever arrested
having in your custody another man's cash, and would
rather go to jail, than break it? If so, this indeed
may be reckoned honesty: Fop king Solomon tells
us, that a good name is better than life, and is a pre-
cious ointment, and which when a man has once loJl)
he has nothing left worth keeping.
Chap. III. Of suffering AffliBions,
Afflictions are common to all mankind; and
whether they proceed from losses, disappointments,
or the malice of men, they often bring their ad-
vantages along with them : For this shows man the
vanity and deceitfulness of this life, and is an occa-
sion of rectifying our measures, and bringing us to
a more modest opinion of ourselves: It tells us how
necessary the assistance of divine grace is unto us,
when life itself becomes' a burden, and death even
-desirable: But when the greatest oppression comes
upon us, we must hr;ve recourse to patience, begging
of God to give us that virtue; and the more com-
posed we are under any trouble, the more commend-
able is our wisdom^ and the larger will be our re-
compence.^ Let the provocation be what it will,
whether from a good-natured and conscientious, or
a wicked, perverse, and vexatious man, all this we
mould take as from the over-ruling hand of God,
as a punishment for our sins. Many times injured
innocence may be abused by false oaths, or the power
of wicked, jjealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rife the higher the more it
is depressed; while the justice of God is eminently
remarkable in punishing those, One way or other,
who desire to endeavour to procure the downfal of
an innocent man: Nor does God fail comforting an
afflicted person, who with tears and prayers solicits
the throne of Heaven for delivei;tice and protection.
David fays, that his foul was full of trouble, and his.
life drew mar unto the grave. But certainly David's
afflictions made .him eminently remarkable,1 as par-
ticularly when pursued by King Saul, and frunted as
a partridge over the mountains. But one thing
which stands by innocence, is the love of God; for
were we to suffer disgrace, nay, an ignominious death
itself, what consolation does our innocence procure
.at our latest conflict, our last moments!'
Chap. IV. Of the Immorality of Conversation^ and
the vulgar Errors of Behaviour.
As conversation is a great part of human happw
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet-
tempered man, who is always lit for it;-to fee an
air of humour and pleasantnets sit ever upon his
brow, and even something angelic in his very coun-
tenance: Whereas, if we oblerve a designing man
we shall find a mark of involuntary sadness break in
upon his joy, and a certain insurrection in the sou!,
the natural concomitant of profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, or a
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders
it unfit for conversation 5 for it rather inspires us to
innocent mirth, without such a counterfeit joy as
vitious men appear with; and indeed wit is as con-
sistent with religion, as religion is with good man-
ners; nor is there any thing in the limitation of vir-
tue and religion that should abate the pleasures of
this world, but on the contrary, rather serves to in-
crease them.
On the other hand, many men, by their own vice
and intemperance, disqualify themselves for conver-
sation. Conversation is immoral, where the discourse
is indecent, immodest, scandalous, slanderous, and
abusive. How great is their folly, and how much
do they expose themselves, when they affront their
best friend, even God himself, who laughs at the
fool when his fear cometh?
The great scandal atheistical and immoral discourse
gives to virtue ought, methinks, to be punished by
all good magistrates: Make a man once cease to be-
lieve a god, and he has nothing left to limit his foul.
How incongruous is it to government, that a man
shallbe punished for drunkenness, and yet have li-
berty to affront, and even deny the Majesty of hea-
ven? When if, even among men, one gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, or perhaps speaks an
affronting word, a quarrel will ensue, and a combat,
and perhaps murder be the consequence: At the
least, he will prosecute him at law with the utmost
virulence and oppression.
The next thing to be refrained, is obscene dis-
course, which is the language only of proficients in
debauchery, who never repent but in a gaol or hos-
pital; and whose carcases relish no better than their
discourse, till the body becomes too nasty for the
foul to stay any longer in it.
Nor is false talking to be less avoided; for lying
is the sheep's clothing hung upon the wolf's back:
It is the Pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the hy-
pocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak; it is Joab's embrace, and Judah's kiss; in a
word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even im-
possible too: Others lie for gain, to deceive, delude,
and betray: And a third lies for. sport, o, i'or fun.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
3i6
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
cious, who foment differences, and carry tales from
one house to another, in order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard to reverence or
truth.
Chap. V. Of tke present slate of Religion in the
world.
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion
than religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity: And
it is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of
people there are furnished with -the powers of reason
and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned to the grossest
ignorance and depravity. But it would be unchari-
table for us to imagine (as some Papists abounding
with too much ill-nature, the only scandal to religion,
do) that they will certainly be in the state of damna-
tion after this life; for how can w.e think it con-
sistent with the mercy and goodness of an infinite
Being, to damn those creatures, when he has not
furnished them with the lights of his gospel? or how
can such- proud, conceited, and cruel bigots, pre-
scribe rules to the juitice and mercy of God $
We are told by some people, that the great image
'which King Nebuchadnezzar set-up to be adored by
his people, held the representation of the sun in its
right hand, as the principal object of adoration.
But to wave this discourse of heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are there held among
Christians! And how do we doom one another to
the devil, while all profess to worship die same Deity,
and do expect the same salvation!
When I was at Portugal, there was held at that
time the court of justice of the Inquisition. All the
Criminals were carried in procession to the great
church, where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvas, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the catholic faith and lilessed Vir-
gin.
I am sorry to make any reflection upon Christians;
but indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the
most cruel and mercenary upon earth : And a very ju-
dicious person, who travelled through Italy from Tur-
key, tells us, "That there is only the face and out-
ward pomp of religion there; that the church pro-
tects murderers and assassins, and then delivers the
civil magistrates over to Satan for doing justice; in-
terdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches
for want of paying a few ecclesiastical dues, and so
puts a stop to religion for want of their money; that
the court of Inquisition burnt two men for speaking
dissionourably of the Blessed Virgin: And the mis-
sionaries of China tolerated the worshipping the de-
vil by their new converts : That Italy was the theatre,
where religion was the grand opera; and that the
Popisti clergy were no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in-PoIand, .they deny-Christ to be
the Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the nesh.
And as ta their Protestants; they are- the followers
of Lselius SocinuS; who denied our Saviour's divi-
nity; and have no concern about the divine inspira-
tion of the Holy Ghost. .
• In Muscovy their, churches are built of wood, and
indeed they have but wooden priests, though of the
Greek church: They pray as much to St. Nicholas,
as Papists do to the Virgin Mary, for protection in
all their dissiculties and afflictions.
As to Lutherans, they only differ from she Ro-
mans in believing confubstantiation, instead of tran-
fubstantiation; but, like them, they are much pleas-
ed with the external gullantry and pomp,, more than
the true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crowded with them, and the churches
4
O 3 .
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
full of women ; but surely never was a nation so fu.I
of blind guides, so ignorant os religion, and even as
void of morals, as those people who consess their sins
to them.
Does it not seem strange, that while all men own
the Divine Being, their should be so many differ-
ent opinions as to the manner of paying him obedi-
ence in the Christian church? I know not what rea-
son to assign for this, except it be their different ca-
pacities and faculties.
And indeed, upon this account, we have perceiv-
ed in all Christian countries what mortal feuds have
been about religion: What wars and bloodshed have
molested Europe, till the general pacification of the
German troubles at the treaty of Westphalia; and
since those times, what persecution in the same coun-
try among the churches of the Lutherans: And should
I take a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions
are between Christians in. this kingdom, about epis-
copacy and presbytery, the church of England men
and the dissenters ; opposing one another like St. Paul
and St. Peter, even to the face; that is, they carry
on the dispute to the utmost extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such diffe-
rences in religious points, and why these breaches
should be more hot and irreconcilable? All the an-
swer I can give to this, is,'that we inquire more coiTi-
ccrning the truth of religion than any other nation
in the world; and the anxious concern we ha-ve a-
bout if, makes us jealous of every opinion, and tena-
cious of our own: And this is not because we are
more furious and rash than other people; but the
truth is, we are more concerned about them, and
being sensible that the scripture is the great rule of
faith, the standard for life and doctrine, we have re-
course to it ourselves, without submitting to any pre-
tended infallible judge upon earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the for-
mer, and that is, what remedy can we apply to this
malady? And to this I must negatively answer, Not
to be less religious, that we may disfer the less. This
is striking at the very roots of all religious diiferences $
for certainly, were they to be carried on with a peace-
able spirit, willing to be informed, our variety of o-
pinions would not have the name of differences; not
..-should we separate in communion of charity, though.
Ver did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less useful question to start, namely,
wher.e will our unhappy religious differences end? To
which, I hope, I may answer, in Heaven; there all
unchristian and unbrotherly differences will find a
period; there we shall embrace many a sinner, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with; and
perceive, many a heart we have broken here with
censures, reproaching, and revilings, made whole a-
. gain by the balm of the fame Redeemer's blood Here
we shall perceive there have been other flocks than
those of ouv fold ; that those we have excommunicat-
ed, have been taken, into that superior communion:
And, in a word, that those contradicting notions and
principles, which we thought inconsistent with true
religion, we shall then sind reconcilable to themselves,
to one another, and to the fountain of truth. If any
.man ask me, why our disferences cannot be ended,
upon earth? I answer, were we all thoroughly con-
vinced that then they would be reconciled, we would
put an end to them before; but this is impossible to
be done: For as mens certain convictions of truth
are not equal to one another, or to the,weight or
signisicancy of such veracity; so neither can a gene-
ral effect of this affair be expected on this side.of the
grave.
. Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to discourse a little of the wonderful excellency os'
. negative religion and negative virtue. The latter sets
out like the Pharisee, with, God, I thank thee; it
04
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope;
and, in a word, it is positive vice; for it is either
a mask to deceive others, or a mist to-deceive our-
selves. A man that is clothed with negatives thus
argues: I am not such a drunkard as my landlord,
such a thief as my tenant, such a swearer as his
neighbour; neither am I a cheat, an atheist, a ra-
kish fellow, or a highwayman: No; I live a sober,
regular, retired life : I am a good man, I go to church;
God, I thank thee. Now, though a man boasts of
his virtue in contradiction to the vices mentioned,
yet a person had better have them altogether than
the man himself; for he is so full of himself, so per-
suaded that he is good and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, except it be to
pull off his hat to God Almighty now and then, and
thank him that he has no occasion for him; and has
the vanity to think that his neighbours must imagine
well of him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is
yet intoxicated with the pride of his own worth; a
good neighbour and peace-maker in other families,
but a tyrant in his own; appears in church for a
show, but never falls upon his knees in his clo/et;
does all his alms before men, to be seen of them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
less of the first; appears religious, to be taken no-
tice of by men, but without intercourse or commu-
nication between God and his own souL Pray what
is the man? or what comfort is there of the life he
lives? He is insensible of faith, repentance, and a
Christian mortified life; in a word, he is perfectly
a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has he
of his mispent hours, and of the progress of time to
the great centre and gulf of life,, eternity? Does he
know to put a right value on time, or esteem the
life-blood os his soul as it really is, and act in all
the moments of it as one that must account for
them? If then you can form an equality between
'what he can do and what he shall receive, less can
it be founded upon his negative virtue, or what he
has forborne to do; and if neither his negative nor
positive piety can be equal to the reward, and to the
eternity that reward is to last for, what then is to
become of the Pharisee, when he is to be judged by
sincerity of his repentance, and rewarded, according
to the infinite grace of God, with a state of blessed-
ness to an endless eternity?
When the negative man converses with the invi-
sible world, he is, filled with-as much dread a-nd hor-
ror as Felix, when St. Paul reasoned to him of tem-
perance, righteousness, and of. judgment to come;
for Felix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man; and he was
made sensible by the Apostle, that as a life of virtue
and temperance was its own reward, by giving a
healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life, so
eternal happiness must proceed from another spring,
namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked
God, who having erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus
Christ would separate such as by faith and repent-
ance he had brought home and united to himself by
the grace of adoption, and on the foot of his having
laid down his life as a ransom for them, had ap-
pointed them to salvation, when all the philosophy,
temperance, and righteousness in the world besides
had been ineffectual. And this, I fay, it was that
made Felix, this negative man, tremble.
Chap. VI. Of listening to the voice of Providence.
The magnificent and wife King Solomon bids us
cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for under-
standing; by which is meant religious knowledge 5
Jfor it follows, Then shalt thou understand the fear ef
ROBrysotf CRuSofi.
the Zord, arid find the knowledge-as God. By which
undoubtedly he meant, to inquire after everything
that he has permitted us to knew, and nod to search
into-those ways'that are unsearchable, and^are esfec-
tually locked up from our knowledge. Now, a; listen-
ing to the voice of Providence is my present subject, I
intend, in the first place, to write to those who own,
i. That there is a God, a first great moving cause
of all things, an eternal power, prior, and conse-
quently superior to all created power or being. %.
That this eternal power, which is God, is the so-
vereign creator and governor of heaven and earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what' persons
in the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the
governing powerj' I osfer that glorious' text,, Psal.
xxxiii. 6, where the whole Trinity is entitled to the
whole creating work; and therefore, in.the next
;place, I shall lay down these two propositions:: : .;
I. That, the eternal God guides tyy his providence the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
, I . That this providence manifests a particular care
.1. . I overy and concern in the governing and directing
. i i man, the most noble creature upon earths . .
It is plain, that natural relSgibn proves the first,
by intimating the necessity of a Providence guiding
and governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom,^ justice, prescience, and goodness of the
Almighty Creator For otherwise it would be ab-
surd to think, that God mould create a world, with-
out any care or providence over it, in guiding the
operations of nature, so as to preserve the order of
his creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care
and concern of hi& Providence, by the climate's
being made habitable, :the creatures .subjected and
made nourissiing, and all vegetativcJife medicinal;
and all this for the fake of man, who is made vice-
roy to the King of the earth. The short description
I shall give of Providence is this : That it is that ope-
ration of the power, of the wisdom, justice, and
goodness of God, by which he influences, governs,
and directs, not only the. means, but the events of
all things which concern us in this sublunary world;
the sovereignty of which we ought always to reve-
rence, obey its motions, observe its dictates, and lis-
ten to its voice. The prudent man forefeeth the
evil, and hideth himself; that is, as I take it, there
is a secret Providence intimates to us that some dan-
ger threatens, if we strive not to shun it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out
Hull against the royal martyr King Charles I. thp
fame day Sir John Hotham was put to death by the
parliament for that very action; the fame day that
the king himself signed the warrant for the execu-
tion of the Earl os Stasford, the same day os the
month was he barbarously murdered by the bloods
thirsty Oliverian crew; and the same day that King
James II. came to the crown against the bill of
exclusion, the same day he was voted abdicated by
the parliament, and the throne filled ,with King
William and Queen Mary.
The voice of ignal deliverance from sudden dan-
gers is not only a juit call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling into the like danger; but such
who are uiterJy careless of themselves after, show a
lethargy of the worst nature, which seems to me to
be a kind of practical atheism, or at least a living in
a contempt of Heaven, when he receives good at the
hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned from whence
it comes, or to thank the bountiful hand that gave
it; neither when he receives evil, does it alter his
manner of life, or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general be-
ing prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
them to cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives;
the first having thrown two sixes, the second fell a
wringing his hands, having so poor a chance to
escape; however, having thrown, he was surprised
when he also threw other two sixes. The ossicer ap-
pointed to fee the execution ordered them to throw
again; they did so, and each of them threw two
fives: At which the soldiers that stood round, shouted
and said neither of them was to die. Upon this the
ossicer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
them to throw a third time, when they threw . two
fours; the general being made acquainted with it,
sent for the men, and pardoned them: I love, says
he, in such extraordinary cases,' to listen to the voice
of Providence-
We read in the holy writings, how God speafca , -
to men, by appearance of angelj, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham,
Lot, and Jacob; so angels have appeared to many
in other cafes, as to Manoah and his wife, Zacha-
riah, the Virgin Mary, and to the Apostles; others;
have been warned in a dream, as king Abiinelech,
the false prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble inquiry, what
we shall be after this life? for there is scarce a doubt,
that there is a place reserved for the reception of our
souls after death: For if we are to be, we must, have
a where, which the scriptures assert by the examples .
of Dives and Lazarus. The doctrine of spirits was
long believed before our Saviour's time; for when .
the disciples of the blessed Jesus perceived our Savi-
our waiking on the sea, they were much surprised,
as though they had seen a spirit. ' Nay, in those ages
of the world, it was believed that spirits intermeddled
in the affairs of mankind; and throughout the Old
Testament I do not find any thing that in the least
contradicts it. AU the pains and labour that some
learned men have taken, to confute the story of the
witch of Endor, and the appearance of an old man
-personating Samuel, cannot make such apparitions
inconsistent with nature or religion: And it is plain
that it was either a good or a bad spirit that prophe-
tically told the unfortunate king what should hap-
pen the next day; for, said the spirit* The Lord will
deliver thee into the hand of the Philiftines; and to-
morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me.
Abundance of strange notions possessed me when
I was in the desolate island, especially on a moon-
st;ine night, when every bush seemed a man, and
every tree a man on horseback. When I crept in-
to the dismal cave, where the old goat lay expiring,
whose articulate groans even resembled those of a
man, how was 1 surprised! my blood chilled in my
veins, a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead, my
hair stood upright, and'my joints, like Belshazzar's
knees, struck against one another: And indeed,
though I afterwards found what it was, the remains
of this surprise did not wear off for a great while;
and I had frequent returns of those v-apours on dif-
ferent occasions, and sometimes without any occa-
sion at all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just lain down in my bed, one of
my feet pained me; after that came a numbness,
succeeded with a tinkling in my blood; when on a
sudden I thought something alive lay upon me, from
my knee to above half my leg. Upon this I flung
myself out of the bed where I thought the creature
lay; but finding nothing, Lord deliver me from an
evilspirit! (said I) what can this be? When I light-
ed a candle, I could perceive no living creature in
the place with me but the poor parrot, who being
frightened, cried out, Hold your tongue! and, What's
the matter with you? which words I taught him, by
saying so to him, when he mad« such' screaming
noises as I did not like. Lord', (said I aloud) surely
the devil has been here. Hold your tongue (says Poll.)
I was then mad at the bird, and putting on my'
clothes, cried, I am terribly frightened: What's the-
matter witk you? (fays Poll.) You toad, (said I) I'll
knock your brains out. Hold your tongue, (cried he
again) and so fell a-chattering, and calling Robinson
Crusoe, as he did before. But after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to
see it was a distemper that affected my nerves, and
so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received we do
not know; nor are we sensible how they are con-
veyed from spirits unembodied to ours that are in
life, or on the contrary from us to them: The latter
certainly is done without the help of the organs, and
the former is conveyed by the understanding and the
retired faculties of the foul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse;
and the more particular discoveries of the converse
of spirits seem to me as follow, to wit, dreams,
voices, noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, invo-
luntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Joseph was directed of
God in a dream to go into Egypt; and so were the
wife men warned in a dream to depart into their own
country another way, to avoid the fury of Herod.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman
and a clergyman upon the subject of dreams. The
first thought no regard should be given unto them;
that their communication from the invisible to the
visible world was a mere chimera, without any solid
foundation; for, l, (said he) If dreams were from
the agency of any prescient being, the motives would
be more direct, and the discoveries more plain, and
not by allegories and emblematic fancies, expressing
things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the no-
tice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid it,
3*7
it is-tiot likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely
fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy of such notices,
in cafes equally important, proves they did not pro-
ceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most dis-
tinct dream* had nothing in them-of any significancy,
it would be irrational and vain to think that they
came from heaven. And,.5. That as men were not
always thus warned or supplied with notice of good
or evil, so all men are not alike supplied with them;
and what reason could we give, why one man or one
woman should npt have the same hints as another.
; To all this, the clergyman gave answer; 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against them as .being dark' and doubtful, they are
expressed generally by hieroglyphical representations,
similies, allusions, and figurative emblematic ways,
by which means, for want of interpretation, the
tiiing was not understood, and consequently the evil
not shunned. 2. That we charge God foo'tshly, to
say, that he has given the notice of evil, without the
power to avoid it; for if any one had not power to
avoid the evil, it was no notice to him; and it was
want of giving due head to that notice, that first men
neglected themselves, arid then charged the Judge of
all the eaith with injustice. 3. That we ought not
to find fault with the inconstancy of these notices,
but rather with our weak understandings, by pretend-
ing dreams were not to be .regarded, and negligent
when the voice- reaiiy spoke to us for our good. It
is a mistake to sey dreams have no import at all:
We might with more reason have said, none that we
could perceive the reason os,% owing to our blindness
and supine negligence, too secure at one time, and too
much alarmed at another; so that the spirit, which
we might be said to be conversing with in a dream,
was constantly and equally kind and careful; but our
powers are not always in the fame state of action,
not equally attentive to, or retentive of the hints
that were given. And, 5. To answer the lad que-
stion, why people are not'equally supplied? This
seemed to be no question; for Providence itself might
have some share in the direction' of it, and then that
providence might be limited by a superior direction:
That as to the converse of spirits, he could not call
it a stated converse ; such a thing there was, but why
there was so much of it, and no more, was none of
his business, and that no such discovery had ever
yet been made to mankind- Nor were we to ima-
gine less of waking dreams, trances, visions, noises,
hints, impulses, and all the waking testimonies of
an invisible world, and of the communication that
there is between us and them, which commonly en-
tertain us with our eyes open.
A gentleman of my acquaintance being about fe-'
ven railes distant from London, a friend that cam;
to dine with him, solicited him to go to the city.
What, (said the gentleman) is there any occasion-Jor
me? No, Sir, (said the other) nothing at al!, except
the enjoyment of your good company; and so gave
over importuning him. Just then a strong impulse
of mind urged the gentleman, and pursued him like
a voice, with- Go to London, Go to London. Hark
ye, (says he to his friend) is all well at London? Am
I wanted there? Or did you ask me to go with you
on any particular account? Are all my family well?
Yes, indeed, Sir, (said he) I perceived them all very
hearty; and I did not ask you to go to London up-
on any particular account whatsoever, except it was
for the fake of your good company. Again he put
off his resolution: But still the impulse suggested to
him, Go to London, and at length he did so. When
he came there, he found a letter and messenger had
been there to seek him, and to tell him of a parti-
cular business, which was first and last above a thou-
sand pounds to him, and which might inevitably
been lost had he not gone to London that night.
Hie obeying of several hints or secret impulses
argues great wisdom. I know a man that was un-
der misfortunes,, being guilty of misdemeanors a-
gainst the government; when, absconding for fear
ef his Tuiti, all his friends advising him not to put
himself in the hands of the law, one morning as he
awaked, he felt a strong impulse darting into his
mind thus, Write a letter to them: And this was re-
peated several times to his mind, and at last he an-
swered to it, as if it had been a voice, Whcmsfjall 1
write to? Immediately it replied, Write to the judge;
and this impulse pursued him for several days, till at
length he took pen, and ink, and paper, and fat
down to write to him ; when immediately words
flowed, from his pen, like streams from a fair foun-
tain, that charmed even himself with hopes of suc-
cess. In short, the letter was so strenuous in argu-
ment, so pathetic in its eloquence, and so persuasive-
ly moving, that when the judge had read it, he sent
him an answer he might- be easy, he would endea-
vour to make that matter light to him; and indeed
never left exerting himself, till he -had stopt the
prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and fa-
mily.
I know a person who had so strong an impression
upon her mind that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not sleep; the
impulse she had upon her mind pressed her not to go
to bed, which, however, she got over, and went to
bed; but was so terrified with the thought, which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt, that
she could not go to sleep; but communicating her
apprehensions to another in the family, they were
both in such a fright, that they applied themselves
to search from the top of the house to the bottom,
and to see every fire and candle safe out, so that, as
they all said, it was impossible that any thing could
happen then, and they sent to the neighbours on
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
both sides to do the like. Thus far they did well:
But had she obeyed the hint which pressed upon her
strangely, not to go to bed, she had done much bet-
ter; for the fire was actually kindled at that very
lime, though not broken out. About an hour after
the whole family was in bed, the house just over the
way, directly opposite, was all in slames,, and the
wind, which was very high, blowing the flame upon
the house this gentlewoman lived in, so silled it with
smoke and fire, in a few minutes, the street being
narrow, that they had not air to breathe, or time
to do any thing but jump out of their beds, and fave
their lives. Had fl;e obeyed the hint given, and not
gone to bed she might have saved several things ; but
, the few moments she had spared to her, were but just
sussicient to leap out of bed, put some clothes on, and
get down stairs, fer the house was on fire in half a
quarter of an hour.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (as to time
I cannot be very positive) there was a young clergy-
man in the city of Dublin in Ireland, who dreamed
a very uncommon dream, That a gentleman had
killed his wife, a relation of his, by stabbing her in se-
veral places ; the fright of this awaked him, but find-
ing it a dream, he composed himself again to sleep,
when he dreamed a second time the same dream. .
This made him a little uneasy; but thinking it pro-
ceeded from the impression made on his mind by
the former, he went to ileep again and dreamed the
fame dream a third time also. So troubled was he
at this, that he arose, and knocked at his mother's
chamber, told his concern, and his apprehensions
that all was not right at his relation's house. Dear
son, says the good old gentlewoman, do not mind
these foolish dreams : And I very much wonder, that
you, being a person in holy orders, should have re-
gard to such illusions. Upon this he went to bed
again, fell sleep, and dreamed a fourth time asJbefore,
331
And then indeed he put on his night-gown, and went
to Smithsield, the place where his relation dwelt.
Here it was, alas! he perceived his dream too sadly
fulfilled, by seeing his relation, the young lady, big
with child, who was a Protestant, stabbed in seven
places, by her barbarous husband Mr. Eustace, a vio-
lent Papist, only for some discourses of religion that
happened the day before. After the wretch had
stabbed her in three places, he went to make his e-
cape out at a window ; but she cried out, My dear!
don't leave me, come back, and I Jhall be well again.
At which he returned in a hellish rage,- and gave
her four wounds more, when even in this condition
rising from her bed, she wrapped herself in her night-
gown, and went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's cham-
ber-door, (the Bishop lodging at that time in the
house). My Lord, (said she) O my Lord, make haste
unto me; but as soon as his Lordship came, she ex-
pired in his arms, resigning her precious soul into
the hands of Almighty God. The cruel wretch her
husband was shot by the pursuers; too good a death
for one who deserved the gibbet; and the lady was
universally lamented by all tender and religious peo-
ple. And this tragical relation I have mentioned
upon the account of that impulse or dream that the
clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody action.
It might be expected I should enter upon the
subject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the
reality of them, and whether they can reyisit tfye
place of their former existence, and resume those
faculties of speech and shape as they had when living;
but, as these are very doubtful matters,,I.shall only
make a few observations upon them.'
I once heard of a man that would allow the reali-
ty of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, think-
ing that the souls of men departed, or good men,
did never appear. To this Very man something did
appear: He said, he saw the shape of an ancient
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
man pass by him in the dusk, who, holding up his
hand in a threatening posture, cried out, 0 wicked
man, repent, repent. Terrified with this apparition,
he consulted several friends, who advised him to take
the advice. But after all, it was not an, apparition, but
a grave and pious gentleman, who met him by mere
accident, and had been sensible of his wickedness;
and wh» never undeceived him, lest it should hinder
his reformation.
\£!oriSe people make a vefy ill use of the general no-
tion, that there are no apparitions nor spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they see them
upon every occasion; for those carry their notions
farther, even to annihilate the devil, and believe no-
thing about him, neither of one kind or other: The-
next step they come to is, to conclude There is n»
God, and so atheism takes its rife in the fame fink
with a carelessness about futurity. But there is no
occasion to enter upon an argument to prove the be-
ing of the Almighty, or to illustrate his power by
words, who has so many undeniable testimonies in the
breasts of every rational being to prove his existence;
and we have susficient proofs, enough to convince
us of the great superintendency of divine Providence
in the minutest asfairs of this world; the manifest
existence of the invisible world; the reality of spi-
rits, and intelligence between us and them. What
I have said, I hope, will not mislead any person, cr
be a. means whereby they may delude themselves;
for having spoken of these things with the utmost
seriousness of mind, arid with a sincere and ardent
desire for the general good and benefit of the world.
THE END.
Brifitedby Mwndeil&Son,?
Royal Bank Close, Edin. $
IFE

USOE,
OF TORK, MARINER,
WHO LIVED TWENTY-EIGHT#YEARS1N AN UNINHABITED ISLAND
ON THE CQJWT Or AMERICA, NEAR TUE MOUTH Or
'tuæ/great RIVER OROq

BY DANIEL DE FOE,
JUTBOR OF RELIGIOUS eOVRTSHIP AND FARIOVS OTHER JTORKS.
EDINBURGH:
FRJNTED BY AND FOX MCNDELI. AND «ON;
1803.
IF ever the story of any private man's adven-
tures in the world were worth making pub-
lic, and were acceptable when published, the
Editor of this account thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all
that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the
life olonemanbeingfcarce capable ofagreaU
er variety.
The story is told with modesty, with se-
riousness, and with a religious application of
events to the uses to which wife men always
apply them, viz. to the instruction of others
by this example, and tojustify and honour the
wisdom of Providence in all the variety of our
circumstances, let them happen how they will.
The Editor believes the thing to be a just
history of fact; neither is there any appear-
ance of fiction in it: And though he is well
aware there are many, who on account of the
very singular preservations the author met
with, will give it the name of a romance;
yet, in whichever of these lights it shall be
viewed he imagines, that the improvement
. of it, as well to the diversion as to the in-
struction of the reader, will be the fame; and,
as such, he thinks, without farther compli-
ment to the world, he does them a great ser-
vice in the publication.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
o b
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IN the year 1632 I was born at York, of a reput-
able family. My father was a native of Bre-
men, who, merchandising at Hull for some time,
gained a very plentiful fortune, and married my mo-
ther in York, who received her first breath in that
country; and as her maiden name was Robinson, I
was called Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being
easily pronounced in the English tongue, we are
commonly known by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers; the eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but
slain by the Spaniards; what became of the other I
could never learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion, my father designing me for the law yet no-
K0BINS0N CRU-OE.
thing would serve me but I must go to sea, both
.against the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
and the entreaties of my friends. One morning my
father expostulated very warmly with me: Says he,
What reason have you to leave your native country,
where there must be a more certain prospect os con-
tent and happiness, than to' enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, neither to desire adversity
nor riches; that a middle state of life was the most
happy; and that the high towering thoughts of rais-
ing our condition by wandering abroad, were sur-
rounded with misery and danger, and often ended
with confusion and disappointment: I entreat you,
nay*I command you, says he, to desist from these in-
tentions; consider your eldest brother who laid down
his life for his honour, or rather lost it for his dis-
obedience to my will. If you will go, added he, my
prayers however shall be offered for your preserva-
tion ; but a time may come, when, desolate, oppressed,
©r forsaken, you may wiih you had taken your poor dc-
spised father's counsel.—He pronounced these words
with such a moving and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that seem-
ed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this wore off soon, and a little after I informed
my mother that I could not settle to any business,
my resolutions were so strong to fee the world, and
begged she would gain my father's consent only to
go one voyage, which if it did not prove prosperous
I would never attempt a second; but my desire
was as vain as my folly in asking: My mother pas-
sionately expressed her dislike of this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw I was bent upon my oiun de-
slruBion, contrary to their''will and my duty, she would
Jay no more, but leave me to myself, to do whatsoever I
pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
3
one time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of
mine, going along with his father, who was master
of a ship, to London; and acquainting him with my
wandering desires, he assured me of my free passage,
and a plentiful share of what was necessary. Thus,
without imploring a blessing, or taking a farewell of
my parents, I took shipping on the first of September
1651; when our ship having no sooner left the
Humber a-stern, but there arose such a violent storm,
and being extremely sea-sick, I thought the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my dis-
obedience to my dear parents. It was then only
1 called to mind the good advice of my father,
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of life;
and if it pleased God to set me on dry land once
more, I would return to tny parents, implore their
forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wandering
inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm conti-
nued; but these good resolutions decreased with the
danger; more especially when my companion came
to me, clapping me on the shoulder: What, Bob!
said he, sure you was not frightened last night with
scarce a cap-full of wind? And do you, cried I,
.iall such a violent ftsrm a cap-full of wind? A
slorin, you fool you, said he, this is nothing; a good
ship and sea-room always baffle such a foolish squall
of wind as that; but you.'re a fresh-water sailor:
1 Come, boy, turn out, see what sue weather we have
.fiow, and a good bowl of punch will drown all your
past f rrows. In short, the punch was made, I was
drunk, aud in one night's time drowned both my
repentance and my good resolutions, entirely for-
getting the vows and promises I made in my distress;
and whenever any reflections would return on me,
what by company and drinking, I soon mastered
those sits, as I deridingly called them; but this only
made way for another trial, whereby I could not
but see how much I was beholden to kind pro-,
vidence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with some
Newcastle ships, and there being good anchorage,
and our cables sound, the seamen forgot their late
toil and danger, and spent their time as merry as if
they had been on shore ; but on t!ie eighth day there
arose such a brisk gale of wind, which prevented
our tiding it up the river, and liill increasing, our
ship rid forecastle in, having shipped several large
seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, when I heard the master express this me-
lancholy ejaculation, Lord have mercy upon us, ice
flail be all lost and undone! For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin till the universal and most
dreadful apprehensions among us of our speedy fate
made me get up upon deck,and there I was dreadfully
asfrighted indeed; the sea went mountains high; I
could fee nothing but distress around us; two siiips
had cut their masts on board, and another was foun-
dered; two more that had lost their anchors were
forced out to the mercy of the ocean; and to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast and
mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as riot to judge of my
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh-water sailor,
and therefore it seemed more terrible. Our ship was
very good, but too much loaden, which made the
sailors often cry out, She would founder; words I
then was ignorant of! /.II this while the storm con-
tinuing, the master and the more sober pnrt of his
men went to prayers, expecting death every mo-
ment. In the middle of the night one cried out, We
had sprung a leak; another, That there was four Jeet
water in the hold. I was just ready to expire with
5
seas, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me also in- that extremi-
ty to share with them in their labour. While thus
employed, the master espying some light colliers,
fired a gun as a signal of distress, which I not un-
derstanding what it meant, and thinking that either
the ship broke or some dreadful thing happened, sell
into a swoon ; but in that common condition of woe,
nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was a great
while before I recovered.
Happy it was foT us, when upon the signal given,
ihey ventured out their boats to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had their
attempts been, had they not come to our ship's side,
when our men cast them a rope over a-stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold
of, and we hawling them to us, got into their boat.
So leaving our ship, we perceived it sink in less than,
a quarter of an hour, by which I knew what wa»
foundering at sea- And now the men incessantly la-
boured to recover their own ship, but the sea ran so
high, and the wind blowing hard, they thought it
convenient to hawl within shore, which with great
dissiculty and danger at last we happily effected,
landing at a place called Gromer, not far from
Winterton light-house; from whence we all walked
to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people furnished us with necessaries for our subsist-
ence either to Hull or London.
It is strange, that after all this, like the prodigal
son, I did not return to my father; who hearing of
the ship's calamity, for a long time thought me en-
tombed in the deep. No doubt but I should have
Jhared in his fatted calf, as the scripture expresseth it;
but my ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful conviction os reason and conscience.
A3
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
When I had been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His behaviour
and speech was altered, and in a melancholy manner
asked me how I did, telling his father who I was,
and how I had made this voyage for a trial only to
proceed farther abroad ; upon which the old gentle-
man, turning to me gravely, said, Toung man, you
ought never to go to sea any mere, but to take this fir a
certain sign that you will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the fame
resolution? 'Tis a different cafe, said he, 'tis my
calling, and consequently my duty,, but as you have
made this voyage for a trial, you fee what ill success
heaven as set before your eyes; and perhaps our miseries
have been on your account, like Jonah in theship of far-
fiish : But pray what are you, and on what account did
you go to sea? Upon which I very freely declared
my whole story, at the end of which he made this
exclamation, Ye sacred powers! what had I com-
mitted, that such a wretch should enter into my
ship, to heap upon me such a deluge of miseries!
But soon recollecting his passions, Toung man, faid
he, depend upon it, if you do net go back, wherever you
go, you will meet with difaslers and disappointments, till
your father's words are fulfilled upon you. And so we
parted.
I thought at first to return home, but shame op-
posed that good motion, as thinking I should be
laughed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So
strange is the nature of youth, who are not ashamed
to sin, but yet ashamed to repentand far from be-
ing ashamed of those actions for which they may be
accounted fools, think it folly in returning to their
duty, v hich is the principal mark of wisdom. In
short, I travelled up to London, resolved upon a voy-
age; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaint-
ance with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go
7
to the coast of Guinea. Having some money, and
appearing like a gentleman, I went on board, not
as a common sailor or foremast-man; nay, the com-
mander agreed I should go that voyage with him
without any expence, that I should be his messmate
and companion, and I was very welcome to carry
any thing witrl me, and make the best merchandise
I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my captain for his offer; when acquainting my
friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent me, the
greatest part of which I believe my dear father and
mother contributed to, and with which I bought
toys and trisles as the captain directed me. My
captain also learned me navigation, how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation,
and led me into the knowledge of several useful
branches of the mathematics; and indeed this voy-
age made me both a sailor and merchant; for I
brought home 5 pounds 9 ounces of gold-dust for
my adventure, which produced at my return to Lon-
don almost three hundred pounds. But in this voy-
age I was extremely sick, being thrown into a vio-
lent calenture, through excessive heat, trading upon
the coast from the latitude of 15 degrees north even
to the line itself.
But alas! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief
to me, yet I resolved to go another voyage wish his
mate, who had now got command of the ship;
but this proved unsuccessful; for though I did not
carry quire iool. of my late acquired wealth, so that
I had 200I. left, which I deposited with the captain's
widow, who was an honest gentlewoman, yet my
misfortunes in this voyage were very great upon me,
for our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands, we
were chaced by a Sallee rover, and in spite of all the
sail we could make, by crowding as much can-
A4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
vas as our yards would spread, or masts carry, the
pirate gained upon us, and so we prepared ourselves
to fight. They had 18 guns, and we had but 12,
About three in the afternoon there was a desperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wound-
ed on both sides; but finding ourselves overpowered
with numbers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too
impotent to have the least hopes of success, we were
forced to surrender, and accordingly were all carried
into the port os Sallee. Our men were sent to the
emperor's court to be fold there; but the pirate
captain taking notice of me, kept me to be his own
slave.
In this condition I thought myself the most miser-
able creature on earth, and the prophecy of my fa-
ther came afiesh into my thoughts. As it happened,
my condition was better than I thought it to be, as
will soon appear. Some hopes indeed 1 had, that
my new patron would go to sea again, where he might
be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war, and,
then I should be set at liberty; but in this I was mis-
taken, for he never took me with him, but left me
to look after his little garden, and to the drudgery
of his house; and when he returned from sea, would
make me iie in the cabin, and look after the ship.
I had nor one that I could communicate my thoughts
to, which were continually meditating my escape;
no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman here,but my-
self, and for two years I could fee nothing practi-
cable, but only please myself with the imagination.
After some length os time, my patron, as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out his
ship as usual; and then he used constantly, once
or twice a week, if the weather was fair, to go out
a fishing, taking me and a yo-.ing Moresco boy to row
the boat; aijd so much piealcd was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the sish, that he wjuld
9
often send me with a Moor, who was one of hi*
kinsmen, and the Moresco youth, to catch a dish o*
sish for him.
One morning as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the- shore,
and rowing we knew not which way, we laboured
all the night, and in the morning found ourselves in
the ocean, two leagues from land; however, we at-
tained there at length, and we made the greater
haste, because our stomachs were exceeding sharp
andhungry. But the better to prevent such-difasters,
my patron ordered a carpenter to build, a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with,
a place behind it to steer and hawl home the main-
sheet, with other conveniencies, to keep him from
the weather, as also lockers to put in all manner of
• provisions, with a handsome shoulder of mutton sail
gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us a-fishing; and one
time inviting two or three persons of distinction to
go with hinifc made provision extraordinary, provid-
ing also three fusees, with powder and shot, that
they might have some sport at fowling along the sea
coast. The next morning, the boat being clean,
her antients and pendents out, and every thing
ready, their minds altering, my patron ordered us
to go a-fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor to get
some provisions on board, as not daring to meddle
with our patron's; who, taking my advice, we
stored ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of
water; besides, I privately conveyed into the boat
a bottle of brandy, some twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a saw; in particular some bees-
wax, which was a great comfort to me, and served
to make candles, I then persuaded Muley (for so
as
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
was the Moor called) to procure some powder and
shot, pretending to kill sea curlieus, to which he
innocently and readily agreed; and in short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out,
resolving for my own part to make my escape, though
it might cost me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to fishing -t
but though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put farther out to sea; accord-
ingly we ran a league farther, when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muley by surprise, and threw him overboard.
He was an excellent swimmer, soon arose, and made
towards the boat; upon which I took out a fusee,
and presented it at him: Muley, said I, I never yet
designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
to shore and save your life; but is you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment
you proceed, I will shoot you through the head. The
harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got fafe to land.
Then turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he
trembled at the action; but I put him out of all fear,
telling him, that is he would be true and faithful
to-me, I would do well by him; and therefore, said
I, you miifl stroke your face to be faithful, and, as the
Turks have learnt you, swear by Mahomet, and the
beard of your father, or else I will throw you into the sea
also. So innocent did the child then look, and with
such an obliging smile consented, that I readily be-
lieved him, and from that day forward began to
k>ve him entirely*
Thus we pursued our voyage, and that they should
think me gone to the Straits mouth, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but in the
dulk of the evening I changed my course, and
steered directly S. by E. that I might keep new
J I
the shore; and having a fresh gale of wind, with a
pleasant smooth sea, by three o'clock the next day
I was 150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. Yet still having the dreadful apprehen-
sions of being retaken, I continued sailing for five
days successiviely, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude, that is any
vessel was in chace of me, they would proceed no
farther; and after so much fatigue and thought, I
anchored in the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what or where, neither did I then see any people.
What I principally wanted was fresh water, and I
was resolved about dulkish to swim ashore; but
no sooner did the gloomy clouds of night begin to
succeed the declining day, when then it was we heard
such barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, that one might have thought the very stran-
gest monsters of nature, or infernal spirits, had their
residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night. Sup-
posing I don't, Xury, said I, and in the morning we
shouldsee men who are worse than those we fear, what
then? O den we may give dem de shoot gun, replied
Xury, laughing, and de gun make dem all run away.
The wit and broken English which the boy had
learned from the captives of our nation, pleased me
entirely, and to add to his cheerfulness, I gave him a
dram of the bottle. We could get but little sleep all
the night for the terrible howlings they made, and
indeed we were both affrighted very much, when,
by the rolling of the water, and other tokens, we
justly concluded one of those monsters made towards
our boat; I could not fee it till it came within two
oars length, when, taking my fusee, I let fly at
him: Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but
h e made towards the shore, and the noise of my gun
increased the stupendous noise of the monsters-
Ad
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my life among beads
or savages, should either attack me. Xury said he
would take one of the jars and bring me some; I
asked him why he would gr>, and not I; the poor
boy answered, If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
away. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so con-
trary to self-preservation, the most powerful law of
nature! This indeed increased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we nvill both go
oshore, both eat wild mans, and they shall eat neither
of us. So giving Xury a piece of rulk bread to eat,
and a dram, we waded ashore, carrying nothing with
us but our arms, and two jars for water. I did not
go out of sight of the boat, as dreading the savages
coming down the river in their canoes; but the boy
seeing a low descent, or vale, about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it, and then running back
to me with great precipitation, I thought he was
pursued by some savage or wild beast, upon which I
approached, resolving to perish or protect him from
danger. As he came nearer to me, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and
longer legs; however, we were glad of it, for it
proved wholesome nourishing meat; but what added
to our joy was, my boy assured me there was.plenty
of water, and that he fee no wild mans. And greater
.;<feftill was our comfort, when we found fresh water in'
t'ie creek where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place 1 began to consider that the Cana-
ry and the Cape de Verd islands lay not far off; but
having no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or
when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes
were, I should meet some of the English trading ves-
sels, who would relieve and take us up.
The place I was in, was, no doubt, that wild fort
of country, inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
negroes; it was filled with wild beasts, and the Moors
used it for hunting chiefly. From this place I thought
I saw the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in the Ca-
naries, which made me try twice to attain it; but as
often was I drove back, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along the shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high, and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go farther in; but
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were
sharper than mine, in a soft tone desired me to keep-
far from land, lest we should be devoured ; for, look
yonder, Meyter, said he, and see de dreadful monster
fast asieep on the side of the hill. Accordingly, looking
where he pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed;
it was a terrible great lion that lay on shore, covered,
as it were, by tKe shade of a piece of the hill. Xury,
said I, you shall go on shore and kill him; but the boy
looked amazed: Me kill him, fays he, he eat me at
me mouth, meaning one mouthful. Upon which I
bid him lie still, and charging my- biggest gun with
two Hugs, and a good charge of powder, I took the
best aim I could to shoot him through the head, but
his leg lying over his nose, the slug broke his knee-
bone. The lion awaking with the pain, got up, but
soon fell down, giving the most hideous groan I ever
heard ; but taking my second piece,I shot him through
the head, and then he lay struggling for life. Upon
this Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go on
shore. Go then, said I. Upon which, taking a little
gun in one hand, he swam to shore with the other,
and coming close to the lion, put a period to his life,
by shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a chara-
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet to cut off
the head of his enemy, which not having strength to
perform, cut osf a foot; but I bethought mvsclf that
his stein would be of great use, which cost Xury and
I a whole day's work; when spreading it on the top
of our cabin, the hot beams of the fun so effectually
dried it in two days time, that it afterwards served
me for a bed to lie upon.
And now we sailed southwardly, living sparingly
on our provisions, and went no oftoner on shore than
we were obliged, for fresh water. My design was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about
the C ipe de Verd, in hopes to meet some European
ship. If providence did not so favour, my next course
was to seek for the islands, or lose my life among
the negroes. And in a word, I put my whole stress
upon this, either that 1 must meet .with some shij>, or
certainly perish.
But, as we were sailing along, we faw people stand
on the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were black and stark naked. 1 was inclined to
go on shore, but Xury cried, No, no; however, I
approached nearer, and I found they run along the
shore by me a good way; they had ~no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long stick, which
Xury told me was a lance, with which they could
kill at a great distance. I talked to them by signs,
and made them sensible I wanted something to eat:
They beckoned to me to stop my boat, while two of
them run up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back and brought with them two pieces
of dry flesh, and some corn, which we kindly ac-
cepted ; and to prevent any fears of either side, they
brought the food to the shore, laid it down, then
went and stood a great way off, till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them, be-
ing all we could offer, two mighty creatures came-
5*
siom the mountains, one as it were pursuing the
other with great fury, which we were inclined to
believe, because they seldom appear but in the night;
and both these passing swiftly by the negroes, jumped
into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their
fierceness. At last, one of them coming nearer my
boat than I expected or desired, I shot him directly
through the head, upon which he sunk immediately,
yet rising again, Would have willingly made to the
shore; but between the wound and the strangling
of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is not possible for me to express the consterna-
tion the poor negroes were in at the firing my gun,
much less can I mention their surprise, when they
perceived the creature to be slain by it. I made signs
to them to draw near it, and then gave them a rope
to hale it on shore. It was a beautiful leopard,
which mada me desire its skin; and the negroes
seeming to covet the carcase, I very freely gave it to
them. As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of sight.
The negroes having kindly furnished me with water,,
and with what roots and grain their country afforded,
I took my leave, and after eleven days fail, I came
in sight of the Cape de Verd, and those islands call-
ed by its name ;, but the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds, would prevent my
reaching either of them, I grew melancholy and
dejected; when on a sudden, Xury cried out,
Master, Master, a shtp with a sail; and looked so
frightened, as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us; but I soon discovered she was a Por-
tuguese ship, and, as I thought, bound to the coast
of Guinea for negroes.- Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them; but vain had it been,
if through their perspective glasses they had not per-
ceived me, and shortened their sail to let me come up.
Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's antient,
and fired a gun, both as signals of distress, upon
which they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours
time I came up with them. They spoke to me in
Portuguese, Spanish, and French, but neither of these-
did I understand; till at length a Scots sailor called,
and then I told him I was an Englishman, who had
escaped from the Moors of Sallee; upon which they
took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express that inconceivable joy my
heart felt at this my happy deliverance; who, from
being a miserable and forlorn creature, was not only
relieved, but in favour with the master of the ship,
whom in return for my deliverance I offered all I had
to him: God forbid, said he, that I should take any-
thing from you ; every thing shall be delivered to you when
you come to Brasil. If I have saved your life, it is no'
more than 1 should expecl to receive myself from any
ether, when in the same circumstances, 1 should happen
to meet the like deliverance ,- and should I take from you
what you have, and leave you at Brnftl, why this
would only be taking away a life I have given; my cha-
rity teaches me better; those effiefls you have will support
you there, and provide you a passage home again. And
indeed he acted with the strictest justice in what he
did, taking my things in his possession, and giv-
ing me an exact inventory, even to my earthen jars.
He bought my boat of me for the ship's use, giving
me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Bra-
sil, and if any body osfered more, he would make it
up. He also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury.
It was with great reluctance I was prevailed upon to
fell the child's liberty, who had served me so faith-
fully; but the boy himself was willing; and it was
agreed, that after ten years he should be made free,
upon his renouncing Mahometanism and embracing
Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brasils, we ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or Æ-Sai/its Bay,
in about 22 days after. And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain; he would
take nothing for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for
the leopard's skin, and 30 for the lion's ; every thing
he caused to be delivered, and what I would sell he
bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of my
cargo, and with this stock I entered once more, as I
may fay, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and seeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filled with an emulation, at least, to set-
tle among them, resolving to get my money remit-
ted to me, and to purchase me a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon of English
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we im-
proved it very amicably together: Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for
food; but the third year we planted some tobacco,
preparing each a large piece of ground for planting
Canes the ensuing year; but now wanting assistance,
I repented the loss of my dear boy Xury.
Here having none to assist me, my father's words
came again into my mind; and if only a middle sta-
tion of life I sought, why could it not as well be
obtained in England as here? When I pondered of
this with regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance
forsook me; I had none to converse with but my
neighbour; no work to be done but by my own
hands; and this often made me fay, my condition
was like that of a man cast upon a desolate island.
So unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetful
what good things we receive ourselves, and io un-
thankful for our deliverance from thole calamities
that others enUure,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I was in some measure settled before the captain
who took me up departed from the Brasils. One day
I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in obtaining its remit-
tance, to which the good gentleman readily con-
sented, but would only have me send for half my
money, lest it should miscarry, which if it did, the
remainder might support me; and so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
farther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a
servant, with a cargo proportionable to my condi-
tion; he also sent me over tools of all forts, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for, my plantation, and
which proved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in
rising greater than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus, once more, I cast myself into the deepest
gulf of misery that ever abandoned creature fell
into; for having lived four years in Brasil, I not
only learned the language, but contracted acquaint-
ance with the most eminent planters, and even the
merchants of St. Salvadore, to whom, by way of
discourse, giving an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading there
for mere trifles, by which we might furnish our
plantations with negroes, they gave such attention
to what I said, that three of them came one morn-
ing to me, and told me they had a secret proposal to
make. After enjoining me to secresy (it being an
infringement on the powers of the kings of Portugal
and Spain), they told me they had a mind to fit out
a ship to go to Guinea, in order to stock the planta-
tion with negroes, which, as they could not be pub-
licly sold, they would divide among them, and if I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part, I should have an equal share of the ne-
groes, without providing any stock. The thing in-
deed was fair enough, had I been in another condi-
tion; but I, born to be my own destroyer, could not
resist the proposal, but accepted the offer, upon con-
dition of their looking after my plantation; so, mak-
ing a formal will, I bequeathed my esfects to my good
friend the captain, as my universal heir, but obliged
him to dispose of my effects as directed, one half of
my produce to himself, and the other to be shipped
for England.
The ship being fitted out, and all things ready,
we set sail the first of September 1659, being the
fame day eight years I left my father and mother in
Yorkshire. "We sailed northward upon the coast,
in order to gain Africa, till we made Cape Augustine,
from whence going further in the ocean, out of sight
of land, we steered as though we were bound for the
isle of Fernand de Noremba, leaving the islands on
the east; and then it was we met with a cruel tem-
pest, which held us for twelve days successively, so
that the waters carried us wheresoever they pleased.
In this perplexity one of our men died, and one man
and the boy were washed overboard. When the wea-
ther cleared up a little, we found ourselves eleven
degrees north latitude upon the coast of Guinea.
Upon this the captain gave reasons for returning,
.which I opposed, counselling him to stand away for
Barbadoes, which, as 1 supposed, might be attained
in j j diys; so altering our course, we sailed north-
welt and by welt, in order to reach the Leeward
islands; but a second storm succeeding, drove us to
the westward, so that we were justly afraid of falling
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the hands of cruel savages, or the paws of de-
vouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the
morning, cried out, Land! land! when no sooner
looking out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and in
a moment the sea broke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished imme-
diately. We knew nothing where we were, or upon
what land we were driven, whether an island or the
main, inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not
so much as hope that the ship would hold many mi-
nutes without breaking in pieces, except the wind
by miracle should turn about immediately. While
we stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate laid hold of the boat, and,
with the help of the rest, got her slung over the
ship's fide, and getting all into her, being eleven of
us, committed ourselves taN God's mercy, and the
wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort would
not be a sussicient protection from death; so high
did the sea run, that it was impossible the boat should
live. As to making sail, we had none, neither if
we had, could we make use of any; so that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rolling astern of us, and took us with such fu-
ry, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to
call upon the tremendous name of God, much less
to implore, in dying ejaculations, His infinite mercy,
to receive our departing fouls.
Men are generally counted insensible when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, 1 had the most dreadful appre-
hensions imaginable; for the joys of heaven, and
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even in the small space
of time, as it were, between life arsd death. I was
Agoing, I thought, I knew not whither, in a dismalJ
gulf unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to be-
hold my friends, nor the light of this world any
more! Could I even have thought of annihilation, or
a total dissolution of soul as well as body, the gloomy
thoughts of having no further being, no knowledge
of what we hoped for, but an eternal quietus, with-
out life or fense; even that, I say, would have been
enough to strike me with horror and confusion! But
striving to the last extremity, while I thought all my
companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep, it was with great dissiculty I kept my breath
till the wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had taken in;
however, I got on my feet as fast as I could, lest
another wave should pursue, and carry me back
again; but for all the haste I made, I could not
avoid it, for the sea came after me like a high
mountain, or furious enemy, so that my business was
to hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, preserve it by swimming; the next dreadful
wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep,
but at the same time carried me with a mighty force
and swiftness towards the lliore; when raising my-
self, I held out as well as possible, till at length the
water having spent itself, began to return, at which
I struck forward, and feeling ground with my feet, I
took to my heels again. Thus being served twice more,
I was at last dashed against a piece of rock, in such
a manner as left me senseless; but recovering a little
before the return of the waves, which, no doubt,
then would have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the
rock till those succeeding waves abated, and then,
fetching another run, was overtook by a small wave,
which was soon conquered; but before any more
could overtake me, I reached the main land, where
clambering up the clifts of the shore, tired and almost
spent, I sat down on the grass, free from the dangers
of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my foul felt at this happy deliverance; it was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor^ with the haltef
about his neck, and ready to be turned osf. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the Divine
'Powers for saving my life, when the rest of my com-
panions were all drowned. And now I began to cast
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what I had next to do. I could fee no house, nor
people; I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or drink; no
weapon to destroy any creature for my sustenance,
nor defend myself against devouring beasts; in short,
I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a box
half filled with tobacco. The darksome night com-
ing upon me, increased my fears of being devoured
by wild creatures; my mind was plunged in de-
spair, and having no prospect, as I thought, of life
before me, prepared for another kind of death than
what 1 had lately escaped,. I walked about a fur-
long, to see if could find any freih water, which I
did to my great joy, and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy tree, and
seating myself so that I could not fall, a deep sleep
overtook me, and for that night buried my sorrows
in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awak-
ed, when not only I perceived the tempest was
ceased, but the ihip was driven almost as far as the
rock before-mentioned, which the waves had dash-
ed me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat
two miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore^
as the waves had cast her; I thought to have got to
her, but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
2
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistence. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that, if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved:
These thoughts and my solitude, drew tears from
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the ship, I stripped, and leaped into the water, when
swimming round her, I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good for-
tune to espy a small piece of rope hang down by the
fore-chains so low, that with great dissiculty, by the
help of it, I got into the forecastle of the strip. Here
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold; her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost in the wa-
ter; all her quarter, and what was there, were free
and dry. The provisions I found in good order,
with which I crammed my pockets; and, losing no
time, eat when I was doing other things; I also
found some rum, of which I took a hearty dram;
and now I wanted for nothing except a boat, which
indeed was all, to carry away what was needful for
me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We
had several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and
two or three large spars of wood; with these I fell
to work, and flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side, and tied four of them fast to-
gether at botb ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any consi-
derable weight; upon which I went to work again,
cutting a spare topmast into three lengths, adding
them to my raft with a great deal of labour and
pains. I then considered what I should load it with,
it being not able to bear a ponderous burden ; and
this I soon thought of, first laying upon it all the
planks and boards I could get; next I lowered down
three of the feamens chests, after I had filled them
with bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goats flesh, and some European corn, what
little the rats had spared; but for the liquors, I
found several cases of bottles belonging to our skip-
per, in which were some cordial waters, and four
or five gallons of arrack, which I stowed by them-
selves; by this time the tide beginning to flow, I
perceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim away,
which I had left on the shore; as for my linen,
breeches, and stockings, I swam with them on to the
ship; but I soon found clothes enough, yet took
no more than I wanted for the present. My eyes
were chiefly on tools to work with; and after
long search I found out the carpenter's chest,
which I got safe down on my raft; then I looked
for arms and ammunition, and in the great cabin,
found two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, several
powder-horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two
rusty old swords. I also found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third had
taken water: With two or three broken oars, two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, I put to sea, and in
getting to shore, I had three encouragements; I. A
smooth calm sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in
to the shore. 3. The little wind there was blew to-
wards land; but after I had sailed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little distance from the place
where I first landed; and then I perceived a little
opening of the land, and a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept in the middle of
the stream; but great was my concern, when on a
sudden the fore part of my raft run aground ; so that
had I not with great dissiculty, for near half an hour,
1
kept my back straining against the chests, to keep
my esfects in their places, all I had would have gone
into the sea. But after some time, the rising or the
water caused the raft to float again, when coming up
a little river, with land on both sides, I landed in a
little cove, as near the mouth as possible, the better
to discover a sail, if any such providentially passed
by that way.
Not far off, I spied a hill of a stupendous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it, and thither I
.was resolved to go and view the country, that I
might see what part was the best place to fix my ha-
bitation in. Accordingly, arming myself with a
pistol, a fowling- piece, powder and ball, I ascended
the mountain; there I perceived I was in an island
encompassed by the sea, no distant lands to be
seen, but scattering rocks that lay to the west; that
it seemed a barren place, and, as I thought, inhabit-
ed only by wild beasts. I perceived abundance of
fowls, but was ignorant of what kind, or whether
good for nourishment; 1 ssiot one of them at my re-
turn, which occasioned a confused screaming among
the other birds; and I found it, by its colour and
beak, to be a kind of hawk, but its flesh was perfects
carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely; and
searing that some cruel beasts might devour me in
the night while I slept, I made a kind of hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I brought from
shore. That night I slept very comfortably, and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make
a further attempt on the ship, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm should
break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a sifcond raft, far more nice
than the first, upon which I brought away the car-
penter's stores, two or three bags full of nails, a
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
great jack screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and
a grind-stone. I also took away several things that
belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, two barrels of musket-bullets, another
fowling-piece, a small quantity of powder, and a
large bag full of small shot. Besides these, I took
all the mens clothes I could find, a spare fore-top
sail, hammock, and some bedding; and thus com-
pleting my second cargo, I made all the haste to
shore I could, fearing some wild beast might destroy
what I had there already; but I only found a little
'wild cat sitting on one of the chests, who not seem-
ing to fear me, or the gun that I presented to her, I
threw her a piece of biscuit, which she instantly ate,
and departed.
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I went
to-.work, in order to make me' a little tent with the
fail and some poles which I had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be damaged
by the weather I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards, and an
empty chest turned the long way without. I then
, charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed on the
ground, flept as comfortably, till next morning, as
though I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet, despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
sore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could, and so long as the ship remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some
twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a bar-
rel of meal, three c; sks of rum, and what indeed
was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hauser whole, with a great deal of iron-
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-sail yards, but this being so unwieldy, by the
too heavy burden I laid upon it, and not being able
dexterously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and I were overturned; for my part, all the da-
mage I sustained was a wet flcin; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the cables*
and some pieces of iron.
Thjrteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; though, I believe, had the weather been
calm, I should have brought away the whole ship
piece by piece. As I was going the twelfth tjme,
the wind began to rife; however, I ventured at low
water, and rummaging the cabin effectually, in a,
locker I found several razors, sciffars, and some
dozens of knives and forks, and in another thirty-
six pounds in pieces of eight, silver and gold. Ah 7
simple vanity, said I, whom this .world so much doats
on, where is now thy virtue, thy excellence to me? You
Cannot procure me one thing needful, nor remove me from
this desolate sland to a plate of plenty: One of these
knives, so meanly esteemed, is to me more preferable thah
all this heap. Even therefore remain where thou art,
to fink in the deep, as unregarded even as a creature
whose life is not worth preserving. Yet after all this
exclamation, I wrapt it up in a piece of canvas, and
began to think of making another raft; but soon I
perceived the .wind began to rife, a fresh gale blow-
ing from the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds
and darkness. So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let
myself into .the water, with what things I had about
me, and it was with much dissiculty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night 1 slept very contentedly in my little ,
teat, surrounded with all my effects; but when I
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This much surprised me for the present, yet
when I considered I had lost no time, abated no pains,
and had got every thing useful out of her, I com-
forted, myself in the best manner, and entirely sub-
mitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if
any such were in the island. At one time I thought
of digging a cave; at another, I was for erecting
a tent; and, in short, I resolved to do both: The
manner or form of which will not, I hope, be un-
pleasing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was, that
it was moorish, and had no fresh water near it, my
resolutions were to search for a soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men and
beasts of prey, as more easily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my de-
sire; I found a little plain near a rising hill, the
front towards which being as steep as a house-side,
nothing could descend on me from the top. On the
side of this rock was a little hollow place, resem-
bling the entrance or door of a cave. Just before
this place, on the circle of the green, I resolved my
tent should stand. This plain did not much ex-
ceed 100 yards broad, and about twice as long, like
a delightful green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side
of'the hill, so that it was sheltered from the exces-
sive heat of the sun. After this I drew a semi-
circle, containing ten yards in its semi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two .
rows of strong stakes, not six inches from Cich
other; then, with the pieces of cable which I had
cut on board, I regularly laid them in the circle be-
tween the piles up to their tops, which were more
than five feet out of the earth, and after drove ano-
ther row of piles looking within-side against them,
between two or three feet high, which made me
conclude it a little impregnable castle from men and
beasts; and, for my setter security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. Af-
ter which, working on the rock, what with the dirt
and stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground
two feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-
house, and this cost me many days labour and pains;
but one day in particular, a shower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning ensued, which put me in ter-
ror lest my powder ihould take fire, and not only
hinder my necessary subsistence from killing me food,
but even blow up me and my habitation; to pre-
vent which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in ol-
der to separate it, having by me near 15clbs. weight.
And thus being established as king of the island,
every day I went out with my gun to fee what I
could kill that was fit to eat. I soon perceived num-
bers of goats, but very shy; yet having watched
them narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot off the
rocks than when in the low grounds, I one day hap-
pened to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid, who
not thinking its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned,
and when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted. the
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it
alive; but finding it could not be brought to eat, I
was forced to slay it also for my own subsistence.
Thus entered into a strange scene of life as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy apprehen-
B3 *
lions concerning my deplorable condition, and many
jirnes the tears would plentifully run down my face,
when I considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human-kind ; and while some de-
sponding cogitations would seem to make me accuse
Providence, other good thoughts would interpose,
*nd reprove after this manner: Well, supposing you
are desolate, is it not better to be so than total-
ly perish ? Why were you singled out to be saved,
snd the rest destroyed r Why should you complain,
when not only your life is preserved, but the ship
driven even into your reach, in order to take what
was necessary out of her for your subsistence? But to
proceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September when I first landed on this island; about
twelve days after, fearing I should lose my reckon-
ing of time, nay even forget the Sabbath-days, for
want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved it with a
knife upon a large poll, in great letters, and setting
k up, in the similitude-of a cross, on the seashore
where I landed, viz. 1 came ensljore Sept. 30. 1659.
Every day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides
of this square post, and that on Sabbath was as long
again as the rest, and every sirst day of the month as
long again as that long one. In this manner I kept
my kalendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
ef time; but had I made a more strict search (as
I did afterwards) I need not have set up this mark;
for among the parcels belonging to the gunner,
carpenter, and captain's mate, those very things I
wanted I found, particularly pens, ink, and paper;
also two or three compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, prospective glass, books of naviga-
tion, three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. But here I cannot
but call to mind our having a dog and two cats on
board, whom I made inhabitants with me in my ca-
stle. But though one might think I had all the necek -
saries as were desirable, yet still I found several things
wanting. My ink was daily wasting I wanting nee-
dles, pins, and thread, to mend or keep my clothes
together, particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I finished
my little bulwark, and having some intervals of re-
laxation, after my daily wandering abroad for provi-
sion, I drew up this plan alternately, as creditor and
debtor, to remind me of the miseries and bleflings
of my life, under so many various circumstances.
EVIL.
I am cast upon a desolate
island, having no hopes, no
prospect of a welcome deli-
verance.
Thus miserably am I sin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company of all mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
should I say, a lonely an-
chorite) am I forced from
human conversation.
My clothes, after some
time, will be worn out;
and then I shall have none
to cover me.
When my ammunition is
wasted, then shall I remain
without any defence against
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature, no
foul to speak to; none to
beg assistance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
sound my woes where I am
understood; and beg assist-
ance, where I might hope
far relief.
GOOD.
But ytt I am preserved,
while my companions are
perished in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to be spared
from death! and. he who
has so preserved me can de-
siver me from this condition.
However I have food to
eat, and even a happy pro*
spect of subsistence whilst
Use endures.
At present I enjoy what
is absolutely needful; and the
climate is so hot, that, had
I ever so many, 1 should
hardly wear them.
Yet i fit does, I fee no dan-
ger of any to hurt me, as in-
Africa : And what if I had
been cast away on that coast i!
Is there not God to con-
verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee ? Already has-
'he afforded thee sustenance,
and put it in thy power to
provide for thyself till he
sends thee a desiverance.
B4
ROBINSOK CRUSOE.
And now easing my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.
I must here add to the description I have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, I thatched it so close as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather. I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
fage and door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study those
mechanical arts that seemed to me practicable ; for
when I wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a
tree with my hatchet, making it as thin with my
axe as possible, and then smooth enough with my
adze to answer my designs; yet this way could I
make no more than one board out of a tree; but irr
length of time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and my
guns securely hanging against the side of the rock.
All this made it a very pleasant sight to me, being the
result of vast labour and diligence; which leaving
for a while, and me to the enjoyment of, I shall give
the reader an account of my journal, from the day
of my landing till the fixing and settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
'JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. I unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this deso-
late island, which I named the Desolate Island of De-
spair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day I spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect
but of death, either to be starved with hunger, or
devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
O&ob. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had,
that when the storm was abated, I might be able to
get some food and necessaries out of her, which I
conceived were not damaged, because the ship did
stand upright. At this time I lamented the loss of
my companions, and our misfortune in leaving the
vessel. When I perceived the ship, as it were, lie
dry, I waded through the sands, then swam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, an.l with scarcely any
wind.
To the 24th of this month, my time was employ-
ed in making voyages, every tide getting what I
could out of the ship. The weather very wet and'
uncertain.
OElob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon,
were overset; yet I recovered most of them again at
low water.
OElob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship dissolved in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low water.
This day I secured my goods from the inclemency of
the weather.
OElob. 26. I wandered to fee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. I fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half moon, intending
to erect a wall, fortified with piles, lined within with
pieces of cable, and covered with turf.
Nov. t. I erected my tent under a rock, and took
up my lodging very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
AW. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber*
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3.1 shot two wild fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morning
I allowed myself two or three hours to walk out with
'my gun, then worked till near 11 o'clock; and after
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
refreshed myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two I would lie down to sleep. Extreme sultry
weather. In the evening go to work again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those killed I preserved. In
my return I perceived many wild birds, and was ter-
rified by some seals, which made osf to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th,
but omitted the I ith, whieh, according to my calcu-
lation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which however
much cooled the' earth, when thunder and lightning
caused in me a terrible surprise. The weather clear-
ing, in separate parcels I secured my powder.
Nov. 14, to 16. I made little boxes for my pow-
der, lodging them in several places. I also shot a
large fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the
place of the first, but with all my art could not make
a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brasilians call an iron tree. I had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being
very hard, and exceeding heavy; yet with much la-
bour and industry I made a sort of a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days I allowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve me not only for
a warehouse, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I
commonly lay in the tent, unless the weather was
rainy-that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at
certain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within
the pale with long poles in the form of rafters leaning
-
35
against the rock, and load them with slags and large
leaves of trees resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me before I could make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts, to hang things out
of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
made a fort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24. 2;. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats, shot
one, wounded another; I led it home in a string,
bound up its leg, and cured it in a little time; at
length it became so tame and familiar, as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food after my ammunition was
spent.
Dec. 28. 29.. 30. The weather being excessive hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep
within doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by neces-
sity, I went out with my gun, and found a great store
of goats in the valleys ; they were exceeding shy, nor
could my dog hunt them down.
Jan. 3. to 14. My employment this time was to
finish the wall before described, and search the island.
I discovered a kind of pigeons like our house pi-
geons, in a nest among the rocks; I brought them
home, nursed them till they could fly, and then they
left me; after this I shot some, which proved ex-
, cellent food. Some time I spent vainly in contriving-
tp make a Cask; I may well say it was vain, because.
Bo'.
-
I could neither join the staves, or fix the heads, so
as to make it tight; then taking some goat's tallow
I had by me, and a little okum for thewick, I provided
myself with a lamp, which served me instead of can-
dles.
But'now a very strange event happened; for being
in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag, which was used to hold corn (as
I supposed) for the fowls: So immediately resolving
to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the husks and dirt
upon one side of the rock, little suspecting what the
consequence would be. The rain had fallen plenti-
fully a few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to sprout out
very green and flourishing; and when I came to
view it more nicely every day, as it grew, 1 found
about to or 12 ears of green barley appearing in the
very fame shape and make as that in England.
I can scarce express the agitations of my mind at
this fight. Hitherto I had looked upon the actions
of this life no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune; but now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren soil to the sort
of grain, and my ignorance in not conceiving how it
should come there, made me conclude, that miracles
were not yet ceased: Nay, I even thought that God
had appointed it to grow there without any seed>
purely fo» my sustenance in this miserable and deso-
late island. And indeed such great effect had this
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears,
through a grateful fense of God's mercies; and the
greater still was my thankfulness, when I perceived
about this little field of barley some rice stalks, won-
derfully flourishing in proportion to the crop within.
While I was thus surprisingly pleased in mind, I
concluded there must be more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly among
the rocks, but could not find any; when upon a
'
sudden, it came into my mind, how I had shaken
the husks of corn out of the bag, and then my admi-
ration ceased, with my gratitude to the Divine Being,
as thinking it was but natural, and not to be conceived
a miracle; though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wonderful
event of God's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very carefully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting
one day I should reap the fruits of my labour; yet
four years were expired before I could allow myself
to eat any barley bread, and much longer time before
I had any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains
and industry for three or four months, at last I finish-
ed my cave on the 14th of April, having no way to
go into it but by a ladder against the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder and ascended it;
after pulled it up, then let it down on the other side,
and descended into my new habitation, where I had
space enough, and so fortified that nothing could at-
tack me without scaling the walls.-
But what do all human pains and industry avail,
rf the blessings of God do not crown our labours?
Or who can stand before the Almighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm : For one time, as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened such a
dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of the
cave came crumbling about my ears, but the posts
seemed to crack terribly at the same time ; this made
me, in great amazement, run to my ladder, and get
over the wall; when there I plainly knew it was an
earthquake, the place I stood on sustaining three
terrible shocks in less than three minutes. And when
I saw the top of a great rock roll into the sea, then
I expected the island would be swallowed up every
moment; and dreadful it was to fee the sea thrown
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the most violent agitations and disorders by this-
tremendous accident.
For my part I stood like a criminal, at the place
of execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the .
earth, Iwas, as it were, sea-sick, and very much a-
fraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation, should overwhelm me and it in a lasting,
tomb.
When the third dreadful shock had spent itself,
my spirits began to revive; yet still I would not ven-
ture to ascend .the ladder, but continued sitting, not
knowing what I should do. So little grace then I
had, only to say, Lord, have mercy upon me! And no
sooner was the earthquake over, but that pathetic
prayer left me.
It was not long after when a horrible tempest a-
rofej at the same time attended with a hurricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be,
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
storm continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear,
the very trees up by the roots,, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain; when this was over I went
to my tent, but the rain coming again upon me in a
furious manner, obliged me to take shelter in the
cave, and then I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification to let the water out. It continued
raining all that night, and some time the next day':
Yet no sooner did the weather clear up, but I. re-
solved to build me a little hut in some open place,
walled round, to defend me from wild creatures and
savages, as not thinking but at the next earthquake
the mountain would fall upon my habitation and me,
«md swallow up all,in its bowels.
April 19. 20. These days I spent in contriving how
and in what manner I should fix my place of abode;
all this while I was under the most dreadful ap-
prehensions. When I looked round my habitation,,
1
39
every thing I found was in its proper place. I had
several resolutions whether I should move or not; at
length I resolved to stay where I was, till I had found
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
Apr. 22- When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopped for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grind-stone of use to me, and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
the help os a wheel and a string.
Apr. 28. 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
Apr. 30. My bread falling short, I allowed my-
self but one buiscuit a-day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship,' whose stern was torn off,
and washed a great distance ashore, but the rest lay
in the sands. This I supposed was occasioned by the
earthquake. Now I resolved to keep my old place
of abode, and also to go to the ship that day, but
found it impossible.
May 3. I went on board, and with my saw sawed
off one of the beams which kept her quarter-deck;
then I cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some sish, but they were not
wholesome; the same day I also catched a young
dolphin.
May Cj, This day I also repaired to the wreck, and
sawed another piece of timber; and when the flood
came, I made a float of three great planks, which
was driven ashore by the tide.'
May 6. 7. 8. 9. These days I brought off the iroa
bolts, opened the deck with- the iron crow, and car-
Robinson crusoe.
ried two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.
May 10. ii. 12. 13. 14. All this time I spent in
bringing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets, on purpose
to cut some lead off the roll, but all in vain, for it
lay too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day,
for employing myself in looking for pigeons, I out-
stayed my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged' to the head
of the ship. -"
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck,
and with great dissiculty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and many of the seamens
chests; yet that day nothing came to land but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brasil pork
in it. I continued working to the 15th of June (ex-
cept necessary times for food and rest), and had I
known how to have built a boat, I had timber and
planks enough: I had also near 100 weight of sheet
lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the seaside^
I found a large tortoise or turtle, heing the sirst I had
seen on the island, though, as I afterwards found*
there were many on the other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in coaking it, found in
her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savoury and
pleasant I ever tasted in my hfe.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain; and it was something more chilly
and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad7 taken with a tremblings
and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish. ''
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition; prayed to
God frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. Again relapsed, much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak, yet I scrambled
out, shot a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
some of it 1 I would willingly have stewed it and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was asflicted with an ague;
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water; prayed
to God in these words, Lord, in pity look upon me,
Lord have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me I After
this I fell asleep, which I found, had much refreshed
me when I awaked: I fell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream:
Methought I was fitting on the fame spot of
ground, at the outside of the wall, where I sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw
a man descending from a great black cloud and a-
Iight upon the ground: He was all over as bright as
a slash of fire that a little before surrounded him;
his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth,
as it were, trembled when he stepped upon the ground;
and slashes of fire seemed to fill all the air. No sooner
I' thought him landed upon the earth, but with a
long spear or other weapon he made towards me,
but first ascending a rising ground, his voice added
to my amazement, when I thought I heard him pro-
nounce these dreadful words, Unhappy wretch {seeing
all these things have not brought thee to repentance, thott
shalt immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadful
sentence, I thought he went to kill me with the spear
that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express
the horrors of my mind at this vision, and even when
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had
I received from my father's instructions, and that was
worn out by an uninterrupted series of seafaring im-
piety for eight years space; except what sickness for-
ced from me, I do not remember I had one thought of
lifting up my heart towards God, but rather had a
certain stupidity of foul, not having the least fense
of fear of the Omnipotent Being when in distress, nor
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert Afri-
can shore, I cannot remember I had one thought of
what would become of me, or beg his corisolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably used
me, nay, farther, when I was even delivered from
drowning, by escaping to this island, I never looked
upon it as a judgment, but only said I was an unfor-
tunate dog, and that is all. Indeed some secret trans-
ports of foul I had, which was not through grace,
but only a common flight of joy, that I was yet alive,
when my companions were all drowned; and no
other joy could I conceive but what is common with
the sailors over a bowl of punch after they have
escaped the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniencies might have called upon me for a
thankful acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed the
growth of my corn touched me with, some sense, but
that soon wore off again: The terrible earthquake
pointed to me as it were the finger of God, but my
dreadful amazement continued no longer than its
duration. But now when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and I could
leisurely view the miseries of death present themselves
before my eyes, then my awakened conscience began
to reproach me with my past life, in which I had so
wickedly provoked the justice of God to pour down
his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper; some prayers I uttered,
vyliich only proceeded from my fear of death; but
when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping; for he told me, that
is I did persist in my folly, Ishould not only be deprived
(if God's blessing, but have time enough to refiefl upon
my despising his inflruftions, and this in a wretched time
when none could help me. And now concluding it to
be fulfilled, having no foul in the island to admini-
ster any comfort to me, I prayed however earnestly
to the Lord that he would help me in this my great
calamity; and this, I think, was the first time I
prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I must
return to my journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation, and fearing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it a
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed, and to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum into it. The next thing I did was to
broil me a piece of goat's flesh, of which I eat butlittle.
I was very weak, however walked about, dreading
the return of my distemper, and at night I supped
on three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted and
eat, begging God's blefling therewith.
After 1 had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of.
doors with my gun, but so weak that -I fat down
and looked at the sea, which was smooth and calm.
While I continued here these thoughts came into my
mind: "-^
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence
came myself and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made?':
Our beings were assuredly created by some Al-
mighty invisible power, who framed the earth, the
sea, and air, and all therein; but what is that
power?
Certainly it must follow that God has created it
all. Yet, said I, if God has made all this, he must
be the ruler of them all, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes must indis-
putably have a power to guide and direct them.
And if this be so, (as certainly it must) nothing can
happen without his knowledge or appointment.
Then, surely, if nothing happens without God's ap-
pointment, certainly God has appointed these my
sufferings to befal me. And here I fixed my .firm
belief, that it was his will that it should be so; and
then proceeded to inquire, why should God deal
with me in this manner? or what had I done thus
to deserve his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending
me as a blasphemer, crying with a loud and piercing
voice, Unworthy wretch! dare you q/k what you have
done? Look upon your pafl life, and fee what you have
left undone. Alk thyself, why thou wert not long
ago in the merciless hands of death f Why not
drowned in Yarmouth Roads, or killed in the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Why not entombed in the bowels of wild beasts on
the African coast, or drowned here, when all thy
campanions suffered shipwreck?
Struck dumb with these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtful that'I could not
go to steep; and fearing the dreadful return of my
distemper, it caused me to remember that the Bra-
lilians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went
to my chest in order to find some, where heaven no
doubt directed me to a cure for both soul and body,
for there I found one of the bibles, which till this
time I had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into; I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco; first I took a
leaf and chewed it, but it being very green and
strong almost stupified me; next I steeped it in
some rum an hour or two, resolving when I went to
bed to take a dose of it; and in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of sire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure the least heat withi ut
suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the bible-rto read: No sooner did I open itrbut there
appeared to me these words, Call on me in the day of
trouble, and 1 will deliver, and thou Jhalt glorify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart, but soon wore off again, when I con-
sidered the word deliver was foreign to me; and as
the children of Israel snid, when they were promised
flesh to eat, Can God spread a table in the wilderness?'
Jn like manner I began to say, Can God himself
deliver me from this desolate island? However, the
words would still return to my mind, and after made
a great impression upon me. As it now was very
late, and the tobacco had dozed my head, I was in-
clined to sleep, but before I would lie down, I fell
,on my knees, and implored the promise that God
had made to me in the holy scriptures, that if 1 call-
ed upon him in the day of trouble, he .would deliver me.
With much dissiculty I after drank the rum, where-
in I had steeped the tobacco, which flying in my
head very violently, threw me into such a profound
flcep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked, or rather, I believe, I flept two days, ha-
ving certainly lost; a day in my own account, and I
could never tell any other way. When I got up, my
spirits were lively and cheerful, my stomach much
better, being very hungry; and, in short, no fit re-
turned the next day, which was the 29th, but I found
myself much altered for the better.
The 30th I went abroad with my gun, but not far,
and killed a sea fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which yet I cared not to eat when I brought
them home, but dined on two more of the turtle's
eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, ex-
cept not taking that quantity, neither did I chew of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; yet the
next day I had a little spice of the cold fit, which was
on the 1 st of July.
July 2. I took my medicines as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition I often thought of these words, / will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility pf it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me for disregarding the deliverances I had
received, even in the most forlorn and distressed con-
dition. What regard had I to God's abundant mer-
cies ? Had I done my part? He had delivered me, but
I had not glorified him; as much as to fay, I had not
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance,
and how could I expect a greater? So much did this
sensibly touch my heart, that I gave God thanks for
my recovery from sickness in the most humble pro-
stration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving to
read a chapter every morniag and nighc, as long as
my thoughts would engage me ; but when soon after
I set about this work seriously, I found my heart
deeply affected with the impiety of my past life. .
47
These words, that I thought were spoken to me in my
dream, revived, M these things have not brought thee
to repentance: After this, I begged of God to assist
me with his holy spirit in returning to my duty;
when perusing the scriptures one day, I came to
these words, He has exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance and to give remission: Immediately
I laid down the book, and with uplifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried, 0 blessed Jesus, thou Son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance! And now indeed I prayed with a true
fense of my condition, and a more certain hope
founded on the Word of God; now I had a different
sense of these words, Call on me and 1 .will deliver
you; that is, from the dreadful load of guilt which
oppressed my sinful foul, and not from a solitary life,
which might rather be called a blessing (seeing I
wanted neither food nor raiment) than living among
the race of human-kind, surrounded with so much
oppression, misery, and affliction; and in a word, I
came to this conclusion, That a deliverance from sin
was a much greater blessing than a deliverance from
affliction. But again I proceed to my journal.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my gun,
a little and a little at a time, having been reduced to
the greatest extremity of weakness. The applica-
tion and experiment I used were perfectly new ; nei-
ther could I recommend it to any one's practice;
for though it carried off the sit, it very much weak-
ened me, and Miad frequently convulsions -in my
nerves and limbs for some time. From hence I
learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms, and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health. In
this Hland I had been about ten months, never all the
.while having seen any human-kind, and so account-
ed myself as sole monarch; and as I grew better,
having secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
2
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15 th of jsulyl began my journey. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore, and travelling farther, found the tide going
no higher than two miles up, where there was a little
brook of running water, on the banks of which were
many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth,
and covered with grass: On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk.
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtues of
which I did not understand; but a long time I
searched for the cassava root, which I knew the In-
dians in that climate made their bread of, but all in
vain. There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time I knew not what they were; likewise I saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the fame
way, and farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perceived different fruits, which lay in very great
abundance. The melons in plenty lay on the ground,
and clusters of grapes, ripe and very rich, spread
over the trees. You may imagine I was glad of
this discovery, yet eat very sparingly, lest I should
throw myself into a flux or fever. As for the grapes,
I found them of excellent use; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried rai-
sins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nou-
rislrrig, and served me in those seasons when no
grapes were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the sirst
time I had lain out of my habitation. And when
the morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure
tramy way, travelling about four miles, as I ima-
gined, by the length of the valley, directing my
course northward, there being a ridge of hills on the
south, and north side of mew At the end of this val-
ley I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west: There I found a little spring
of fresh water proceeding out of the side of a hill,
with its crystal streams running ^directly east. And
indeed here my fenses were charmed with the most
lovely object nature could afford; for the country
appeared so flourishing, green, and delightful, that
to me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descend-
ed on the side of that delicious vale, where I found
abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time; the juice
of which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
was resolved to carry home and lay up a store of
grapes, limes, and lemons, against the approaching
wet season: So laying them up in separate parcels,
and then taking a few of each with me, I returned to
my little castle, after having spent three day3 in this
journey: But before I got home, the grapes were so
bruised that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but few could I bring away.
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprise found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me to conclude there were wild
creatures thereabouts. To remedy this, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out-branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the fun; and having well loaded myself
with limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.
And now it was, that contemplating on the fruit-
fulness of the valley, the pleasantness of the situation,
C
the security from storms on that fide the water, and
the delightfulnefs of an adjacent wood, I concluded
I was settled in the worst pirt os the country, and
therefore was thinking to remove my habitation. But
when I considered again, that though it was pleasant,
it was not by the sea-side, where there was a possibi-
lity, some time or other, a ship might either be driven
to, or sail by that coast; and that to inclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly frustrate all
hopes of a deliverance, I resolved to let my castle
remain where Providence had first assigned it. Yet
so ravished was I with this place, that I made me a
little kind of bower, surrounding it at a distance
with a double hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well
staked and filled with bullrushes; and having spent
a great part of the month of July, I think it was the
first of August before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raisins of the fen; the most of which I carried to my
cave; and happy for me I did so, by which I saved
the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. It began to rain this day; and though I
had made m? a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, 1 was obliged to return to
my old castle. Still the rain continued more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
4b violently that I could net stir out of my cave
for several days. This season I sound my family to
increase; for one of my cats that ran away from me,
and whom I thought had been dead, returned about
August, with three kittens at her heels, like herself,
which I thought strange, because both my cats were
females, and the wild cats of the island seemed to be
of a disferent kind fiom our European cats; but from
these cats proceeded such numbers, that I was forced
to kill and destroy them, as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not stir out, it
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which
I shot a goat, and after found a very large tortoise.
The manner of regulating my food was thus: A
bunch of raisins served me for breakfast; a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner; and two
or three turtle's eggs for my supper. While the rain
lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at enlar-
ging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards
one fide till I came to the outside of the hill, and
made a door or way out, which came beyond, my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to fee my-
self thus exposed, though I could not perceive any
thing to fear, a goat being the biggest creature I had
seen upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anni-
versary of my landing; and therefore humbly pro-
strating myself on the ground, confessing my sins,
'acknowledging God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy on me, I
faded for twelve hours till the going down of the fun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time, having no fense of reli-
gion, I never distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now
I made a longer notch than ordinary for the days of
rest and divided the weeks as well as I could, though
I found I ha£l '°st a day or two in my account. Soon
after my ink failing, I omitted a daily memoran-
dum of indifferent things, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
jj£e Xhe rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
lar to me? and experience taught me how to pro-
's Ci
vide for them; yet, in one thing I am going to re-
late, my experience very much failed me. You may
call to mind what I have mentioned of some bar-
ley and rice which I had faved; about thirty stalks
of the former, and twenty of the latter; and at that
time the fun being in its southern position going from
me together with the rains, made me conclude it a
very proper season to sow it. Accordingly, I dug up
a piece of giound with my wooden spade, and divid-
ing it in two parts, sowed*about two-thirds of my
feed, preserving by me about a handful of each. And
happy it was I did so, for no rains falling, it was'
choked up, and never appeared above the earth till
the wet season came again, and then it grew as if it
had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my bower,
there I sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox, which having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. Part of
the seed I had yet saved, not daring to venture all;
and my crop amounted to above half a peck of each
sort. But by this time I found the proper seasons to
sow in; and that two seed-times and two harvests I
might expect every year.
No sooner were the rains over, and the stakes,
which I had cut from the trees, shooting like willow-
trees the first year after lopping their heads, than I
was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they
grew so regularly beautiful, that they made a most
lovely appearance, and flourished so in three years
time, that I resolved to cut some more; and these
soon growing made a glorious fence, as in order I
shall observe.
And now I perceived that the season of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer and win-
Dry, sun getting north of the line.
ter as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons, as in
this manner:
Half February, '}
March, V Rainy,sun coming near the equinox.
Half April, J
Half April,
May,
June,
July.
Half August,
Half August, 1
September, \ Wet, the sun being then come back*
Half October, J
Half October, 1
November, I
December, f Dry,sun running south of the line*
January, I
. Half February, J
v
As the winds happened to blow, so the wet seasons
would continue longer or shorter; but when I sound
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I
took care beforehand to furnish myself with provi-
sions, and during the wet months fat within doors
as much as possible ; and in this time I contrived
to make many things that I wanted, though it was
with much labour and pains before I could accom-
plish them. The first I tried was to, make a.basket,
but all the twigs I could get proved so brittle, that
I could not then perform it. But now it proved of
excellent advantage to me, that, when a boy, I took
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the
fame town where my father lived, to view them at
work, and like other boys, curious to fee trie man-
ner of their working these things, and very ossicious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it, and
wanted nothing but the tools; and then it came
C 3 \
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into my mind that the twigs of that tree of which I
made my stakes might he as tough as sallow, willow,
and osiers, growing in England; and so resolving to
make an experiment, I went the next day to my
country seat, and sound some fit for my turn; and
cutting down numbers with my hatchet, I dried them
in my pale, and when fit to work with, carried them
lo my cave, where I employed myself in making se-
veral sorts of baskets, to put in whatsoever I pleased;
it is true, they were not cleverly made, yet they serv-
ed my turn upon all occasions.
But still I » anted two necessary things ; I had ne-
ver a cask to hold my liquor, except two rumlets al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size,
and some square case bottles ; neither had I a pot to
boil any thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to make
broth or stew a bit of meat; after this I wanted a
tobacco pipe, for which last I found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second row
of stakes, and worked in this wicker the dry season.
You may remember before, that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island;
accordingly, taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two bis-
cuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, I began my
journey ; and having passed the vale where my bower
stood, I came within view of the sea, lying to the west,
when it being a clear day, I fairly descritd land, but
could not say whether it was an island or a continent.
It extended from the \V. to the W. S. W. about ten
or fifteen leagues, as 1 concluded; neither could I
tell what place this might be, only thought it was
part of America, and where I might have been in a
miserable condition had I landed. Again, 1 considered,
that if this was the .Spanish coast, certainly one time or
other I should see some ship pass by, and if it was not,
then it must be the savage coast between the Spanisti
55
country and Brasil, which abounds with cannibals or
man-eaters, that devour human-kind.
As I proceeded forward I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine, the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grafs,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great dissiculty that
I could knock it down with my stick, and it was
some years I kept him at home before I could get
him to call me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
and foxes, as I thought them, but much disferent from
all I had met with: Several of these I killed, but
never eat them, neither indeed had I any occasion,
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
1 could defy Leadenhall-market to furnish me a
better table. In this journey I did not travel above
two miles in a day, because I took several turns and
windings to fee what discoveries I could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I designed
to rest all night, which was either in a tree or in a
place which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild
creature might suddenly surprise me. When I came
to the sea-shore I was amazed to fee the splendour
of it; its strand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful fish, and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins. I
might have shot as many as I pleased, but was spar-
ing of my ammunition, rather choosing to kill a she-
goat, which with much dissiculty I did, because of
the slatness of the country.
Now, though this journey produced the most pleas-
ing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so natural to
me, that 1 did not repine at my being seated on the
worst part os the island; and so travelling about 12
miles towards the east, I set a great pile on the
shore for a mark, concluding that my next journey
should be on the other side of the island, east from
my caftle, and so round till I came to my post again.
However I took another way back, thinking I could
not miss by having a constant view of the country;
but scarce had I travelled three miles, when I de-
scended into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills that were covered with wood, that I had no guide
but by the fun, nor even then unless I knew west
the position of the fun at that time of the day. What
added to my misfortune was, the weather proved so
hazy for three or four days as to oblige me to re-
turn to my post by the sea-side, and so backwards the
fame way I came. ' My dog surprised a kid in this
journey, and would have "killed it, had I not pre-
vented him. I had often been musing whether I
could not get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats to supply me after my ammunition was
spent. Upon which I made a collar for this little
creature with a string made of rope-yarn which I al-
ways carried about with me; and when I came to
my bower, there I inclosed and left him, and after a
month's time in this journey I came home to my old
habitation.
Nobody can suppose otherwise but that I had a
pleasing satisfaction when I returned to my little
castle, and reposed myself in my hammock. After
this journey I rested myself a week ; and the princi-
pal concern I then had was to make a cage for my
pretty poll; and then I began to consider the poor
kid I had left at my bower, and immediately I went
to fetch it home. When I came there, I found the
young creature almost starved ; when feeding it with
branches of such shrubs as I could find, I tied it as
before; but there was no occasion, for it followed me
like a dog, and as I constantly fed it, became so lov-
ing, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one of my
domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the molt
solemn manner as usual, it being the third year of my
abode in the island. I spent the whole day in acknow-
ledging God's mercies, in giving him thanks for mak-
ing this solitary life as agreeable, and less sinful, than
that of human society, and for the communications of
his grace to my foul, supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon his- providence^, and
hope for his eternal presence in the world to-come.
Before I considered how happy I was in this state
of life, towards that accursed manner of living I for-
merly used, while either I was hunting or viewing
the country, the anguisli of my foul would break out
upon me on a sudden,.and my very heart would sink
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner, lock-
ed up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean,
in an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes and
without redemption; and in this condition 1 would
often wring my hands and weep like a child; even
in the middle of my work this fit would take me,
and then I would immediately sit down and sigh,
looking on the ground for an hour or two together,
till such time as my grief would be vented, by burst-
ing out into, melting tears*.
As one morning I was suddenly pondering in my
mind, I opened my Bible, when immediately I fixed
iny eyes upon these words, / will never leave thee nor
forsake thee.' Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me, or else why should they appear just at
a moment when I am bemoaning my forlorn condi-
tion ? And if God does not forsake me, what matters-
it, since he can make me more happy in this state of
life than if I- enjoyed the greatest splendour in the
world? But while I was going to return God
thanks for my present state, something seemed to-
shock my mind, as if it had thus said, Unworthy
wretch! can you pretend to be thankful for a con-
dition from which you would pray to be delivered I
Here I/stopped; and though I could not say I thanked
the divine Majesty for being there, yet 1 gave God
thanks for placing to my view my former wicked
course of life, and granting me a true knowledge of
repentance. And whenever I opened or shut the
Bible, I blest kind Providence that directed my goods
without my order, and for assisting me to save it from
the power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: Firfl, My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly,
Seeking provision with my gun, which commonly
took me up, when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserv-
ing, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply, which took me up a great part of the
tlay ;i^and in the middle-of the day, the sun being in
its height, it was so hot that I could not stir out,
so that I had but four hours to work in; and then
my want of tools, help, and skill, wasted a great
deal of time; for I was two-and-forty clays making
a board fit for a long shelf, whereas two sawyers,
with their tools and sawpit, would have cut several
out of the same tree in half a day. But this was the
cafe, it was to be a large tree, because my board was
to be broad; I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping off the boughs and redu-
cing it to a piece of timber; this I hacked and hewed
off each side till it became light to move, then I
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as %
board, from end to end, then turned it downward?
cutting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue
S9
in such a piece of work; but this I went through
.with patience, as also many other things that my cir-
cumstances made-necessary for me to do.
But now came my harvest months, November and
December, in which I had the pleasing prospect of
a very good crop ; but such was my misfortune, that
the goats and hares having once tasted of the sweet-
ness of the blade, kept it so short, that it had not.
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent which,
J inclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot some of
its -ievourers, and my dog, which I had tied to the
field-gate, keeping barking all night, frightened the -
. Qreat.ures away.
No sooner did I get rid of these, but other ene-
mies appeared, whole flocks of several sorts of birds,
who only waited till my back was turned to ruin me.
So much did this provoke me, that I let fly and
killed three of the malefactors, and afterwards served
them as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror to others; and indeed
so good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long as
these criminals hung there. .. ,
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest of the year,
I reaped it with a scythe,made of one of my broad
swords. I had no great fatigue in cutting down my
sirst crop, it was so slender, , the ears of which I
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with my
hands instead of threshim* it.; and when my harvest
was over, I found my half peck of feed produce near
two bushels of rice, and two bufliels and a half of
barley. And now I plainly foresaw that, by God's
goodness, I stiould be furnished with bread; but yet
I was concerned, because I knew not how to grind or
make meal of my corn, nor bread, neither knew how
to bake it. Upon these considerations I would not
taste any of the crop, but preserve it against the next
* /'V s
season, and in the mean while use my best endeavours
to provide myself with materials to make bread.
But where were my labours to end? The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade after a
particular manner; the want of a harrow, I sup-
plied myself by dragging over the corn a great bough
of a tree; when it was growing or fully ripe, I
was forced to fence it, mow it, carry it home, thresh
it, part it from the chasf, and save it; and after all
this, I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it,
yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to
bake it. This set my brains on work to find some
expedient for every one of these necessaries against
the next harvest.
And now, having more feed, my first care was to
prepare me more land. I pitched upon two large
slat pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose,
in which I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge, which took me up three months, by which
time it was the wet season. While the rain kept
me within doors, I found several occasions to em-
ploy myself; and while at work used to divert my-
self with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name Poll, the first welcome
word 1 ever heard spoke on the island. I had been a
long time contriving how to make earthen vessels,
which I wanted extremely; and when I considered
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could
find any proper clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile to see what
aukward ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things
I made ; how many either fell out or cracked by the
violent heat of the fun, and fell in pieces when they
6t
were removed; so that I think it was two months
time before I could perfect any thing, and after this
great fatigue, made two clumsy things in imitation
of earthen jars; these however I very gently placed
in wicker baskets, made on purpose for them, and
- between the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw, and these 1 presumed would
hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal when the
corn was bruised. But as for smaller things, I made
them with better success, which the fun baked very
hard, such as little round pots, Sat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any
liquid thing, but to bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It once happened, that as I was
putting out my fire, I found therein a broken piece
of one of my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as
a tile. This made me contrive how to order my fire
as to make it burn some pots ; and having no notion
of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead, I fixed three
large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile one
upon another; the fire I piled round the outside
with dry wood, and on the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly
red, I let one of them stand in the fire about five or
six hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of
the heat, and would have run to glass had I suffered
it -y upon which I slacked my fire by degrees, till the
redness abated ; and watching them till the morning,
I found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn as I
could desire.
No py can be greater than mine at this disco-
very; for after this, I may fay, I wanted for no
fort of earthen ware. I silled one of my pipkins with
water to boil me some meat, which \t did admirably
well, and with a piece of kid I made me some good
broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time. .'
The next concern I had was to make me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
gWnd it. Here indeed I was at a great lo s, as not
being sit for a stone-cutter, and many days 1 spent
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow
and make fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear
the weignt of a pestle, as would bre.ik the corn
without silling it .with sand ; but all the stones of the
island b. ing of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search ircitleik; and then I resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which having soon found,
1 formed with my axe and hammer, and then with
infinite labour m:ide a hollow place in it, just as the
Indians of Brasil make their canoes. When I had
finished this, 1 made a great pestle of iron-wood,
which I had formerly laid up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve to sift my
meal, and part it from the bran and the husk. Hav-
ing no sine thin canvas to search the meal throughi
I could not tell what to do; what linen I had was
reduced to rags; I had goats hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it:
At length I remembered 1 had some neckcloths of ca-
lico or muflin of the,.sailors, which I ha j. brought *
out of the ship, and with these I made three small
sieves, proper enough for the work. . -
And now I come to consider the baking part in
course. The want of an oven I supplied by making
some earthen pans very broad but not deep. When
I had a mind to bake, I made a great fire upon my
.hearth, the tiles of which I had made myself, and
when the wood was burnt into live coals, I spread
them all over it, till it became very hot; then sweep-
ing them away, I set down my loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pots upon them, drew the ashes
and coals all around the outside of the pots to con-
tinue the heat; and in this manner I used to bake
my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a complete
pastry-cook, making myself of the lice several cakes
and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
I had was bestowed in managing my new harvest and
husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time toirub, instead of thresh-
ing it. And now indeed my corn increased so much,
that it produced me about twenty bushels of barley,
and as much of rice, so that I not only began to use
it freely, but was thinking how to enlarge my barns,
and was resolved to sow as much at a time as would
be sussicient for me for a whole year.
All this while the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes might have
deterred me from it; for after I had attained that
place, I run the hazard of being killed and eaten by
the devouring cannibals ; and if they were not so, yet
I might be slain, as other Europeans had been who
fell'info their hands. Notwithstanding-all this, my
thoughts ran continually upon my acquiring that
shore.; and now I wanted my boy Xury, and the
Jong boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail. Then I
went to. the ship's boat that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late storm; she was but a
little removed, but her bottom was turned up by the
impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind.' With
all the strength I had, I tried whatever I could do,
with levers aud rollers I had cut from the wood, to
turn her, and repair the damages she had sustained.
This work took me up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mine it by digging away the sand, and so make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
in the fall; but after this was done, I was unable to
stir it up again, or to get under it, much less to movd
it forwards towards the water, and so I was forced to
give it over.
Not contented with this disappointment, I began
to think whether it was not possible for me to make
a canoe or periagua, such as the Indians make of the
trunk of a tree -t but here I lay under particulai
inconveniencies, want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it to the water when it was
made; however, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the inquiries I could make, with this very simple
answer I made to myself, Let's first make it, I'll war-
rant I'll find some way or other to get it along when
it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end
of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a
space, and then parted into branches. Twenty days
was I hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom,
fourteen more in cutting off the branches and limbs,
and a whole month in shaping it like the bottom
of a boat; as for the inside, I was three weeks with
a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such a manner
as that it was big enough to carry twenty-six men-,
much bigger than ever a canoe I saw in my life, and
consequently sussicient to transport me and all my
effects to that wished-for shore I so ardently desir-
ed.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
dissiculty to get it into the water, it lying about'ioa
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience^
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity; but
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insussicient to move it, as it was when I attempted
to move the boat. Then I proceeded to measure the 1
distance of ground, resolving to- make a canal, in or-
der to bring the water to the canoe, since I could not
bring the canoe to the water i but as this seemed to
be impracticable to myself alone, under the space of
eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some sort
of consideration, that I concluded it impossible to
be, done, and To this attempt was in vain also. And
now I saw, and not before, what stupidity it is to be-
gin a work before we reckon its costs, or judge right
of our own abilities to go through with its perform-
ance. ......'
It was in the height of this work my fourth year
expired since I was cast on this island, and then
I did not forget my anniversary, but kept it with the
same ardent devotion I had done before. But now
my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world
as a thing 1 had nothing to do with; and very well
might fay, as father Abraham unto Dives, Between
me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed from
the world I was separated, from its wickedness too,
having neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, or the pride of life; I had nothing to covet, be-
ing lord, king, or emperor over the whole country I
bad in possession, without dispute, and without con-
troul; I had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles,
timber in abundance, and grapes above measure;
but after I was served, what was all the rest to. me I
Xhe money I had by me lay as despicable dross,
which I would freely have given for a gross of to-
bacco-pipes, or a hand-mill' to grind my corn. In a
word, the nature and experience of these things- die-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
tated to me this just; reflection, That the good things
of this world are no farther good to us than they are
for our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give others, we can but enjoy as much as we use, and
no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to eat I did it with
thankfulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
that in this wilderness had spread this table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I should
have done if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before 1 had caught fish
or turtles, or lived, had I found them, like a mere
savage, by eating them raw, and pulling them in
pieces with my claws, like a beast. I next compared
my station to that which I deserved; how undutiful
I had been to my parents; how destitute of the fear
of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from Heaven, being fed, as it were, by a mi-
racle, even as great Elijah's being fed by ravens,
and cast on a place where there was no venomous
creature to poison or devour me. In short, mak-
king God's tender mercies matter of great conso-
lation, I relinquished all sadness, and gave way to
contentment. - ».t. '-'
As long as my ink continued, which with water I
made last as long as I could, I used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened. And,
First, I observed, That the sa ne day I forsook, my
parents and friends, arid ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken and made a slave by the Sallee ro^
ver.
The very day I escaped out of the wreck of the
ship in Yarmouth Roads, a year after, on the fame
day, I made my escape from Sallee, in my patron's
fi fliing-boat.
The 30th of September, being the day of the year
I was born on, on that day twenty-six years after,
was I miraculously saved, and cast on shore on this
island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit which I had brought out of the ship; and
though I allowed myself but one Cake a day, for
above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread
for near a year, before I got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before; however, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors chec-
qued shirts, which proved a great refreshment to me,
when the violent beams of the fun would not fusses
me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-coats,
which made me turn taylor, and after a miserable
botching manner, convert them into jackets. To pre-
serve my head, I made me a cap of goat-lkin, with
the hair outwards, to keep out the rain, which in-
deed served me so well, that 1 afterwards made me
a waistcoat and open-knee'd breeches of the fame;
and then I contrived a fort of an umbrella, covering
it with skins, which not only kept out the heat of
the fun, but the rain also. Thus being easy and set-
tled in my mind, my chiefest happiness was to con-
verse with God, in most heavenly and comfortable
ejaculations.
For five years after this I cannot fay any extraor-
dinary thing occurred to me. My chief employ-
ment was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and
rici, of both which 1 had a year's provision before-
hand. But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it at intermediate times my business to
make a second, of much inferior size ; aud it was two
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
years before I finished it. But as I perceived it would'
no ways answer rny design of sailing to the other
shore,, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what further discoveries I-
could make. To this intent, after having moved
her to the water, and tried how she would sail, I
fitted up a little mast to her, and made a sail of
the ship's fail that lay by me; I then made lockers
or boxes at the end of it, to put in necessary provi-
sions and ammunition, which would preserve them
dry either from rain or the spray of the sea; and in
the inside of the boat I cut a long hollow place to
» lay my gun, and to keep it dry, made a slag to hang
over 'it; my umbrella I fixed in a step in the stern
like a mast, to keep the heat of the sun off me. And
now resolving to fee the circumference of my little
kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage,,
putting in two dozen of my barley bread loaves,
an earthen pot full of parched rice, a little bottle
of rum, half a goat, powder and shot, and- two
watchcoats. It was the 6th of November, in the
6th year of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in
this voyage, which was much longer than I expect-
ed, being obliged to put further out, by reason of the
rocks that lay a great way in the sea; and indeed
so much did these rocks surprise me, that I was for
putting back, fearing that if I ventured further, it
would be out of my power to return. In this con-
fusion I came to an anchor just off shore, to which
I waded with my gun on my shouhler, and then
climbing up an hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and resolved to run all
hazard.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a vio-
lent current running to the east, coming very close
to the point, which I the more carefully observed,
thinking it dangerous, and that, when I came to it, I
might be drove into the sea by its force, and not abla
69
to return to the island; and certainly it must have
been so, had I not made this observation; for on
the other side was the like current, with this differ-
ence, that it set osf at a greater distance, when I per-
ceived there was a strong eddy under the land, so
that my chiefest business was to work out of the first
current, and conveniently get into an eddy. Two
days I staid here, the wind blowing very briskly
E. S E. which being contrary to the current, leaves
a great breach on the sea upon the point; so it was
not fit for me to keep too near the shore, upon ac-
count of the breach, nor to stand at too great a dis-
tance for fear of the streams. That night the wind
abating, it grew so calm that I ventured out; but
surely I was to be a memento to all rash and igno-
rant pilots; for I was no sooner come to the point,
and not above the boat's length from the shore, but
I was got into a deep water, with a current like a
mill, which drove my boat along so violently, that
it was impossible for me to keep her so much as to
the edge of it; but it forced me more and more out
from the eddy to the left -of me, and all I could do
with my paddles was useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Alas! now I began to think'myself quite lost^
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island, L
was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea,
after what provisions ] had was spent, or besore, if a
storm should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? With longing eyes did I
look upon my little kingdom, and thought the island
the pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee mprei
Wretched creature t whither am I going? Why did
I murmur at my lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be there again?
I
While I was thus contemplating, I found myself to
t>e driven about two leagues into the sea; however,
1 laboured till my strength was spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon, I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart the more, when,
in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been lost
another way, for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards the
island, if once it had disappeared; but it proving the
contrary, I set up my mast again, spread my sail, and
stood away northward, as much as I could, to get
rid of the current; and no sooner did the boat be-
gin to stretch away, but I perceived by the clearness
of the water, a change of the current was near^ for
where it was clear the current abated. To the east
I soon saw, about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rock?, which caused it again to separate;
and as the main force drove away more southwardly,
leaving the rocks to the north east, so the other came
back by the repulse of the rocks, making a sharp
eddy, which returned back again to the north west
with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the ladder, or to be saved from thieves
just going to take away their lives, or else such who
have been in the like calamities, may guess my pre-
sent excess of joy; how heartily I run my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread
my sail to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully
before it with a smart tide under foot. By the as-
sistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, I found the water to be
at a sort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock which caused thi$
disaster, stretching, out as I observed before to the
southward, which throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasioned another eddy to the
north; but having a fair brisk gale, I stretched a-
cross this eddy, and in an hour came within a mile
of the shore, where I soon landed to my unspeakable
comfort; and after an humble prostration, thanking
God for my deliverance, with a resolution to leave
all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe into a little cove, and laid me down to take a
welcome repose. When I awoke, I was considering
how I might get my boat home; and coasting along
the shore I came to a good bay, which ran up to a
rivulet or brook, where finding a safe harbour, 1 stow-
ed her as safe as if she had been in a dry dock made
on purpose for her.
And now I perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on soot; when taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, I be-
gan my journey, and in the evening came to my
bower, where I again laid me down to rest. But it
was not long before I was awakened in great surprise
by a strange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, Poor Robin! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been f
So fast was I asleep at first that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I thought
I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. . But as the
voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times, being
terribly asfrighted, I started up in the utmost con-
fusion; when no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll fitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me;
for just in such bewailing language I used to talkand
teach him, which he so exactly learned, that hq
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my-
2
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
face, and cry, Po»r Robinson Crusoe, where are you f
Where have you been? Honv came you here? and such
like prattle as I had constantly taught him. But
though I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great
while before I could adjust myself; first, I was amaz-
ed how the creature got thither, and that he should
fix about that place, and no where else. When I
was assured it could be no other than my honest Poll,
my wonder ceased; so reaching out my hand, and
calling familiarly Poll, the creature came to me, and
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and Hoiu
did I come here? and where had I been? as if the
bird was overjoyed to fee me; and so I took him
home along with me.
Now though I was pretty well cured of my ram-
bling to sea again, yet I could wish my boat, which
had cost me so much trouble and pains, on this fide
the island once more, which indeed was impracti-
cable; and so I led a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, 1 fanci-
ed I could, upon occasion, make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the tools I had to work withal but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I con-
trived to make them with a wheel, which I found
much easier and better ; making my work shapeable,
which before was rude and ugly. But I think 1 was
never so elevated with my own performance or pro-
ject, as for being able to make a tobacco-pipe, which
though it proved an aukward clumsy thing, yet it
was very sound and carried the smoke perfectly well,
to my great satisfaction.
Also I improved my wicker ware, making me a-
bundance of necessary baskets, which though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
73
things home in, as also for holding my stores, bar-
ley, rice, and-other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner I stiould kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and fee if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I found
one morning in one of them an old he-goat, and in
the other three kids, one male, the other two fe-
males.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For had I kept him three
or four days without victuals, and then given him
some water with a little corn, he would have been
as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together. But I had great dissiculty be-
fore I could bring them to my habitation. It was
some time before they would feed, when throwing
them some corn, it so much tempted them, that they
began to be tame; from hence I concluded that if
I designed to furnish myself with goats flesh, when
my ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them
up like a flock of sheep about my settlement was the
only method I could take. I concluded also I must:
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this was to have some inclosed piece of ground,
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them
so esfectually that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking
was very great for one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first care
was to find a convenient piece of ground, where there
was iikely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and -cover to keep them from the fun.
But here I began madly, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I inclosed it with
infinite pains, this hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles about. Indeed had it been ten miles
I had time enough to do it in; but then I did not
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole island, and
consequently as dissicult for me to catch them. And
this thought came into my head, after I had carried
on, I believe, about fifty yards; when I resolved to
inclose a piece of ground 150 yards in length and
ico in breadth, sussicient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more grodnd. Upon
which, I vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took
me about three months in hedging the first piece; in
'which time I tethered the three kids in the best part
of it, feeding them as near me as possible to make
them familiar: And indeed very often would I carry
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which means they grew
so tame, that when my inclosure was finished, and I
had let them loose, they would run after me for an
handful of corn. This indeed answered my end;
and in a year and a half's time I had a flock of about
twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years after
they amounted to three-and-forty, besides what I had
taken' and killed for my sustenance. After this, I
inclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with pens to drive them into, that I might take them
as 1 had occasion.
, But still I had additional blessings, not only in
having plenty of goatb flesh, but milk too, which in
my beginning 1 did not so much as think of: And
incited, though I had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet after some
efl'yys and miscarriages I made me both, and never
afterwards wanted. . '<-< > . -
>
75
How mercifully can the Omnipotent Power com-
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities! How can he sweeten the bitterest provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons ! What a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, when I expected no-
thing at first but to perish with hunger!
Certainly a stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner. There was my royal Majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
my dutiful subjects, whom, if I pleased, I could ei-
ther hang, draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it
away. When I dined, I seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring presume to do so till I had done. Poll,
as if he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and who
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, con-
tinually fat at my right hand; while my two cats
fat on each side of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. Yet
these were not the cats I had brought from the
ihip ; they had been dead long before, and interred
near my habitation by mine own hand: But one of
them, as I suppose, generating with a wild cat, these
'were the couple I had made tame; whereas the rest
run into the woods, and grew so impudent as to re-
turn and plunder me of my stores, till such time as I
shot a great many, and the rest left me with this at-
tendance. And in this very plentiful manner did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing more indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat. I knew not which way to get her round the
island. I resolved one time to go along the shore by
land to her; but had any one in England met such a
figure, it would either asfrighted them, or made them
burst into laughter: Nay, myself could not but smile
at my habit, which I think, in this place, it is very
proper to describe.
The cap I had upon my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat-slcin, with a slap or pent-
house hanging down behind, not only to keep the
sun from me, but to shoot the rain osf from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the flesh in these parts. I had
a short jacket of goat-lkin, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that it reached to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stockings, I
had none, but made a resemblance of something, I
know not what to call them; they were made like
buskins, and laced on the sides like spatterdashes,
barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit. I had
on me a broad belt of goat-lkin dried, girt round
with a couple of thongs instead of buckles; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and
dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another
belt, not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made also of
goat-skin, to hold my powder and shot. My basket
I carried on my back, and my gun on my shoulder,
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat-skin
umbrella, which, however, next my gurs, was the
molt necessary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not so swarthy as the mulattos, or as might
be expected from such a person as I, who took so
little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten de-
grees of the equinox. At one time my beard grew
so long, that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as s had both razors and scislars in store,
I cut it ail oft', and sussered none to grow except a
large pah ot Mahometan whiskers, the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, not long
enough to hang a hat upon, but of such a mon-
77
tlrous size, as would have amazed any in England to
have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit; and
so without fear, and without controul, I proceeded
on my journey, the prosecution of which took me up
five or six days. I first travelled along the sea-shore
directly to the place where I first brought my boat
to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but now, hav-
ing no boat to take care of, I went over the land a
nearer way, to the fame height that I was before
upon; when looking forward to the point of the
rock which lay out, and which I was forced to
double with my boat, I was amazed to fee the sea so
smooth and quiet, there being no ripling motion, or
current, any more than in other places, which
made me indeed ponder some time to imagine the
reason of it, when at last 1 was convinced how it was,
which was this; the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the currents of waters from some great
rivers on the shore, must be the occasion of these ra-
pid streams ; and that consequently, as the winds blew
more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the current
came the nearer, or went the further from shore. To
fatisfy my curiosity, I waited there till evening, when
the tide of ebb being made from the rock, I plainly-
perceived the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther oif, near half a league from
the shore; whereas in my expedition it set quite up-
on it, furiously hurrying me and my canoe along with
ir, which at another time it would not have done-
And now I was convinced that, by observing the eb-
bing and flowing of the tide, I might easily bring my
boat round the island again; but when I began to
think of putting it in practice, the remembrance of
the late danger I was in struck me with such horror,
that I changed my resolution, which was more safe,,
though more laborious; and this was to make ano~
ther canoe, and so have one for one side os the ifl uid,-
and one for the other. - -
Here I ihink it very proper to inform my readers,
that I had two plantations in the island; the first
was my little fortification, fort, or castle, with many
large and spacious improvements; for by this time
I had enlarged the cave behind me with several little
caves, one within another, to hold my baskets, corn,
and straw. The piles with which I made my wall
were grown so lofty and great, as obscured my ha-
bitation; and near this commodious and pleasant
settlerneift lay my two well cultivated and improved
corn fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in
the proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country feat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where, having planted many
stakes, I made inclosures for my goats, so strongly
fortified by labour and time, that it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossible
for them to break through. As for my bower itself,
J kept it constantly in repair, and cut the trees in
such a manner as made them grow thick and wild,
and form the most delightful shade. In the centre
of this stood my tent thus erected: I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over them a piece of
the ship's fail, beneath which I made me a sort of
a couch, with the skins of the creatures I had slain,
and other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailors blankets, which I had saved from the wreck
of the sliip, and covering myself with a great watch-
coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and keep her in very good order; and
sometimes I would venture in her a cast or two srom
shore, but no sarther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accident,
should hurry me from the island as before. But now
I entreat your attention, while 1 proceed to inform
you of a new but most surprising scene of life which
here befel me.
You may suppose that after I had been here so
long, nothing could have been more amazing than to
have seen a human creature. But-one day it hap-
pened that going to my boat, I saw the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, very evident on the
'fand, as the toes, heel, and every part of it. Had
I seen an apparition, in the most frightful manner, I
Could not have been more confounded; my willing
ears gave the strictest attention. I cast my eyes a-
round, but neither could satisfy the one or the other.
When I proceeded alternately to every part of the
shore, still it was all as one; neither could I fee any
other mark, though the sand about it was as suscep-
tible to take impression as that which was so plainly
stamped. Thus, struck with confusion and horror, I
returned to my habitation, frightened at every bush
and tree, as taking them for men; and being pos-;
sessed with the wildest ideas, got over I cannot tell
how. But that night my eyes never closed, though
farther from danger, when even then I formed no-
thing but the most dismal imaginations, thinking it
must be the mark of the Devil's foot which I had
seen; for otherwise how could any mortal body come
to this island? And if so, where was the ship that
transported them ? And what signs of any other foot-
steps? Though these seemed very strong reasons for
such a supposition, yet (thought I) why should the
Devil make the print of his toot to no purpose, as I -
can fee, when he might have taken other ways to have
terrified me? why mould he leave his mark on the
other'side of the island, and that too on the sand,
where the surging waves of the ocean might soon
have erased the impression? Surely this action is not
consistent with the subtilty of S uan, laid I to my-
self, but rather must be some dangerous creatme,
some wild savage of the main land over against me,
D4
V-.
that, venturing too far in the ocean, was driven here
either by the violent currents or contrary winds; and
so, not caring to stay on this desolate island, was
gone back to sea again.
Happy was I in my thoughts that no savage had
seen me in that place, yet much terrified, lest, hav-
ing found my boat, they should return in numbers
and destroy me, or at least carry away all my corn,
and destroy my flock of tame goats: In a word, all
my religious hopes vanished, as though I thought
God could not protect me by his power, who had so
wonderfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of Providence there are in the
life of man! How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to different circumstances? We love to*
day what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour what
we seek the next; and this was evident in me in the
most perspicuous manner; for I, who before had so
much lamented my condition, in being banished from
all human kind, was now almost ready to expire,
when I considered that a man had set his foot on this
desolate island : But when I considered my station of
life, decreed by the infinitely wise and good provi-
dence of God; that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereignty, who had an undoubted right to go-
vern and dispose of his creatures as he thinks conve-
nient; and that his justice and mercy could either
punish or deliver me: I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust sincere-
ly in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly resign
myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou /halt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
cheerfully from my bed, I offered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner; and when I had done, tak-
ing up my Bible to read, these words appeared first
in my fight: Wait on the Lord', and be of good cheer,
and he sJjall strengthen thy heart; wait, I fay, on the
Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, 33 to-
remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and nights, at last I ventured out of
my castle, and milked my goats, one of which was
almost spoiled for' want of it. I next, though in-'
great fear, visited my. bower, and milked my slocks
there also; when growing bolder, I went down to -
the shore again, and measuring the print of the foot
to mine, to see whether, perhaps, I myself had not
occasioned that mark, I found it much superior in
largeness ; and so I returned home possessed with the;
notion, that either some men had been ashore, or
that the island must be inhabited; and therefore, that
I might be surprised before I was aware.
Struck with a second and more terrible sear, seve-
ral thoughts of security came into my mind ; and that
night I was first proposing to cut down my inclo-
sures, wid turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent,
the island in hopes of the fame. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn fields, for the very fame reason
and lastly, I concluded to demolish my bower, lest
seeing such a place of human contrivance, they might
come farther and attack me in my little castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger' suggest unto.
me; and I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate
King Saul, when not only, oppressed by the Philis-
tines, but also forsaken by God himself; and it i9.
strange, that a little before having entirely resigned
, myself to the will of God, I should now have so lit-
tle confidence in him, fearing those more who might
kill this fading body, than him who could destroy my
immortal foul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
pose the next morning; and then, joining reason
with my fear, I considered, that this delightful and
pleasant island might not be entirely forsaken, as I
might think; or that the inhabitants from the other
shore might sail either with design or necessity by
cross winds ; and if the latter circumstance, they de-
parted upon the first opportunity. But still my sear
occasioned me to think of a place for retreat, upon
an attack. I now repented that I had made the door
that came out beyond my fortification ; but resolving
to make me a second, 1 drove between that double
row of trees, which I planted about 12 years before,
several piles, thickening it with pieces of timber and
old cables, and strengthening the foot of it with
earth which I dug out of my cave. 1 also made me
seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets like can-
non, fitting them into frames resembling carriages.
This being finished with indefatigable industry, for
a great way every way I planted sticks of osier-like
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving a
large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and that they might not
'be sheltered by the young trees, if they offered to
approach the outer wall. And indeed scarce two
years had passed over my heac^, when there appeared
a lovely shady grove, and in six years it became a
thick wood perfectly impassable. For my safety, I
left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which I
set two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, leaving room to place ano-
ther ladder upon that; so that when I took those
down, it was impossible for any man to descend with-
out hurting himself; and if they had, they would
still be at the outside of my outer wall. But while I
took all these measures of human prudence for my
own preservation, I was not altogether unmindful of
affairs: To preserve my stocks of tame goats, that
the enemy should not take all at once, I looked out
for the most retired part of the island, which was the
place where I had lost myself before-mentioned, and
there finding a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick woods, I worked so
hard, that in less than a month's time I fenced it so
well round, that my flocks were very well secured
in it, putting therein two he-goats and two she ones.
As this labour was occasioned purely by my fear-
ful apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of
a man's foot; not contented with what I had done,
I searched for another place towards the west point
of the island, where I might also retain another flock.
Then methought I perceived a boat at a great distance
in the sea, but could not possibly tell what it was for
want of my perspective glass. I considered then it
was no strange thing to see the print of a man's foot;
and concluding them cannibals, blessed God for my
being cast on the other side of the island, where none
of the savages, as I thought, ever came. But when I
came down the hill to the shore, which was the S. W.
point of the island, 1 was not only amazed, but per-
fectly confirmed in my opinion; for the place was
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and bones of human
bodies; and then I perceived a space like a circle, in
the midst of which had been a fire; about this fire
I conjectured these wretches fat, and unnaturally sa-
crificed and devoured their fellow-creatuies.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful
spectacle both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge the violent disorder from my stomach. So
that when I had vomited in a very excessive manner,
I returned towards my habitation, and in my way
thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
fo long out of their hands.
Now though reason and my long residence here
had assured me, that these savages never came up to-
D 6
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the thick woody parts of the country ; and that I had
no occasion to discover myself, who was so perfectly
concealed from them; yet such an abhorrence did I
still retain, that for two years after I confined myself
only to my three plantations; I mean my castle,
country feat, and inclosure in the woods. And when
in this solitary life, my dreadful apprehensions began
to weir away, yet my eyes were more vigilant for
fear of being surprised, and I was cautious of firhig
my gun, lest being heard by those creatures, they
should proceed to attack me; but resolving manfully
to lose my life if they did, I went armed with three
pistols stuck in my'girdle, which, added to the de-
scription I have jziven of myself before, made me
look with a very formidable appearance.
And thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed. When I com-
pared my condition to others, I found it far from
being miserable: And indeed would all persons com-
pare their circumstances, not with those above them,
but with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, I am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
rntirings and complainings that are in the world. For
my part, I did not want many things: Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in spoiled some
inventions for my own conveniencies ; one of which
was really very ridiculous, except I could accomplish
it, and happy it was 'hey hindered me from putting
it in practice. My design was to brew me some beer,
when I had neither caiks sussicient, nor could make
any, to preserve it in ; neither had I hops to make it
keep, yeast to make it work, nor a copper or kettle
to make it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years,
I might bring this to bear, as I had done other things i
But now my inventions were placed another way;
and one was, how I might destroy some of these can-
nibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertain-
ments; and so sating a victim from being sacrificed,
he might aster become my servant. Many were my
contrivances for this purpose, and as many more ob-
jections occurred after I hatched them; for when I
contrived to dig a hole under th* pi ice where they
made their sire, and put therein five or six pounds of
gunpowder, -which would consequently blow up all
those that were near it; why then I was loth to spend
so much upon them, lest it should not do that certain
execution I could desire; and but only asfright, and
not kill them. Having laid this design aside, I pro-
posed to myself to lie privately in ambush, in some
convenient place, with my three guns double loaded,
and let fly at them in the midst of their dreadful ce-
remony; and having killed two or three of them at
every shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my, three
pistols, and not let one mother's son escape; and so
much did this imagination please my fancy, that I used
to dream of it in the night-time. To put my design
in execution, I was not long seeking for a pi ice very
convenient for my purpose, where, unseen, I might
behold every action of the savages. Here I placed my
two muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace
of slugs, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol-bullets ; the fowling-piece was charged
with near a handful of the largest swan-shot; and in
every pistol were about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner would the wel-
come light spread over the element, but, like a giant
refreslied with wine, as the Scripture has it, would I
iflue forth from my castle, and, from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, view if I could fee any invaders ap-
proach unlawfully to my kingdom. But having wait-
ed in vain two or three months, it not only grew
very tiresome to me, but brought me into some con-
sideration, and made me examine myself, what right
I had to kill these creatures in this manner?
If (argued I to myself) this unnatural custom of
theirs be a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs to the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands, to shower down vengeance upon them;
and perhaps he does so, in making them become one
another's executioners: Or if not, if God thinks these
doings just, according to the knowledge which they
conceive, wl;at authority have I to pretend to alter the
decrees of Providence, which has permitted these ac-
tions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the be-
ginning of the creation? They never offended me,
what right have I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's bleed? And, as I have since
known, they value no more to kill and devour a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat
rhutton. From hence it followed, that these people
were no more murderers than Christians, who many
times put whole troops to the sword, after throwing
down their arms. Again I considered, that if 1 fell
upon them, I should be as much in the wrong as the
Spaniards, who had committed the greatest barbari-
ties upon these people, who had never offended them
in their whole lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was
eminent for a race of men without common compas-
sion to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a prin-
pal sign of tjie most generous temper. In a word, I
concluded never to attack them, whose numbers
might overpower me; or that some escaping, might
bring thousands to my certain destruction; nor so
much as to show myself, which might oblige me eveit
to a necessary duty of defence. And indeed religion
took their part so much as to convince me how con-
trary it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding hu-
man blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever
they are to one another; and that I had nothing to
do with it, but leave it to the God of all power and
dominion, as I said before, to do therein what seem-
ed convenient to his heavenly wisdom. And there-
fore on my knees, I thanked the Almighty for deli-
vering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged his pro--
tection that I might never fail into their hands..
*7
Thus, giving over an attempt which I had rashly
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion af-
terwards; only I removed my boat which lay on the
other side of the island, and every thing such as they
were that belonged to her, towards the east, into a
little cove, that there might not be the least shadow
of discovery of any boat near, or habitation upon the
island. And then my castle became my cell, keeping
very retired in it, except to milk my she-goats, and
order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure it is, these savages never
came here with expectations to find any thing, and
consequently never wandered from the coast; and as
they might have several times been on shore, as well
before as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what a state I might
have been, had I suddenly met them slenderly armed,
with one gun only loaded with small shot ; and how
great would have been , my amazement, if, instead
of seeing the print of one man's foot, I had perceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, have
left me no possibility of escaping. These thoughts
would sink my very foul within me, so that I would
fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as the con-
sideration of my gratitude to the Divine Being mov-
ed it from my heart: And then I fell into a contem-
plation of the secret springs of Providence; how
wonderfully we are delivered, when we are insensible
of it ; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or la-
byrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint shall
direct us in the right way, when we intend to go out
of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our business, fense,
or inclination. Upon which, I fixed within me this-
as a certain rule, never to disobey those secret im-
pressions of my mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that osfered, for which I yet could assign no
reason. But let it be how it will, the advantage of this
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
conduct very eminently appeared in theJatter part
of my abode on this island. I am a stranger in deter-
mining whence these secret intimations of Providence
derive; yet, methinks, they are not only some proofs of
the converse of spirits, but also of the secret commu-
nications they are supposed to have with those that
have not pasted through the gloomy vale of death.
As in these many anxieties of mind, the care of
my preservation put a period to all inventions and
contrivances, either for fpture accommodations or
conveniencies; so I never cared to drive a nail, chop
a stick, sire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise
should be heard, or the smoke discover me; and,
upon this account, I used to burn my earthen ware
privately in a cave which I found in the wood, and
which I made convenient for that purpose; but the
principal cause that first brought me here was to
make charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my
bread and meat, without any danger. While I was
cutting down some wood for this purpose, I perceiv-
ed a cavity behind a very thick branch of under-
wood. Curious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sussicient for me to stand upright in
it; but when I had entered and took a further view,
two rolling shining eyes, like slaming stars, seemed
to dart themselves at me, so that I made all the haste
out that I could, as not knowing whether it was the
Devil or a monster that had taken his residence in
that place. But when I recovered from my surprise,
1 called myself a thousand fools, for being afraid to-
fee the Devil one moment, who had now lived al-
most twenty years in the most retired solitude;
and therefore, resuming all the courage I had, I
took up a flaming firebrand, and in I rushed again;
when not having proceeded above three steps, I
was more asfrighted than before; for then I heard
a very loud sigh, like that of a human creature in
the greatest agony, succeeded with a broken noise*
89
resembling words half expressed, and then a broken
sigh again. Stepping back, Lord ! (thought I to my-
self) where am I got? Into what enchanted place
have I plunged myself, such as are reported to con-
tain miserable captives, till death puts an end to their
sorrow? And indeed such a great amazement was I
in, that it struck me with a cold sweat; and had my
hat been on my head, I believe my hair would have
moved it off. But again, encouraging myself with
the hopes of God's protection, I proceeded forward,
and, by the light of my firebrand, perceived it to be
a monstrous he-goat, lying on the ground gasping
for life, and dying of mere old age. When at first I
stirred him, thinking to drive him out, the poor an-
cient creature strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able; so 1 even let him lie still, to affright the sa-
vages, should they venture into this cave. In the
mean time I looked round me, and found the place
but small and shapeless; at the further fide of it I
perceived a fort of an entrance, yet so low as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it;
when, having no candle, I suspended my enterprise
till the next day,; and then I came provided with six
large ones of my own making.
When upon my hands and feet I had creeped through
the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I think,
about twenty feet; but surely mortal never saw such
a glorious fight in this island before! The roof and
walls of this cave reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles, as though they were
indented in with shining gold, precious stones, or
sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightful cavity or grotto, of its kind, that could be
desired, though entirely dark: The floor was dry
and level, and had a kind of gravel upon it; no
nauseous venomous creature to be seen there, nei-
ther any damp or wet about it: I could find no
fault but in the entrance, which I thought might be
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
very necessary for my defence, and therefore was re-
solved to make this place my most principal maga-
zine. I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, plant-
ed in the nature of cannon. In a barrel of gun-
powder, which I took out of the sea, I brought a-
way about sixty pounds of good powder, which was
not damaged; and these, with a great quantity of
lead for bullets, I removed from my castle to this re-
treat, now fortified both by art and nature.
Surely it is no wonder, if at this time I thought
myself like one of the giants of old, who were said to
live in caves and holes among the rocks, inaccessible
to any but themselves, or, at least, most dangerous to
attempt; so that now I despised both the cunning
and strength of the savages, either to find me out or
to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused my
late dreadful amazement: The poor creature gave
up the ghost the day after my discovery; and it
being difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably entombed him in the fame place where
he departed, with as much ceremony, as any Welsh
goat has been interred about the high mountain Pen-
menmoure.
I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and much easier were my thoughts than for-
merly, contriving several pretty amusements and di.
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speakEng-
Jish, and pronounce his words very articulately and
piain, so that for many hours we used to chat toge-
ther after a very familiar manner, and he lived with
me no less than twenty-six years : My dog, who was
nineteen years old, sixteen years of which he lived
with me, died of mere old age: As for my cats,
they multiplied so fast that 1 was forced to kill or
d;ive them into the woods, except two or three*
which became my particular favourites. Besides
these, I continually kept two or three household kids
about me, which I did learn to feed out of my
hand, and two more parrots which would talk indif-
ferently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excel-
lent as the first, as not taking that pains with them.
Several sea fowls I had also, which having wounded,
I cut their wing, and growing tame, they used to
breed among the low trees about my castle walls; all
which were very agreeable to me.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them,! It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a slaming light, about two miles from
me at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
served some savages had been, as before, but not on
the other side; but to my areat affliction, it was on
my side of the island. ''
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly I could. In the next
place I put myself in a posture of defence, by loading
my muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, resolving to defend myself till my
latest breath. After two hours space, impatient for
intelligence, I set my lavlder up to the side of the;
hill where there was a slat place, and then pulling
the ladder after me, ascended the top, where, laying
-myself on my belly, with my perspective glals I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes haled upon snore, wait.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ing for the flood to carry them off" again. You can-
not easily express the consternation I was in at this
fight,especially seeing them near me; but when I per-
ceived their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts, be-
ing very fully convinced that I might go abroad with
security all the time of flood, if they were not before
landed. And indeed this proved just as I imagined;
for no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle away,
but the tide made north-west. Before they went
off they danced, making ridiculous postures and
gestures, for above an hour, all stark naked, but
whether men or women, or both, I could not per-
ceive. When I saw them gone I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword hanging by my side, I
went to the hill where at first I made a discovery
of these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which, with the rest, were making over to the main
land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies, appeared in
my sight; and so, fired with indignation, I was fully
resolved to be revenged of the first that came there,
though I lost my life in the execution. It then ap-
peared to me that the visits which they made to this
iflmd were not very frequent, it being fifteen months
before they came again ; all this time I was very un-
i easy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions I had of
their surprising me unawares; nor dared I offer to fire
a gun on that side of the island where they used
to appear, lest taking the alarm, the favages might
return with many hundred canoes, and then God
knows in what manner I should have made my end:
And thus I was a year or more before I ever saw any
. of these devouring cannibals again.
93
But to wave this, the following accident, which
demands attention, for a while eluded the force
of my thoughts in revenging myself on those hea-
thens.
It was the j 6th of May (according to my wooden
kalendar) that the wind blew exceeding hard, accom-
panied with abundance of lightning and thunder all
that day, and succeeded by a very stormy night.
What occasioned this I could not imagine; but as
the seeming anger of the heavens made me have re-
course to the Bible, whilst I was seriously pondering
upon it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a
gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprise made me start up in a mi-
nute, when, with my ladder, ascending die moun-
tain as before, that very moment a slash,of fire pre-
saged the leport os another gun, which, I presently
heard, and found it was from that part of the sea
where the current drove me away. I could not then
think otherwise but that this m,ust he a.ship in dis-
tress, and that these were the melancholy signals tor
a speedy deliverance. Indeed, great was my sorrow
upon this occasion, but altogether vain and fruitless.
However, I brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and making a handsome pile -set it on
fire on the hill. Certain it. was, that they plainly
perceived it by their firing another gun as loon as
it began to blaze, and after that several more from the
same quarter. All the night long did I keep up this
fire ; and when the air cleared up I perceived some-
thing a great way at,sea directly east, but could not
distinguilh what it was, even with my glass, by rea-
son the weather was so very foggy out at sea. How-
ever, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and per-
ceiving it not to stir, 1 presently concluded it must be
a ship at anchor; and so very hasty I was to be sa-
tisfied, that, taking my gun, I went to the south-east
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
part of the island, to the same rocks where I had beeri
formerly drove away by the current; in which time
the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow I perceived the wreck of a ship cast away
upon these hidden rocks, which I found when I was
out with my boat, and which, by making a kind of
an eddy, were the occasion of my preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's ruin;
for undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at E. N. E.
Now, had they perceived the isknd, as I could not
imagine they did, certainly, instead of firing their
guns for help, they might rather have ventured in
their boat, and saved themselves that way. Then I
thought that perhaps they had done so upon seeing
my fire, and were cast away in the attempt; for I
perceived no boat in the ship. Again, I imagined,
that perhaps they had another vessel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
boat up. Or, lastly, that the boat might be driven
into the main ocean, where these poor creatures
might be in the most miserable condition. But as all
these conjectures were very uncertain, I could do no
more than commiserate their distress, and thank God
for delivering me in particular, when so many perish-
ed in the raging ocean.
When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, I could perceive no room to suppose
any of them faved: I cannot explain, by any possible
force os words, what longings my foul felt upon this
fight, often breaking out in this manner: Oh! that
there had been but two or three, nay, even one person
faved, that we might have lived together, conversed
with and comforted one another ! And so much were
my desires moved, that when I repeated these words,
Oh! that there had been hit'one! my hands would
so clench together, and. my fingers press the prjms of
my hands so close, that had any soft thing been be-
2
tween, they would have crushed it involuntarily,
while my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
Till the last year of my being in this island, I ne-
ver knew if any had been saved out of this ship or
not, and had only the affliction some time after to
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck:
There was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
s pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of; in his pocket were two pieces of
eight and a tobacco-pipe, the last of which I pre-
ferred much more than I did the first. And now the
calmness of the sea tempted me to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not only to get something neces-
sary out of the ship, but perhaps some living creature
'might be on board whose life I might preserve. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that imme-
diately I went home and prepared every thing neces-'
sary for the voyage, carrying on board my boat pro-
visions of all sorts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh
water, and a compass. So putting off, I paddled the
canoe along the shore till I came at last to the N. E.
part of the island, from whence I was to launch into
the ocean; but here the currents run so violently,
and appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me, foreseeing that if I was driven into any of these
currents, I might be carried not only out of the
reach or tight of the island, but even inevitably lost
in the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that t gave
over mv enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where stepping out, I sat me down on a rising
hill, very pensive and thoughtful. I then perceived
that the tide was turned,and the flood came on, which
made it impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours. To be more certain how the sets of the
tides or currents lay when the flood came in, I as-
cended a higher piece of ground, which overlooked
the sea both ways; and here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point
of the island, so the current of the flood set in close
by the shore os the north fide, and all that I had to
do was to keep to the north of the island in my
return.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead of a blanket, the hea-
vens being my tester. I set out with the first of the
tide full north, till I felt the benefit of the current,
which carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not
with such impetuosity a6 before, as to take from me
all government of my canoe; so that in two hours
time I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
in a most melancholy manner. It seemed to be a
Spanish vessel by its buildings, stuck fast between two
rocks; her stern and quarters beaten to pieces with
the sea, her mainmast and foremost were brought
off by the board, as much as to fay, broken short
off. As I approached nearer, I perceived a dog on
board, who perceiving me coming yelped and cried,
and no sooner did I call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of which I took him al-
most famished with hunger and thirst ; so that when
I gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wojf could
devour it more greedily, and he drank to that de-
gree of fresh water that he would have burst himself
had I suffered him. ,
The first sight I met with in the ship were two
men drowned in the cook-room or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: Hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
!
1
:
'Waves. There were several casks of liquor, whe-
ther wine or brandy I could not be positive, which
lay in the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by
the ebbing out of the water, yet were too large for
me to pretend to meddle with: Likewise I perceived
several chests, which I thought might belong to the
seamen; two of them I got into my boat, without
examining what were in them. Now, had the stern
of the ship been fixed, and the fore-part broker*
off", certain I am I should have made a very pros-
perous voyage; since by what I after found in these
two chests, I could not otherwise conclude but' that
the ship must have abundance of wealth on board:
Nay, if I must guess by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the
Rio de la Plata, in the southern part of America, be-
yond the Brasils, to the Havannah, in the Gulph of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. What became of
the rest of her sailors, I could not certainly tell; and
all her riches signified nothing at that time to any-
body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons, full of liquor, which with some la-
bour I got into my boat: In a cabin were several
muskets, which 1 let remain there, but took away
with me a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it; I took also a fire-shovel and tongs»
two brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a gridiron, all which were extremely necessary
to me, especially the fire-shovel and tongs. And
so with this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I came
away, the tide serving for that purpose; and the
same evening, about an hour within night, I attain-
ed the island, after the greatest toil and fatigue ima-
ginable.
That night I reposed my wearied limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to harbour what I
had gotten in my new found subterraneous grotto»
and not carry my cargo home to my ancient castle.
When I had refreshed myself, and got all my effects
on shore, I proceeded to examine the particulars:
And so tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at the Brasils,
nor indeed near so good. At the opening of the
chest, several things appeared very useful to me; for
instance, I found in one a very sine case of bottles,
containing the finest and best forts of cordial waters:
Each bottle held about three pints, curiously tipped
with silver. I found also two pots full-of the choicest
sweetmeats, and two more which the water had ut-
terly spoiled. There were likewise several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of linen white handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths, the former of which were absolutely ne-
cessary for wiping my face in a hot day; and in the
till, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about
eleven hundred in all; in one of which, decently
wrapped up in a piece of pape-, were six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars and wedges of the fame
metal, which, I believe, might weigh near a pound.
In the other chest, which 1 guessed to belong to the
gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that at-
tended: it, I only found some clothes of very little
value, except about two pounds of fine glazed pow-
der, in three slasks, kept, as I believe, for charging
their fowling-pieces on any-occasion. So that, on
the whole, I had no great advantage by this voyage.
The money indeed was as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable, all which I would have freely parted
with for two or three English pair of shoes and stock-
ings; things that for many years I had not worn,
except -lately those which I had taken off the feet of
those unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not so good as English shoes, either for ease or
service: And having found in the seamens chests
about fifty pieces of eight in rials, but no gold, I
suppose what I took from the first belonged to an
ossicer, to whom this seemed to have a much inferior
person for its owner. Well, the money, as despicable
as it seemed, I likewise lugged to my cave, laying
it up securely as I did the rest of my cargo. After I
had done all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing
or paddling her along till I came to my oM harbour,
where I carefully laid her up, and so made the best
of my way to my castle. When I arrived there, every
thing seemed quiet and safe; so that now my only
business was to repose myself after my wonted man-
ner, and take care of my domestic asfairs. But
though I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful, yet still I was more vigi-
lant than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did, it was to the east part of
the island, where I was well assured that the savages
never came, and where I might not be troubled to
Carry that heavy load of weapons for my defence,
as I was obliged to do if I went the other way.
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
ajl which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was rilled with nothing but projects and de-
signs how I might escape from this island: And so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-
bling disposition, that had I the same boat I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured once more to
the uncertainty of the raging ocean. ,
But certainly I was an unhappy instance of that
part of mankind, who make themselves wretched by
their dissatisfaction with the station which Gad has
placed them in: for, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition, and my father's excellent advice,
the contrary to which was, as I may fay, my ml-
ginal sin, my following mistakes of the fame nature
had been the means of my present unhappy station.
What business had I to leave a settled fortune, and
W-ell-stocked plantation, improving and increasing,
where by this time I might have been- worth a hun--
dred thousand moidores, to turn supercargo to
Guinea, to fetch negroes, when time and patience
would have so much enlarged qur slock at home, as
to be able to employ those whose more immediate
business it was to fetch them home, even to our
ndoors?
But as this is commonly the fate of young
heads, so a serious reflection upon the folly of it
ordinarily attends the exercise of future years, when
the dear-bought experience of time is so much re-
pented of. Thus it was with me at thai season; but
notwithstanding what I had, or might suffar upon
these occasions, the thoughts of my deliverance
ran so strongly in my mind, as seemed to check all
the dictates of my poor reason and philosophy. And
now, to usher my kind reader with greater pleasure
to the remaining part of my relations, I slatter my-
self it will not be taken amiss to give him an account
of my first conceptions on the manner of escaping,
and upon what foundation I laid out my foolish
schemes.-
I must now suppose myself retired to my castle
after my late voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up
and secured, as usual, and my condition in the
same manner as before, except being richer, though I
had as little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came among
them. One night in March, being the rainy season,
in the sour-and-twentieth year of this my solitude, I
was lying on my bed awake, very well in health, with-
out distemper, pain, or uncommon uneasiness, either
of body or mind; yet for all this I could not com-
pose myself to sleep the night long. All this tedious
while it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head : I traced quite over the
whole history of my life in miniature, from my ut-
most remembrance of things till I came to this island;
and then proceeded to examine every action and pas-
sage that had occurred since I had taken possession
of my kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter
I was comparing my happy posture of affairs in the
beginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear,
and concern, since I 'discovered the print of a foot
in the sand; that while I continued free without no-
tions, I was capable of forming any dreadful appre-
hensions; though I ought rather to be thankful for
the knowledge of my danger, since then it was the
greatest happiness to have sussicient time to provide
against it. How stupendous is the goodness of Pro-
vidence, which set such narrow bounds to the fight
and knowledge of human nature, that while men
walk in the midst of so many dangers, they are kept
serene and calm, by having the event of things hid
from their eyes, and-knowing nothing at all-of those
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps they
are dissipated and vanished quite away!
When I came more particularly to consider of tlie
real danger I had for so many years escaped; how
I had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quillity at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had only interposed between me and
the destructive hands of the cannibals, who wouM
devour me with as good an appetite as I Would a pi-
geon or curleu: Surely all this, I fay, could not but
make me sincerely thankful to my great Preserver,
whose singular protection I acknowledged with the
greatest humility, and without which I must inevi-
tably have fallen into the cruel hands of these devour-
ers.
Thus having discussed these thoughts in the clear-
est manner, according to my weak understanding, 1
next proceeded to consider the wretched nature of
these destroying savages, by seeming, though with
.great reverence, to inquire why God should give up
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
any of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to bru-
tality itself, to devour its own kind? But as this was
rather matter of abstruse speculation, it better became
me to inquire, what part of the world these wretches
Jived in; how far off the coast was from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home;
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
I could not order myself and my business so, that I
might be as able to attain their country, as they were
to come to my kingdom?
Never had I the least thoughts how I should ma-
'D9ge myself when I came thither; what would become
os me if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how
I should escape from them if they made an attempt
upon me. And supposing I should fall into their
power, what could I do {or provision, or which way
should I bend my course? Now, though these things
did express the greatest horror and confusion imagin-
able, yet still I looked upon my present condition the
most miserable that possibly could be, and that nothing
xould be worse except death. For (thought I) could
I but attain the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with some reliefi or coast it along, as 1 did with
my boy Xury on the African shore, 'till I came to
some inhabited country, where I might meet with
some relief, or fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if I failed, why then I couid
but meet with death, which would put an end to all
my miseries. But yet I must here note, that all this
was the fruit of a distempered mind, an impatient
temper, made desperate, as it were, by long conti-
nuance of the troubles and the disappointments I had
met with in the wreck, where I hoped to have found
some living person to speak to, by whom I might have
'known in what place I was, and of the probable m;ans
of my deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were a-
gitated, my resignation to the will of Heaven was en-
tirely suspended; so that I had no power to fix my
}
mind to any thing but the project os a voyage to the
main. And indeed so much was I inflamed upon this
account, that it set my blood into a ferment, and my
pulse beat high as though I had been in a fever; till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it, made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
Certainly it is very strange that I did not dream of
what I was so intent upon; but instead of which,
my mind roved on a quite different thing, altogether
foreign to it., I dreamed, that as I was issuing from
my castle one morning, as customary, I perceived up-
on the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming
to land, who had brought with them another Indian,
whom they designed to make a sacrifice of, in order
to devour; but just as they were going to give the fa-
tal blow, methought the poor designed victim jump-
ed away, and ran directly into a little thick grove be-
fore my fortification, to abscond from his enemies;
when perceiving that the others did not follow hirn,
that way, I appeared to him; that he humbly kneel-
ed down before me, seeming to pray for my assist-
ance; upon which 1 showed him my ladder, made
him ascend, carried him to my cave, and he became
my servant; and when I had gotten this man, 1 said
to myself, now surely I may have some hopes to at-
tain the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, tell me what to do, and where I must go for
provisions; what places to shun, what to venture to,
and what to escape. But when I awaked, and found all
these inexpressible impressions of joy entirelyvanished,
1 fell into the greatest dejection of spirits imaginable.
Yet after all, I made this conclusion, that my only
way of escaping was to get a savage; and after I had
ventured my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural fense he might have of
such a preservation might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
E4
objection reasonably interposed, how can I effect this
(thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of them*
and kill them all? Why should I proceed on such a
desperate attempt, which before my scruples had sug-
gested to me were unlawful, and made my heart
tremble at the thoughts of so much blood, though it
were a means to procure my deliverance! And though
I might, according to my reason, suppose that these
men were the real enemies to my life, and would de-
vour me, was it in their power, so that it was self-
preservation in the highest degree to free myself from
this dread of life, by acting in -my own defence, as
if they were actual! yv assaulting me; though all these
things, I fay, seemed to me to be of the greatest
weight, yet, as I just said before, the dreadful
thoughts of shedding human blood, struck such a
terror to my soul, that it was a long time before I
could reconcile myself.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
On? For, notwithstanding the many disputes and per-
plexities I had with myself about it, right or wrong,
I was resolved to get one of these savages into my
hands, let it cost what it would, or lose my life in
she attempt. Thus inspired with a firm resolution,
all my wits were at work, in the next place, to find
Out what methods I should take to answer my design;
and this indeed was very dissicult to resolve on. Since
then I could not pitch upon any probable means for
it, I resolved continually to be in a vigilant posture,
to perceive when the savages came on shore, and so
leave the rest to the event, let the opportunities of-
fer as they would.
Such was my fixed resolution, and accordingly I
set myself upon the scout as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartily tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
iimel went out to the west end,and south-west corner
of the island almost every day to seek for canoes, but
none appeared. This was a very great discouragement,
at which I was very much concerned; yet never did
this wear osf the edge of my desire to the things,
but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: In a word, I was never at first so careful
to shun the loathed sight of these savages,asl was now
eager to be upon them. Besides, I thought myself
'suffkteritly able to manage one, two, or three savages,
if I had them, so as to make them my entire slaves,
to do whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent
their being able at any time of doing me a mischief.
Many a time did I use to please myself with this af-
fair, Avith song and ardent expectations;, but nothing
yet presented; all my deep projected schemes and nu-
'merous fancies vanished away, as though while I re-
tained those thoughts, the decree of Providence was
such that no savages were to come near me.
It was about a year and a half, that as I was most
seriously musing of 'sundry ways how I should attain
my end, one morning early I was very much surprised
~by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore toge*
ther on my fide the island, and the creatures that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight. Such
a number of them disconcerted all my measures; for
seeing so many boats, each of which would contain
six, and sometimes more, I could not tell, what to
think of it, or how to order my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed: Upon which,
much discomforted and perplexed, I lay still in my
castle; however I put myself in the same posture for
an lattnck that I had formerly provided against, and
'was ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. But when I had waited a long while, till
'such time as my impatient temper would let me bear'
it no longer, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and,'as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at
<two 'stages; however, standing that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that by any means they could;
ES, >
not perceive me; and here 1 observed, by the assist-
ance of my perspective glass, no less than thirty in
number around a sire, feasting upon what meat they
had dressed: How they cooked it, or what it was, I
could not then perfectly tell; but they were all dan-
cing and capering about the slames, using many fright-
ful and barbarous gestures.
But while with a curious eye I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits funk within me, when I per-
ceived them drag two mifcr-able creatures from the
boats to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I supposed,
they had done before. It was not long before one of
them fell upon the ground, knocked down, as I sup-
posed with a club, or wooden sword; for that was
their manner, while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their cookery,
and then fell to devour him as they had done the for-
„ mer, while the last unhappy captive was left by him-
self till such time as they were ready for him. The
poor creature looked round him with a wishful eye,
trembling at the thoughts of death, yet seeing him-
self a little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it
were, inspired"him with hopes of life, that he started
away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands directly to that part of the coast where
my ancient and venerable castle stood.
You may imagine I was dreadfully affrighted upon
this occasion, when, as I thought, they pursued him
in a whole body, all running towards my palace. And
now indeed I expected that part of my dream was
going to be fulfilled, and that he would certainly sly
to my grove for protection; but for the rest of my
dream I could depend nothing on it, that the savages
would pursue him thither and find him there. How-
ever, my spirits beginning to recover, I still kept upon
my guard, when I plainly perceived there were but,
three men out of the number that pursued him;
and I was insinitely pleased with what swiftness the
poor creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground of them, that I plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it for half an hour, there was not the least
doubt but he would save his life from the power of
his enemies.
Between them and my castle there was a creek, that
very fame where I sailed into with all my esfects from
the wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I
very much seared the poor victim would be taken, if
he could not swim for his escape ; but soon was I out
of pain for him when he made nothing of it though
at full tide, but with an intrepid courage, spurred
on by the fense of danger, he plunged into the flood,
swimming over in about thirty strokes, and then land-
ing, ran with the fame wonderful strength and swift-
ness as before. When the three pursuers came to
the creek, one of them, whom I perceived could'
not swim, happily for his part, returned back to his
company; while the others with as equal courage,
but much less swiftness, attained the other side, as
though they were resolved never to give over their
pursuit. And now, or never, I thought was the time
for me to procure a servant, companion, or assistant;
and that I was deereed by Providence to be the instru-
ment that should save this poor creature's life. I im-
mediately descended my two ladders with the greatest
expedition, I took up my two guns, which I said be-
fore were at the bottom of them; and getting up again
with the same haste towards the hill, I made nearer the
sea: In a word, taking a short cut down the hill, I in-
terposed between the pursuers and the pursued, hal-
lowing aloud to the latter, who venturing to look back,
was no doubt at first as much terrified at me as them.
I beckoned to him with my hand to return back, in
the mean time slowly advancing towards the pursuers;
when suddenly rushing on the foremost, I knocked
kirn down with the stock of my piece, and laid him
Ed
slat on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire, lest
the rest should hear, though at that distance I que-
stion whether they could or not; and being out of
sight of the smoke, they could not easily have known
what to make of it. The other savage seeing his
fellow fall, stopped as if he had been amazed, when
advancing towards him, 1 could perceive him take
his bow from his back, arid fixing an arrow to it, was
preparing to flioot at mt, and witTiout dispute might
have lodged the arrow in my breast, had 1 given him
leave; but in this absolutely necessary cause of self-
preservation, I immediately fired at him, and shot
him dead, just as his hand was going to draw the
fatal string. All this while the savage who had fled
before, stood still, had the satisfaction to fee his ene-
mies fall, or killed, as he thought, who designed to
take away his life: So affrighted was he with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood as it were like
Lot's wife, fixed and immoveable, without fense, and
without motion. This made me hallow to him again,
making the plainest signs I could to him to draw near-
er : I perceived he understood these tokens, by his ap-
proaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid I
should kill him too, he stopped again. Several times
did he advance, and as often stopped in this manner,
till coming more to my view, I perceived him trem-
bling, as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon
which I looked upon him with a smiling countenance,
and still beckoning to him, at length he came close to
me, kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking me by my foot, set the fame upon
his head; and this, as 1 understood afterwards, was-
a token of swearing to be my Have for ever. I took
him up, and making very much of him, encouraged
him in the best manner I could. But here my work
was not yet finished; for I perceived the savage whom
1 knocked down was not killed, but stunned with
Uie blow, and began to come to himself. Upon which-
I pointed to my new servant, and showing him that
his enemy was not yet expired, he spoke some words
to me, but what I could not understand; yet being
the first sound of a man's voice I had heard for above
these twenty-five years, they were very pleasing to me.
But there was no time for reflection now, the wound-
ed savage recovering himself so far as to sit upon the
ground, which made my poor prisoner as much afraid
as before; to put him out of which fear I presented
my other gun at tbe man, with an intent to shoot
him; but my savage, for so I must now call him, pre-
vented my firing, by making a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side. No sooner did I grant his request, but away
he runs to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his
head> as dexterously as the most accomplished execu-
tioner in Germany could have done; for it seems these
creatures make use of wooden swords, made of hard
wood, which will bear an edge, enough to cut off
heads and arms at one blow. When this valorous
exploit was done, he came to me laughing, as a token
of triumph, delivered me my sword again with abun-
dance of surprising gestures, laying it along with the
bleeding and ghaiViy head of the Indian at my feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived was the manner of killing the savage at such
a distance without a bow and arrow; and such was
liis longing desire to know it, that he first pointed to
the dead creature, and then made signs to me to grant
him leave to go to him. Upon which I bid him go,
and as well as I could made him sensible I granted his
request. But when he came there, how wonderfully
was he stricken with amazement! First he turned him
on one side, then on another, wondering he could
perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding inwardly;
and after sussiciently admiring the wound the bullet
had made in his breast, he took up his bow and ar-
ROBINSON CRUSOE:
tows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, less
t
the rest missing their companions, might come in
pursuit of him. And this 1 found he understood very
well, by his making me understand that his design
was to bury them, that they might not be seen if it
happened; and which by signs again I made him
sensible I very much approved of. Immediately he
fell to work, and never was a grave-digger more dex-
terous in the world than he was; for in au instant,
as I might fay, he scraped a large hole in the sand
with his hands sussicient to bury the first in, there
he dragged him, and without any ceremony covered
him over. In like manner he served the other: So
that I am sure no undertaker could be more expert
in his business, for all this was done-in less than a
quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and
instead of carrying him directly to my castle at first,
I conveyed him to my cave on the further part of
the island: And so my dream was not fulfilled in
that particular, that my grove should prove an asy-
lum or sanctuary to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of
joy that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave
him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water
to drink, of which feeding very cheerfully, to his
exceeding refreshment, I made him a convenient bed
with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes) and then point-
ing to him made signs for him to lie down to sleep,
upon which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very handsome comely young fel-
low, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large ; tall, and well shaped; and, as I could
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His coun-
Ill
tenance had nothing in it fierce and surly, but rather
a sort of majesty in his face-, and yet, especially when
he smiled, he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European. His hair was not curled like wool, as
many of the blacks are, but long and black, with the
most beautiful, yet careless tresses spreading over his
shoulders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as the Virginians,
Brasilians, or other Americans, but rather of a bright
dun olive colour, that had something agreeable in it,
though not very easy to give a description of. His face
was round and plump, with a small nose, very dif- ',
ferent from the slatness of the'negroes, a pretty fmaH
mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well set, and white
as the driven snow. In a word, such handsome
features, and exact symmetry in every part made
me consider that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no less graceful and accomplished than the
great Oroonoko, whose memorable behaviour, and
unhappy contingencies of life has charmed the world,
both to admiration of his person, and compassion to
his susferings.' ,'
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my hap-
piness centered in this, that I had now got a good ser-
vant, or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I was
resolved to prove a kind master, and lasting friend.
He had not, I think; slept above an hour, when he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard hy, put he run from the cave towards me in my
inclosure, and laying himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made, all the antic gestures
imaginable, to express his thankfulness to me for be-
ing his deliverer.. I confess, though the manner of
his behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to oc-
casion laughter, yet I was very much moved at his
affection, so that my heart melted within me, fear-
ing he might die away in excess of joy, like reprieved
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
malefactors; and then I was incapable either to let
him blood, or administer physic. And I wish many
Christians would take example by this heathen, to
have a lasting remembrance of those great benefits
and deliverances they have received, by the kind me-
diation and powerful interposition of their benefac-
tors and deliverers: And I should be glad also if I
had no occasion to blame many, who, instead of
thankfully acknowledging these kind of favours and
benefits, rather abuse and contemn those who have-
been the principal instruments to save them from de-
struction.
But leaving those very just reflections, I must re-
turn to the object that occasioned them : For my man,
to conclude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down
'Jii6 head again on the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his head, as he had done be-
fore, making all the signs of subjection, servitude
and submission imaginable, to let me understand he
would serve me as long as his life endured. Asl un-
derstood him in many things, I made him sensible I
was very well pleased with him; and in a little time
I began to speak to him, and learn him how to talk
to me again. In the first place I made him to un-
derstand his name to be Friday^ because it was on
that day I saved his life. Then I taught him to fay
Ma/ier, which I made him sensible was to be my
name. I likewise learned him to say yes and no, and
to know what they meant. I gave him some milk in
an earthen pot, making him view me while I drank
it before him, and soaked my bread in it; and I gave
him a cake of bread, causing him to do the like, to
which he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there, but no sooner
did the morning light appear, than I ordered him to
arise and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine;, at.
which he seemed very glad, as being stark naked, not
so much as any thing to cover what ought to be con-
cealed. As we, passed by the place where the two
men had been interred, my man pointed directly to
their graves, showing me the marks that he had made
to find them again ; giving me to understand by signs
that he should dig them up and devour them: Upon
which I appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost abhorrence, made as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning him with my hand to
cbme away, which he did with the greatest reverence
and submission. After this I conducted him to the
top of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages were
yet remaining there; but when I looked through my
perspective glass, I could fee no appearance of them,
nor of their canoes, so that it was very evident they
never minded their deceased companions whom We
had slain, which if they had, they would surely have
searched for, or left one boat behind for them to
follow, after they returned from their pursuit.
But still my curiosity and desire of satisfaction ani-
mating my spirit with fresh courage, I took my man
Priday with me, putting a sword into his hand, with
the bow and arrows at his back, which I perceived
he could use very dexterously, causing him to carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself; and thus
equipped against all attacks, away we marched direct-
ly to the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, I was struck with the utmost hor-
ror at so dreadful a spectacle; whilst Friday indeed
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt, in
bis turn, one of these devourers. Here lay several
human bOnes, there several,pieces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched, whilst streams of
blood ran promiscuously as waters from a fountain.
As I was musing on this dreadful sight, Friday took all
the pains he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four prisoners to
feast upon, three of whom they had eaten, and that
he was the fourth, pointing to himself; that there
having been a bloody battle between them and his
great king, in the just defence of whom he was taken
prisoner, with many others; all of these were carried
to several places to be devoured by their conquerors,
and that it was his misfortune to be brought hither
by these wretches for the fame purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and so burned them to ashes: Still I found my
man retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh; but such an
extreme abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not but concoal it; for I
made him very sensible, that is he offered any suck
thing I would certainly shoot him.
All this being done, I carried my man with me to
my castle; and then I gave him a pair of linen draw-
ers, which I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest
before-mentioned; and which, with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well : In the next place I made
him a jerkin of goat's skin, such at my skill was able
to manage, though 1 thought myself then a tolerable
good tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made
of a hare-lkin, very convenient and fashionable.
'Thus being clothed tolerably well, my man was no
less proud of his habit than I was in feeing him in
it. Indeed he went very aukwardly in these things
at first, the drawers being too heavy on his thighs,
not used to wear any weight, and the sleeves of the
waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his
arms; but by a little easing where he complained
they hurt him, and by using himfelf to them, at
length he took to them very well.
My next concern was where I should lodge him;
and that I might do very well by him, and yet be per-
fectly easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in the in-
side os the last, and outside of the first; and as there
,was an entrance or door in my cave, I made a formal
framed door-case, and a door to open on the inside.
] barred it up in the night time, taking in my lad-
ders too; so that .was my man to prove treacherous,
there would be no way to come at me in the inside
of my innermost, wall, without making so much noise
in getting over, that it must needs waken me; for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up to
the side of the mountain, which was again laid
cross with smaller stick* instead of laths, and thatch- .
ed over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was »s strong as reeds; and at the hole of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
but have fallen down and made a great noise; and as
to my weapons, every night I toot them all to my'
bed-side.
But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never master had a more sincere, faithful, and
loving servant than Friday proved to me, without pas-
sion, sullenness, or design, perfectly obliging and en-
gaging; his affections were as much tied to me as
those of a child to his parents; and I might venture to
fay, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving of
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed the
many testimonies he gave me of this very sussiciently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use these
precautions. And here 1 could not but reflect, with
great wonder,that however it has pleased the Almighty
in his providence, and in the government of the crea-
tion, to take from so great a part of the world of his
creatures, the noblest uses to which their faculties,
and the powers of their souls are adapted; yet that
he has bestowed upon them the fame reason, affec-
tions, sentiments of kindness and obligation, passions
of resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capa-
cities of doing and receiving good, that he- has given
us; and that when he is graciously pleased to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper uses
for which they were bestowed, than we often are.
These thoughts would make me very mehncholy,
especially when I considered how mean a use we
make of all these, even though we have our pow-
ers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God, and by
the knowledge of his word, as an addition to our un-
derstanding; and why it has pleased the heavenly
wisdom to conceal the like saving knowledge from so
many millions of fouls, who would certainly make a
much better use of it, than mankind generally do
.at this time. These reflections would sometimes
lead me so far, as to invade the sovereignty of Provi-
'dence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of such an
arbitrary disposition of things, that should obscure that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet ex-
pect a like duty from all. But I closed it up, check-
ing my thoughts with this conclusion ; fir/1, that we.
were ignorant of that right and law by which these
should be condemned; but that, as the Almighty was
necessarily, and by the nature of his essence, infinitely
just and holy, so it could not be otherwise, but that
if these creatures were all destined to absence from
himself, it was on account of finning against that light,
which, as the Scripture fays, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their conscience would acknow-
ledge to be just, though the first foundation was not
discovered to us; and, secondly, that still as we are
the clay in the hand of the potter,' no vessel could
thus fay to him, 'Why hast thou fashioned me after
this manner?
I had not been above two or three days returned
to my castle, but my chief design was how I should
bring Friday osf from, his horrid way of feeding, and
to tike from him that inhuman relish he' by nature
had been accuitomed to; I thought it my duty to let
him taste other flesh, which might the rather tempt
him to the same abhorrence I so often expressed
against their accursed way of 'living. Upon which»
one morning, I took him out with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it
home and dress it; but as I was going, I perceived a
she-goat lying down in-the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. Immediately I catched hold of my mart
Friday; and bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece, and shot one of the kids. My poor-
servant, who had at a distance perceived me kill his
adversary, and yet did not know by what means, or
how it was done, stood trembling and surprised, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at,
or beheld I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat
to fee if he was not wounded, thinking my resolution
was to kill him,; so coming to me, he fell on his
knees, earnestly pronouncing many things which.Ldid
not understand the meaning of, which at length I
perceived was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to see%iim in that
condition where nature is upon the severest trial, when
the immediate hand of death- is ready to put for ever a
period to this mortal life; and indeed so much com-
passion had I for this creature, that it was with dissi-
culty I refrained from*tears. But however as another
fort of countenance was necessary to convince him
that I would do him no harm, I took him smiling
by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing to
the kid which I had slain,' made signs to him to fetch
it, which accordingly he did. No less curious was
he in viewing how the creature was killed, than he
had been before in beholding the Indian; while he
was admiring it I charged my gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a great fowl, like a hawk, perch-
ing upon a tree within shot; and therefore to let Fri-
day understand what I was going to do, I called him
to me again, pointing at the fowl, which I found to be
a parrot. I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade him
look, when immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding all
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it far or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greatest a-
ftonishment to one who never had heard of such a
thing in his whole- life; and really his amazement
continued so long, that, had I allowed it, he would
have prostrated himself before me and my gun, with
the greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as suffer his fin-
gers to touch it for several days after, but would come
and communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to ir,
as if the senseless piece had understood and-answered
Him: All this I could perceive him do, when he
thought my back was turned; the chief intent of
which was to desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards
came to understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from those comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; but when his astonishment was a little over,
I made tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot that
I had shot, which he accordingly did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason the bird not be-
ing quite dead, had fluttered some way farther from
the place where he fell. In the mean time, as he'-was
looking for'her, I took the advantage of charging my
gun again, that I might be ready for aaother'mark
that might offer itself; but nothing more occurred at
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening took off the skin, and divided the carcase as
well as I could. Part of this flesh I stewed, and boil-
ed in a pot I had for the purpose; and then spread-
ing my table, I sat down, giving my man some to eat
too, who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to like
it very welL; but what was most surprising to him
was to fee me eat salt with it; upon which he made
me understand that the salt was very bad for me;
when putting a little into his mouth, he seemed to
nauseate it in such a manner as to spit and sputter at
it, and then washed his mouth with fresh water;
but to show him how contrary his opinion was to
mine, I put some meat in my mouth without salt,
and feigned to spit and sputter as much for the want
of it as he had done at it; yet all this proved of no
signification to Friday, and it was a long while be-
fore he could endure salt in his meat or broth, and
even then but a very small quantity.
Thus having fed him sussiciently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was resolved to
feast him with a roasted piece of the kid ; and having
no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use of
that common artifice which many of the people of
England have, that is, to set two poles upon each
side of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat thereon with a string, and so turning round con-
tinually, roast it, as. we read bloody tyrants have
cruelly roasted martyrs. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite another
way to what the barbarous savages were accustomed.
But when he came to taste the sweetness and tender-
ness of the flesh, he expressed his entire satisfaction
above a thousand different ways; and,, as I could
not but understand his meaning, you may be sure I
was wonderfully pleased, especially when he made
ROBstsSON CRUSOE.
it also very plain to me, that he would never whilst
he lived eat man's flesh more.
Well, now it was high time I should set my ser-
vant to work; so the next day I put him to beat out
some corn, and sift it in the same manner as I had
done before; and really the fellow was very quick
and handy in the execution of any thing I ordered
him to go about. I made him understand that it wag
to make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him
fee me make and bake it: In short, he did every
thing as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could do it myself.
When I considered that I had two mouths to feed
instead of one, I was necessarily obliged to think that,
in consequence thereof, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the same
manner as I had done before; in the execution of
which I must give Friday this good word, that no man
could work more hard or willingly than he did: And
when I made him sensible that it was for bread to
serve him as well as me, he then very passionately
made me understand that he thought I had much
more labour on me on his account than I had for my-
self \ and that no pains or diligence should be want-
ing in him, if I would but direct him in those works
wherein he might succeed.
I must certainly own that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in this island, for aster some time
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of those things which I was wont to call for,
and the places where I used to send him: So that my
long silent tongue, which had been useless so many
years, except in an exclamatory manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied
in teaching and talking to my man Friday; for in-
deed I had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow
121
himself, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned ho-
nesty appear more and more to me every day, that I
really began entirely to love him: And, for his
part, I believe there was no love lost, and that his na-
ture had been more charmed with my exceeding
kindness, and his asfections more placed upon me,
than upon any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen. Once I had a great mind to try if he had
any hankering inclination to return to his own coun-
try again: And by this time, having learned him
English so well that he could give me tolerable answers
to any questions which I demanded, I asked him,
Whether that nation, to which he belonged, ever con-
quered in battle i This question made Friday smile,
and to which he answered, Yes, yes, we al-ways fight
.the better; as much as to fay, they always got the
better in fight. Upon which we proceeded on the
following discourse. You fay, said I, that you al-
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that my nation beat much.
Masier. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
them, how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more many rnans than my nation in
the place where me %vas-; they take one, two, three,
and me: My nation muoh over beat them in the
yonder place, where me no was; there my nation
mans beat one, two, three great toufands.
Master. Then why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies?
, Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me;
they make all go in the canoo; my nation have no
canoo that time.
Masier. It is very well, Friday: But what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take i Do
they carry them away, and eat them, as these have
done i
F
Friday, Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat up
all.
Mafter. To what place do they carry them to be
.devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Mnfter. Do they* bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place. .: '.r-.
Master. And have you been with them here, Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here ; (pointing to the north-
west of the island, being the side where they used to
land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the cannibals, having been formerly
among the savages who used to come on shore on
the farthest part of the island, upon the same bloody
occasions as he was brought here for: And some time
after I carried him to that place where he pointed;
and no sooner did he come there but he-presently knew
the ground, signifying to me, that he was once there,
when they eat up twenty men, two. women, and a
young child. But as he could not explain the num-
ber in English, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have theirather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and useful for me to
know: For after I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a
little way out to the sea, there was a strong current,
and a wind always one way in the afternoon. This
I thought at first to be no. more, than the sets of the
fide, of going out, or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth
I
ttf gulph of which I imagined my kingdom lay; and
that the land which I perceived to the W. and N. W.
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north of the
river. A thoufand questions (if that would satisfy me)
did I ask Friday about the nature of the country, the
sea, the coasts, the inhabitants, and what nations
Y' were nearest them: To which questions the poor
fellow declared all he knew with the greatest open-
ness and utmost sincerity. When I demanded of him
the particular names of the various nations of his
fort of people, he could only answer me in general
that they were called Caribbee. Hence it was I consi-
dered that these must be the Caribbees, so much taken
notice of by our maps to be on that part of America,
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko
to Guiana, and so on to St. Martha'. Then Friday
proceeded to tell me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, as much as to fay, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, such as I was,, pointing to
my whiskers, and that they had killed much mans.
I was not ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards
treated these creatures; so that I presently concluded
it must be them, whose cruelties had spread through-
out America, to be remembered even to succeeding
generations. .
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information of my man had let me
to, was very comfortable to me, and made me so cu-
rious as to ask him, how I might depart from this
island, and get among those white men? he told me
l~es, yes, I might go in two canoes. In two- canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean? surely he means
one for himself and another for me; and if not, how
must two canoes hold me, without being joined, and
then put one part of my body in one, and the other in
the other; and indeed it was a long while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
large boat as big as two canoes, able to bear with the
waves, and not so liable to be overset as a small one
Would be.
I believe tbere is no state of life but what may be~
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part to
make it so. He is not the happiest man that has the
most riches, but he that is content with what he hath.
Before I had my servant I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now I enjoyed the happy benefits
of him, I still complained, and begged a deliverance
from a place of retirement, ease, and plenty, where
Providence had, sussiciently blessed me: In a word,
from this time I entertained some hopes, that one
time or other I might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this island, and that this poor savage
might be a great furtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent
as to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains
or diligence to instruct him, according-to my poor
share of knowledge, in the principles of religion,
and the adoration that he ought to pay to the true
God. One time, as I very weli remember, I asked
him who made him? At first, the innocent creature
did not understand what I meant, but rather thought
I asked him who was his father? upon which I took
another way to make him sensible, by demanding of
him an answer to this question. Friday (said I), who
is it that made the sea, this ground whereon we walk,
and all these hills and woods which we behold? And
here indeed I did not miss of my intention; for he told
me it was old Bettamuclee, (the God whom I supposed
these savages adored) who lived a great way beyond
all. But as for bis attributes, poor Friday was ait
utter stranger to them. He could describe nothing
of this great person; and all that he could say was,
that he was very old, much older than the sea and
land, the moon, or the stars. Friday (said I again),
if this great and old person has made all things in the
world, how comes it to pass, that all things, as yOu
in particular, do not adore and worship him? Upon
this, looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of
innocence, he replied, Masier, all things fay 0 to
him-, by which it may reasonably be supposed he meant
adoration. And where, faid 1, do the people of your
country go when they die? He answered, They all
go to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are
eaten up, do they go there? Said he, Benamuckee love
them dearly; ive pray to Benamuckee in de canoe, and
Benamuckee would love me, when dey eat a me all up.
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and
such made me sensible that the true God is worship-
ped, though under imperfect similitudes; and that the
false adoration which the heathens give to their ima-i
ginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
essence, as the most learned atheists, falsely so called,
can bring against it: For God will be glorified in his
works, let the denomination be what it will; and 1
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right notion of faith, in a place where the wisdom of
the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached; and
therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedience'
is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting by
that light and knowledge which they are possefled
of, may undoubtedly obtain a happy salvation, though
not that enjoyment with Christ as his saints, confes-
sors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations aside, more fit for
the ablest divines than me to discuss, I began to in-
struct my senfant in the saving knowledge of the
true deity; in which the directions of God's Holy
Spirit assisted me. 1 lifted up my hands to heaven,
and pointing thereto, told him, that the great Maker
of heaven and earth lived there: That as his infinite-
power fashioned this world out of a confused chaos,
and made it in that beautiful frame which we behold,
F3
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
so lie governs and preserves it, by his unbounded
knowledge, sovereign greatness, and peculiar provi-
dence: That he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to us, and take every
thing away fromms: That he was a rewarder and
punisher of good and evil actions: That there was
nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so secret
but he could bring to light: And thus by degrees I
opened his eyes, and described to him the manner of
the creation of the world, the situation of paradise,
the transgressions of cur first parents, the wicked-
ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal sins
and abominations of the whole earth. When these
things were implanted in his mind, I told him that
as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resolved
to destroy this world, till his son Jesus Christ inter-
posed in our behalf, and to procure our redemption,
obtained leave of his heavenly Father to come down,
from heaven into the world, where he took human
nature upon him, instructed us in our way to eter-
nal life, and died as a sacrifice for our sins: That he.
was now ascended into heaven, mediating for our
pardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining alL
those benefits which we asked in his name, by hum-
ble and hearty prayers, which were heard at the
throne of heaven. As very frequently I used to in-
culcate things into his mind, Friday one day told
me, that if our great God could hear us beyond the.
fun, he must then be surely a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way of, and yet
could not hear them,till they ascended thegreat moun-
tains, where he dwelt, to speak to him. What, said \%
Friday, did you go thither to speak to him too? He
answered, No, they never went that were young
men; none but old men, called their Oowckakee,
meaning the Indian priests, who went to fay O (so he*
called saying their prayers), and they returned back,,
and told them what Benamuckee said. From hence i
127
eould not but observe how happy we Christians are,,
who have God's immediate revelation for our certain
guide; and that our faith is neither misted, nor our
reason imposed upon, by any set 0/ men,' such as-
these Indian impostors. - '-
But to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
day, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountains to fay O to their
god Benamuckee, was an imposture; and' that their
bringing back an answer was all a sham, if not
worse; for that, if there was any such thing spoken
to them, surely it must proceed from an infernal-
spirit. And here I thought it necessary to enter in-
to a long discourse with him, which I did after this
manner:
. Friday, (said I) you must know, that before this
world was made, there was one Almighty Power
existing, by whose power all things were made, and
whose majesty shall have no end. To be glorified
and adored by beings of a heavenly nature, he creat-
ed angels and archangels, that is, glorious spirits re-
sembling himself, to encompass his throne, eternal-
ly singing forth his praise in the most heavenly sounds
and divine harmony 1 And among this heavenly
choir, Lucifer bore a great sway, as being then one
of the peculiar favourites of these celestial abodes;
but he, contrary to that duty he owed his heavenly
Sovereign, with unbounded ingratitude to his divine
Creator, not only envied him that adoration which
was his due, but thought to usurp that throne,
which he had neither power to keep, nor title to
pretend to. He raised a distension and civil war in:
heaven, and had a number of angels to take his part.
Unbounded folly, stupendous pride, thus to hope for
victory, and aspire above his powerful Creator! The
deity, not fearful of such an enemy, yet justly pro-
voked at this rebellion, commissions his archangel
Michael to lead forth the heavenly host, and give him.
battle; the advantage of which was quickly perceiv-
ed, by Satan's being overthrown, and the prince of
the air (for so the devil was called) with all his fallen
angels, driven headlong into a dismal place, which is
called hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfac-
tion, by his gestures, that God had sent the devil
into the deep hole. And then I desired him to give
great heed to what I had further to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, yet equal to him in power and glory, Com*
let us make man (said he) in our vu>n imagt, after our
own likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over the
creatures in the world which we have created. And
these he intended should glorify him in heaven, ac-
cording to their obedience in this shte of probation on
earth, which was as it were to be the school to train
them up for those heavenly mansions. Now Satan,
seeing himself foiled, yet that God had not taken
the power from him, as prince of the air, which
power Heaven designed he should retain, whereby his
creatures might be tried; in revenge to the disgrace
he had received, he tempts Adam's wife, Eve, to taste
of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which God
had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape of a
serpent, being then a most beautiful creature, and
tells her, that it was no better than an imposition
which God had put upon her and her husband, not
to eat of that fair fruit which he had created; that
the taste thereof would make them immortal, like
God himself, and consequently as great and power-
ful as he: Upon which she not only e2t thereof her-
self, but made her husband eat also, which brought
them both under the heavenly displeasure.
2
Here Friday expressed a great concern: Ah ! poor
mans! (cried he) naughty nvomans! naughty devil .'
make Gad not love de mans, make mans like devil him-
Friday, (said I) God still loved mankind; and
though the devil tempted human nature so far, he
would not suffer him to have absolute power over
them. I have told you before of his tender love to
his people, till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his com-
mands and rebelled against him; and that even then,
how jesus Christ his only son came to save sinners.
But still every man that lives in the world is under
temptation and trial. The devil has yet a power, as
prince of the air, to suggest evil cogitations into our
minds, and prompt us on to wicked actions, that he
might glory in our destruction: Whatever evil
thoughts we have proceed from him. So that God,
in this our distress, expects that we should apply our-
selves to him by fervent priyerfor speedy redress: He
is not like Benamuckee, to let none come near him but
Oowokakee ; but suffers the people, as well as priests,
to offer themselves at his feet, thereby to be deliver-
ed from the power and temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some
concern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not
so easy to imprint the right notions of him in his
mind, as it was the divine essence of God : For there
nature assisted me in all my arguments to show to him
plainly the necessity of a great first cause, and over-
ruling governing power, of a secret directing Provi-
dence, and of the equity and reasonableness of pay-
ing adoration to our Creator; whereas there appear-
ed nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit,
of his "first beginning, his nature, and above all, of
his inclination to evil actions, and his power to tempt
us to the like. And indeed this unlearned Indian,
by the mere force of nature, puzzled me with one
particular question, more than ever I could have ex--
pected.
I had, it seems, one day been talking to him of
the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite ab-
horrence of sin, insomuch that the Scriptures styled
him a consuming fire to all the workers of iniquity;
and that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to
destroy all the world in a moment, the greater part
of which are continually osfending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a-
freat while to what I said, after I had been telling
im, how the devil was God's enemy in the heart*
of all men, and used all his malice and stall to defeat
the good designs of Providence, and to destroy the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and so forth: Very-
well, Master (said Friday), you say, God is so strong,,
so great, is he not much stronger, much mightier than
the naughty devil I To be sure, Friday, said I, God.
is more wife and stronger than the serpent: He is
above the devil, which makes us pray to him, that
he would tread down Satan under our feet, enable us
to resist his violent temptations, and quench his fiery
dart?. Why then, (answered Friday quickly) is God, as-
you say, has much Jlrong, much might as the devil, why
Cod no kill devil, make no more tempt, no more do wicked?
You may be certain 1 was strangely surprised at this
question of my man's; and though an old man, I was
but a young doctor, and consequently very ill qualified,
for a casuist or a resolver of intricate doubts in reli-
gion. And as it required some time for me to study
for an answer, I pretended not to hear him, nor tov
ask him what he said: But so earnest was he for an
answer, as. not to forget the question, which he re-
feated in the very fame broken words as above. When
had recovered myself a little, Friday, (said I) God.will
mt last punish him severely, being reserved for judgments
and is to be cal into the bottomless pit,, to remain in firt
everlasting. But all this did not satisfy Friday, for re-
turning upon me, he repeated my words, Reserve at
lofty me no under/land; tut why net kill devil
mt hill devil great, great.while ago? Friday, (said 1}
you may as well ask me why God does not kill you
and me, when by our wicked actions we so much
osfend his divine Majesty; He gives us time to re-
pent of our sins, that thereby we may obtain pardon.
At these words, obtain pardon, Friday mused a great
while, and at last, looking me stedsastly in the face:
Well, well, (said he) that's very well; Jo you, I, devil,
all wicked mans, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity, .
when it became very evident to me, how mere natural
notions will guide reasonable creatures to the know-
ledge of a deity, and to the homage due to the su-
preme being of a God; but however nothing but di-
vine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us, of
the Mediator of the new covenant, and of an inter-
cessor at the footstool of God's throne; and there-
fore the gospel, of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christy
that is, the word and spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctisier of his people, are the most ne-
cessary instructors of the fouls of men, in the sav-
ing knowledge of the Almighty, and the means to
attain eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this
discourse between my man and me, for which purpose
I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some occasion
to go out, sending Friday for something that was a-
good way off. I then fell on my knees, and beseech-
ed God that he would inspire me so far, as to guide
this poor savage in the knowledge of Christ, to answer
his questions more clearly, that his conscience might
be convinced, his,eyes opened, and his foul saved*
When he returned again, I entered into a very long
discourse with him,upon the subject of the world's re-
demption by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of re-
pentance preache;! from heaven,together with anholy.
faith in our blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ: And then
h gr-oeeeded to explain to him, according to my weak,
capacity, the reason why our Saviour took not oft
him the nature of angels, but rather the feed of A-
braham ; and how upon that account the fallen an-
gels had no benefit by the redemption; and lastly,
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like. God knows, I had more sin-
cerity than knowledge in all the ways I took for this
poor Indian's instruction; and I must acknowledge,
that I believe every body that acts upon the fame
principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths
open before him, I informed and instructed myself
in many things, that either I did not know, or had
not perfectly considered of before. But as I search-
ed into them for the information of this poor savage,
so they naturally occurred to my mind; and my in-
quiry after many things was more asfectionate than
ever I felt in my life: So that however this poor
Creature might be improved by my instruction, cer-
tain it is, that upon this account I had great reason-
to bless kind Providence for sending him to me. His
company allayed my grief, and made my habitation
more comfortable: And when I reflected that this
solitary life, to which I had been so long confined,
had not only moved me to look towards heaven, but
made me the instrument, under Providence, to save
the life, and for aught I knew, the soul of a poor sa-
vage, by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus
Christ; this caused a secret joy to spread through e-
very part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that
ever I was brought to this place, which I once
thought to be the most miserable part of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards con-
tinue while I abode on the island; and for three
years did my man and I live in the greatest enjoy-
ment and happiness, by our conversation one with
another.' And indeed I believe the savage was as
good a Christian as I; and I hope we were equally
penitent 5 and such penitents that were comforted
and restored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we
had the word of the Lord to instruct us in the right
way, and we were no farther off the assistance of the
Holy Ghost, than if we had been on the English shore.
By the constant applications I made of the Scriptures,
fts I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly endea-
voured to make him understand every part of them,
as much as lay in my power. He also, on the other
hand, by his 'very serious questions and inquiries,
made me a much better proficient in Scripture know-
ledge than I should have been by my own private
reading and study. I must not omit another thing
proceeding from the experience I had in. my retire-
ment ; it was, that infinite and inexpressible blessing,
the knowledge of God through Christ Jesus, which
was so plain arid easy to be understood, as immedi-
ately to direct me to carry on the great work of sin-
cere repentance for my fins, and laying hold of a Sa-
viour for eternal life, to a practical stated reforma-
tion, and obedience to all God's institutions, without
the assistance of a reverend and orthodox divine; and
especially by this fame instruction, so to enlighten
this savage creature' as to make him such a good
Christian as very few could exceed him; and there
was only this great thing wanting, that I had no au-
thority to administer the holy sacrament, that heaven-
ly participation of Christ's body and blood; yet, how-
ever, we rested ourselves content that God would ac-
cept our desires, and, according to our faith, have
mercy on us.
But what we wanted one way was.made up in ano-'
ther, and that was universal peace in our little church.
We had no disputes nor wranglings about the nature
and quality of the holy, blessed, and undivided Tri-
nity; no niceties in doctrine, or schemes of church-
government; no four and morose dissenters to impose
snore sublimated notions upon us, nor pedant fophiC.
ters, to confound us with Unintelligible mysteries: But
instead of all this, we enjoyed the most certain guide
to heaven, that is, the word of God j besides which
ROBINSOS CRUSOE.
we had the comfortable views of his Spirit lead'mg-
us into the truth, and making us both willing and,
obedient to the instruction of his word. And as Ac-
knowledge and practice of this are the principal
means of salvation, I cannot see what it avails any
Christian church or man in the world, to amuse
themselves with every indifferent speculation and opi-
nion, except those who have a mind to display their
particular vanity and affectation.
You may well suppose that, by the frequent dis-
courses we had together, my man and I became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very,
little that I could fay, but Friday understood, speaking
very fluently, though indeed it was but broken Eng-
lish. And really I now took a particular pleasure in.
relating all my adventures, especially those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this island. I made
him understand that wonderful mystery, as he con-
ceived,, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how*
to shoot: I also presented him a knife, which pleas-
ed him exceedingly; making him a belt with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear hang-
ers in England; and instead of a hanger to put in.
that frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only,
as good, but even a better weapon upon any occasion..
In a word, my man thus accoutred, looked upon him-
self as great as Don Quixote, when that celebrated
champion went to combat the windmill.
After all this, I gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of the territories of Europe, and in a particular
manner of Old England, the place of my nativity. I
laid before him the manner of our worshipping God,
our behaviour to one another, and how we traded in.
ships to every part of the universe. 1 then told him.
my misfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him,,
as near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which-
bad been long gone before. I brought him to the.
ruins of my boat, which before my whole strength
could not move, but now was almost rotten and fal-
len to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view thi*
boat with an uncommon curiosity, which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while and said
nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what makes you
ponder so much? he replied, O Master, me see like
boat come to place at my nation.
I was some time indeed before I understood what
my man meant; but examining farther into it I
plainly found such another boat,, resembling that^had
come to the country where he dwelt;. as much as to
fay, by his farther explanation, that the boat was.
driven there through violent storms and stress of wea-
ther. It presently came into my mind, that some Eu-
ropean ship Living been cast away, the poor distress-
ed creatures were forced to have recourse to the boat
to save their lives; and being all, as I thought, drown-
ed, I never concerned myself to afle any thing about
them, but my only inquiry was about the boat, and*
what description my man could give of it.
Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,,
making every thing very plain to my understanding;
but especially I was satisfied when he told me, with
a great warmth and ardour, 0 Master, rue save white
mansfrom drown: Upon which I immediately asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat ? Yes, yes, (said he) the boat full, very
full, .white mans. How many, Friday? said I. Here-
upon he numbered his fingers and counted seventeen.
And when I afleed him what became of them all, and
whether they lived or not? he replied, Yes, Master,
they all live, they be live 'mong my nation. This plainer
information put new thoughts into my head, that
these must be those very men, which before I con-
cluded had; been swallowed up in the-ocean after they,
had left their ship, that had struck upon the rocks o£
my kingdom; and after escaping the fury of the
deep, landed upon the wild shore, and committed
themselves to the fury of those devouring Indian^.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which, consequently, as I thought, must be acted with
greater barbarity to strangers, created a great anxiety
within me, and made me still more curious to ask
Friday concerning them: He told me, he was sure
they lived still there, having resided among them a-
bove sour years, and the favages gave them victuals
to live upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence pro-
ceeded all this good nature and generosity? How came
it to pass th.-.t they did not kill and eat them to please
their devouring appetites, and occasion so splendid an
entertainment among them? ATc, no, (said Friday) they
not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em; by which I
understood there was a truce between them- And
then I had a more favourable opinion of the Indians,
upon Friday's uttering these words ; My nation, father
nation, no eat mans, but when mans make war fight;
as though he had said, that neither those of his king-
dom nor any other nation that he knew of, ever eat
their fellow-creatures, but such whom their law of
arms allowed to be devoured; and they were thole
miserable captives, whose great misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
uporj the top of a hill, on the east side of the island,
whence I had once before beheld the continent of
America. I could not tell immediately what wa3
the matter, for suddenly Friday fell a-jumping and
dancing as if he had been mad; and upon my de-
manding the reason of his behaviour, 0 joy ! (said he)
O glad! There fee my country, there my nation, there live
white mans all gether. And indeed such a rapturous
fense of pleasure appeared in his countenance, that
his eyes had an uncommon sparkling and brightness,
and such a strange eagerness, as if he had a longing
desire to be in his own country again; and this new
observation which I had, made me not so well satis-
•37
fiect with my man Friday as before; for by this ap-
pearance I made no dispute, but that if he could get
back thither again, he would not only be unmindful
of what religion I had taught him, but likewise of the
great obligation that he owed me for his wonder-
ful deliverance : Nay, that he would not only inform
his countrymen of me, but accompany hundreds of
them to my kingdom, and make me a miserable'facri-
'-fke^like those unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these cruel
and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I wronged
the poor creature very much, who was quite of a con-
trary temper; and had he that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have, he would have perceived'
my coldness and indifference, and also have been very
much concerned upon this account: For as I was now
more circumspect, I had much lessened my kindness
and familiarity with him ; and while this jealousy con-
tinued, i used that artful way (now too much ia fa-
shion to occasion strife and dissension) of pumping him
daily, thereby to discover whether he was deceitful in
his thoughts and inclinations: But certainly he had
nothing in him but what was consistent with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and grateful
friend; and indeed I found every thing he said was
so ingenuous and innocent,that I had no room for sus-
picion, and in spite of all uneasiness, he not only mad«
me entirely his own again, but also caused me much
to lament that I ever conceived one ill thought of him.
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather being so hazy at sea that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, smong your old friends and acquaintance?
7~es, (said he) me much (J glad to be at mytwn nation.
\ And what would you do there, Friday ? (said 1) would
you turn wild again,! eat man's flesh, and be a savage
as you was formerly? No, no, (answered he, full of
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
concern, tand shaking his head), Friday new tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-fleflj, milk, no eat man again. But surely,,
(replied I) is you should osfer to do all this, they will
kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such in-
struction, may eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, No, they no kill me, they "willing love
learn; that is, that they would be very willing to learn v
adding withal, that they had learn much of the bearded
mans that come in the boat. Will you go back again
Friday? said 1. He smiled at that, and told me that
he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will make a
canoe for you ; Yes Mqfler, (said he) me go if yau go i
me no go if youfay. Friday ! (said I) why would you
have them eat me up, and devour your kind master?
No, no, (said he) me make they no eat mafler, me makt
they much love you; that is, he would tell them how
I had slain his enemies, and thereby saved Jiis life,
for which reason he would make them love me ; and
then he related to me, as well as he was able, how
exceeding kind those os his nation were to the white,
or bearded men as he called them, who, in their
great calamity, were driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts, if
possible, to join these white bearded men, who un-
doubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese; for (thought
I) it must be certainly a better and safer way to escape
when there is good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles off the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Friday and I being
at work as usual, at the same time diverting ourselves
with various discourses, I told him I had a boat which
I would bestow upon him, whenever he pleased to re-
turn to his own nation; and to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the other
fide of the island where my frigate lay, and then tak-
ing it from under the water (for I always kept it
funk for fear of a discovery), we both went into it,
to fee how it would manage such an expedition.
Really never could any be more dexterous in rowing
than my faithful servant, making the boat go as fait
again as I could. 'Well now, Friday (said 1), shall'
we go to your so much desired nation ?, But instead
of meeting with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying so;
which indeed at first surprised me, till he made me
sensible that his-concern was about the boat's being
too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which I let
him understand I had a much bigger; and according-
ly the next day, went to the place where the first boat
lay which I had made, when all the strength I had,
or art I could use, failed me in my attempt to get it
into the water; but now, it having lain in the sun,
two-and-twenty years, and no care being taken of it
all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man told me, that such a boat would do very well
for the purpose; sussicient to carry enough vittle%
dring, bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, I very plain-
ly told him that we would both go and make a boat
full as big, and more proportionable than that,
wherein he might safely return to his own nation.
These words I observed made Friday look so very
pensive, that I thought he would have fallen at my feet.
It was some time before he could speak a word, which
made me ask him what was the matter with him? He
replied, in a very soft and moving tone, What has,
poor Friday done? Why are you angry mad with, poor
servant? What me done, 0 what me done? Friday, said
I, you never yet have offended me, what makes you
think I am angry with you, when lam not angry at all?
You no angry no angry, (laid he several times)//'you be no,
angry, -why den send Friday over great water to my owri
i
ROBINSON CRU*OB.
nation? Why surely, Friday, (answered I) did not you
wish to be there, when from a mountain you beheld
the place where you was born ? and is it not to satisfy
your desires that I am willing to give you leave to re-
turn thither? Yes, yes,(saidFriday) me wish be theresure
'nough, tut me den wi/h majler there too-, no wish Friday
there, no master there. In short he cou-ld not endure the
thoughts of going there without me. I go there, Fri-
day ! (said I) what shall I do there ?—He answered
very quietly, 0 master, you do great deal much goody
you teach all de wild mans to be good tame mans, you
learn them to be sober, live good life, to know God, and
pray God. Alas! poor Friday, (said I) what can I do a-
gainst their priestsofBenamuckee,or indeed, what good
can I make your nation sensible of, when I myself am
but a poor ignorant man ? No, no, master, (said he) you
be no ignorant, you teachee me good, you teachee them good.
You shall go without me Friday, (said I) for I do not
care to accompany you thither ; I would rather live in
this solitude, than to venture among such inhuman
savages. Go your way, since you desire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck than
Friday was at these words, Go me away, leave master
away! said he, after a long silence. No, no, Friday
die, Friday not live master gone! as though he had
said, I neither can nor will live if my master sends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
strong ties of friendship, which many times surpass
those of consanguinity; for often we find a great
disagreement among kindred; and when there is any
seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
and scarce ever lasting, if powerful interest does not
bear the sway; and that alone is often the occasion
of the greatest hatred in the world; which is to de-
sire the death of parents and relations, for the fake
of enjoying their fortunes: But here was no such
thing between my servant and me ; instead of which
there was nothing but gratitude, and the sincerest
Jove : He found me not only his deliverer, but his pre-
server and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and asfable friend: He wanted for
no manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or
out of order, I was his physician, not only for hia
body, but his foul; and therefore no wonder was it that
such an innocent creature long since divested of his
former natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
concern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even to die rather than live without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all imaginr
able confusion, when immediately running to one of
his hatchets which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand with a heart so
full that he could scarce speak. Friday, (said I) what
is it you mean ? What must I do with this? Only kill
Friday, (said he) Friday no care live long. But what
must I kill you for ? replied I again. Ah! dear Master,
what make you Friday save from eat a me up, so keep long
Friday, make Friday love God, and not love Benamurkee;
and now Friday send away, never see Friday more! As
though the poor creature had said, Alas! my dearest,
kindest master,' how comes it to pass that after having
.Ventured your precious life to save me from the jaws
of devouring cannibals, like myself; aftersuch a tender
regard to provide for me such comfortable nourish-
ment, and continuing so long a kind master, and most
sincere friend; and after making me forsake the false
notion t>f an Indian deity,and worship the true God in
spirit and in truth; after all this, I fay, how comes it
now that you are willing to fend me away to my for-
mer course of living, by which means undoubtedly we
shall be dead to each other ; but greater must be my
misfortune, that I shall never behold the best friend I
tiavc in this world any more! And this certainly, though
he could not express himself so sully, must be his fen*
timents; for the tears ran down his cheeks in such a
. plentiful manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
weeping also, when I beheld the poor creature's affec-
tion ; so that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner, which I did by telling him, if he was content
to abide with me, I should be ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
sully to convince me of his affection, he said, 0 Mas-
ter, me not care be in my nation, leave you here; me defire
my nation learn good, that all; meaning that his desire
was for the conversion of that barbarous people. But
as I had no apostolic mission, nor any concern about
their salvation, so I had neither the least intention
or defire of undertaking it: and the strength of my
inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly from
my late discourse with Friday about those seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon the
barbarian coast, whom I designed to join with, as a
surer means to further our escape. To which intent
my man and I went to search for a proper tree to fell,
whereof we might make a large periagua, or canoe,
to undertake the voyage : And indeed we needed not
be long in finding one fit for our purpose, there be-
ing wood enough in the island to have built a fleet
of large vessels; but the thing we principally wanted
was, to get one so near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit so
horrid a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgment in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitched upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. To this day I
cannot tell the name of the tree I cut it from, nor
describe it any other way, than only by faying,- that it
is very like what we call fustic, or betwixt that and
the Nicaragua wood, being much of the fame colour
and smell. But though my man exceeded me in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed
him a much better and cleaner way to make a canoe
than ever he knew before; for he was for burning
the hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat { but I then told him how we might do it with
tools, learning, him at the fame time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that in a
month's labour we finished it, making it very hand-
some by cutting the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this it took us full a fortnight before
we could get her into the water, which we did as it
were inch by inch, upon great rollers: But when she
was in, she would have carried twenty men with all
the ease imaginable.
As I was very well pleased you may be sure at the
launching of this man of war of mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. Well,
Friday, (said I) what do you think of it now ? Do you
think this will carry us over? Tes,Master, (said he) me
venture over well, though great blotu wind. But my de-
sign was yet /arther, which he was insensible of, and
that was to make a mast and fail, and to provide her
with an. anchor and cable. As for a mast, that was
no difficult thing at all to procure; so I fixed upon a
straight young cedar tree, which I found near the
place, there abounding great plenty of it in the island;
and setting Friday to cut it down, I gave Turn parti-
cular directions how to shape and order it: But as to
the fail I managed it myself. I very well knew I had
some old ones, or pieces of fails enough, which had
lain six-and-twenty years by me; but not being
careful to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more, when I came to
look over them, I found them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pains, and aukward tedious stitching,
for want of needles, I finished at length a three
coineied ugly thing, like that we call in England a
shcu der of mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot_
torn, and a little small sprit at the top, like those
which our long-boata use, and which I very well
knew how to manage, especially since it was like
that which I had in my patron's fishing-boat, when
with my boy Xury I made my escape from the Bar-
bary shore.
It wa6 near two months, I think, before I completed
this work, that is, the rigging and sitting my malt and
fails ; and indeed they were nicely done, having made
a small stay, and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to the westward; .and, which was still
more, I'fixed a rudder to the stern of her, to steerwith;
and though I was but a very indisferent shipwright,
yet, as I was sensible of the great usefulness and ab-
solute necessity of a thing like this, I applied myself
to it with such constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design ; but what with the many dull
contrivances I had about it, and the failure os many
things, it cost me as much pains in ordering as in
making the boat. Besides, when all this was done, I
had my man Friday to teach what belonged to its na-
vigation; for though he very well understood how to
paddle a canoe along, yet he was an utter llranger to
a fail, and a rudder, and was amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by them, and
how the fail gibbed and filled, this way or that way,
as the course we sailed changed. After some time,
and a little use, I made all these things very familiar
to him, so that he became an expert sailor, except
in relation to the compass; and that I could make
him understand but very little of. But as it happened
there was seldom occasion for it, there being but lit-
tle cloudy weather, and scarce ever any fog in those
parts ; the stars were always visible in the night, and
the shore perspicuous by day, except in the rainy sea-
son, which confined every one to his habitation.
Thus entered in the seven-and-twentieth year of
my reign, or captivity, which you please, (the last three
of which, blessed with the company of my man Frl-
day, ought not to be reckoned,) I kept the anniversary
of my landing here, with the same thankfulness to
God, for his tender mercies, as I did before; and
certainly, as I had great cause for a thankful ac-
knowledgement for my deliverance at first, I had
much greater now, forsuch singular and additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, in all my
distresses, both of body and mind, and the great hopes
I had of being esfectually and speedily delivered; for
I had a strong impression upon my mind, that I should
not be another year in this island: But however I still
continued on with my husbandry, digging, planting,
and fencing as usual, gathering and-curing my grapes,
and doing all other things that were necessary. '«».
And now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep longer within doors; but before'
this I brought my new vessel into the creek, where
I had landed my rafts from the ship, and hauling
her up to the more, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sussicient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep up the water; by which
means she lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and
to keep the rain from her, we thatched her over, as
it were,' with boughs of trees, like a house; and so
waited for the months of November and December, in
which I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated by this new designed
adventure, that I daily prepared for the voyage. The
first thing I thought of was to lay by a certain quan-
tity of provisions, as a sussicient store for such an ex-
pedition, intending in a week or fortnight's time to
open the dock and launch out the boat for that pur-
pose. But one morning, as I was very busy upon
something necessary for this occasion, I called Friday
to me, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see is he
G
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we
commonly had once a-week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for the fake of the flesh. He had not
been long gone, but he came running back, as though
he was pursued for life, and, as it were, flew over my
outward wall or fence, like one that felt not the
ground or steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to inquire the reason of his precipitation, he
cries out, O Master! 0 dear Master! O sorrow, sor-
row! bad! 0 bad! Why, what is the matter, Fri-
day? said I. V yonder, yonder, (said he) there be one,
two, three canoes I two, three! Surely (thought I)
there must be fix, by my man's way of reckoning:
bi^'on a stricter inquiry, I found there were but three.
Well, Friday,(said I)do not be terrified, I warrant you
we will not only defend ourselves against them, but
kill the most of those cruel savages. But though I com-
forted him in the best manner I could, the poor crea-
ture trembled, so that I scarce knew what to do with
him: 0 master, (said he) they come look Friday, cut
pieces Friday, eat a me up. Why, Friday, (said I)
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great as yours: But since it is so, we must resolve
to fight for our lives: What fay you? can you fight,
Friday? Yes, (said he, very faintly) me shoot, me kill
what I can, but there come great many number. That is
no matter, '(said I again) our guns will terrify those
that we do not kill: I am very willing to stand by you
till the last drop of my blood; now tell me, if you will
do the like by me, and obey my orders in whatsoever.
I command? Friday then answered, 0 Master, me lose
life fer you, me die when you bid die. Thus conclud-
ing all questions concerning his fidelity, immediately
I fetched a good dram of rum, (of which I had
been a very good husband) and gave it him to com-
fort his' heart. After he.had drank it, I ordered him
to take the two fowling-pieces which we always car-
ried, and load them with large swan shot as big as
2
small pistol bullet3; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets
each, charging my two pistols each with a brace. I
hung my great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excellent
weapon of defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself as any
knight-errant that ever handled a sword and spear. I
took my perspective glass, and went up the fide of the
hill, to fee what I could discover; and 1 perceived
very soon,by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon the three poor human bodies, a thing which
by thi| time I had observed was very common with
them. From hence I also remarked, that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came very close to the iea. And
then it was my foul was filled with indignation and
abhorrence of such inhuman wretches, that put a pe-
riod to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before. But descend-
ing from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and
kill them all; alking him again in the same breath if
lie would stand by me? When by this time being re-
covered from his fright, and his spirits much cheered
with the dl'am I had given him, he was very pleasant,"
yet seriously telling me, as he did before, " when I
bid die, he would die."
And now it was, that having fixed my resolution ,
in so strong a manner, that nothing could divelt my
breast from its uncommon fury, I immediately divided
the arms, already charged, between us. To my man
Friday I gave a pistol to stick in his girdle, with three
guns upon his shoulder, a weight two great I confess*
R03INS0N CRUSOE.
to bear 4 but what must a poor king do who had but
one soldier in the world? But to iiiow I made him
bear no more than what I would lay on myself, I stuck
the other pistol in my girdle, and the three guns up-
on my moulders, nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's burden, a small bottle of rum, which
soon was lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of ar-
mour, yet like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battle, when
the pieces were discharged. And now my orders be-
ing to be obeyed, I charged Friday to keep close behind
me, and not to stir, or shoot, or attempt any thing till
I commanded him, and in the interim, not to speak
ib much as one word. It was in this order I fetched
a compass to the right hand, of near a mile, with a
view to get over the creek within shot of them be-
sore I could be discerned, which I found by my glass
would not be dissicult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of man,
even in our greatest fury and strongest inclination!
For while I was taking this march, my resolutions be-
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches; but these
reflections occurred to my thoughts, as what power
was I commissioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people who had neither done nor intended
to do me any wrong; they were innocent in particular
as to me; and their barbarous custom waS not only
their misfortune, but a sign that God had left them in
the most immense stupidity; but yet did not warrant
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his righteous judgments; that on the con-
trary, whenever he thought sit, he would take ven-
geance on them himself, and punish them in a national
way, according to' their national crimes; but this was
nothing at all to me, who had no concern with them.
Indeed myTSarrTTm-s--j^tilftjsyhhnself/because
they were his declared enemies, otmar iu; <^tro^_
tion that went to sacrifice him before; and indeed it
was lawful for him to attack them, which I could not
fay was so in respect to me. So warmly did these
things press upon my thoughts all the way I went,
that I only resolved to place myself so as to behold
their bloody entertainment, without falling upon
them, except something more than ordinary, by God's
special direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered into the
thick wood (my man Friday following me close be-
hind), when, with all possible wariness and silence, I
marched till I came to the skirt of it, on that side
which was the nearest to them; for only that one end
of the wood interposed between me and them. Upon
which I called very softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, that was just at the corner of the wood,
I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me word
if he could plainly perceive their actions; according-
ly, he did as I commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all about their
fire, eating the flefli of one of their prisoners; and
that another Jay bound upon the sand, a little distant
from them, which they designed to be their next sa-
crifice; and this, he told me, was not one oftheif
nation, but one of those very bearded men, who were
driven by a stcrm into their country, and whom he
had so often talked to me about. Yon may be sure,
that upon hearing this my foul was ready to sink with-
in me; when ascending up into a tree, I faw plainly
by my glass, a white nian, who lay upon the beach of
the sea, with his hands and feet tied with slags, or
things resembling rushes, being covered with clothes,
and seemed to be a European. From the -tree where
I took this prospect, I perceived another tree, and a-
thicket beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to them
than where I was, which, by taking a small circle.
G 3
round, I might come at unH^rT*r',ma!
~.;sv;- »—« » mot of these devourers. And
ib consideration alone, to be more perfectly reveng-
ed upon them, made me withhold my passion, though
I was enraged to the highest degree imaginable, when
going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the o-
ther tree; and then I ascended a little rising ground,
rot above eighteen yards distance from them, and
there I had a full view of these creatures, and I could
perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me not to
lose a moment's time. There were no less than nine-
teen cf these dreadful wretches set upon the ground,
close huddled together, expressing all the delight ima-
ginable at so barbarous an entertainment; and they
had just sent the other two to murder this poor un-
happy Christian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb
to their sire; for they were just then going to untie
the bands from his feet, in order for death, as fetters
are knocked off from the feet of malefactors before
they go to the place of execution. Hereupon, imme-
diately turning to my man, Now, Friday, (said 1) mind
what I say, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you fee
me do. All which he promising he would perform,
I set down one of my muskets and the fowling-piece
upon the ground, and Friday did the fame by his;
and with the other mullcet I took my aim at the sa-
vages, bidding him do the like : Are you ready ? said
I. Yes, Master, said he. Why then fire at them, said
I; and that very moment I gave fire likewise.
For my part, I killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three. You may be sure they were
in a dreadful consternation at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who yet had escaped our penetrat-
ing shot, immediately jumped upon their feet, but
were in such confusion, that they knew not which way
to run or look, not knowing from whence their de-
struction came. We then threw down our pieces and
took up others, giving a second dreadful volley; but
as they were loaded only with swan shot, or small pis-
tol bullets, we perceived only two of them fall; but
so many were wounded, that they run yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
(said I) lay down your piece and take up the mulket,
and follow me. He did so, with great courage, when
showing ourselves to the savages, wegavea great shout,
and made directly to the poor victim, who would
have been sacrificed, had not our first fire obliged
the butchers, with three others, to jump into a canoe.
By my order, Friday fired atthem,at which shot I thought
he killed them all, by reason of their falling to the bot-
tom of the boat; however he killed two, and mortally
wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the slags
that tied the hands and feet of the poor creature, and
lifting him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue,
what he was ? He answered me in Latin, Chrislianus t
'but so very weak and faint that he could scarce stand
or speak. Immediately I gave him a dram and a piece
of bread to cherish him, and alked- him what coun-
tryman he was? He said Espaniola, and then uttered
all the thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Seignior (said I, with as much Spanish as I was master
of), let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here take
this sword and pistol, and do what you can. And in-
deed he did so with such courage and intrepidity, that
he cut two of them to pieces in an instant (the sa-
vages not having the power to fly for theif lives). I
ordered Friday to run for those pieces we had left at
the tree, which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could be expected,
having twice wounded his enemy in the head, yet
G4
I
being saint, the Indian had thrown him upon the
ground, and was wresting my sword out os his hand,
which the Spaniard very wisely quitting drew out his
pistol, and snot him through the body, before I could
come near him, though I was running to his assistance.
As to Friday, he pursued the flying wretches with his
hatchet, dispatching three; but the rest were too nim-
ble for him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-
pisces, wounded two, who running into the wood,
Friday pursued and killed one; but the other, not-
withstanding his wounds, plunged himself into the
sea and swam to those two who were left in the ca-
noe, which, with one wounded, were all that escaped
out of one-and-twenty. The account is as follows:
Killed at the first shot 1
from the tree j'
Jt the second shot 2
By Friday in the boat 2
Ditto, of those first) %
wounded 5
Ditto, in the .wood l
By the Spaniard 3
Killed, or died of
their wounds 4
Escaped in the boat,~)
whereof one wound- > 4
ed, if not slain. J
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuing
them; and indeed I was no less anxious about their
escape, lest, after the news had been carried to their
people, they should return in multitudes, and destroy
us. So being resolved to pursue them, I jumped into
one of their canoes, and bid Friday to follow me ; but
no sooner was I in, when to my surprise I found
another poor creature, bound hand and foot for the
slaughter, just as the Spaniard had been, with very
little life in him. Immediately I unbound him, and.
would have helped him up, but he could neither stand
nor speak, but groaned piteously, thinking he was on-
ly unbound in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid Fri-
day speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance;
when pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch
drink a dram; which, with the joyful news he had
received, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the
boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,.
and looked more fully in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon
transports of joy; for he kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,,
danced, fung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his face and head, then fung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature;, so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to me, or
tell me what was the matter with him; but when he
came to the liberty os his speech, at last.he told me,
it was his father.;
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee the du-
tiful and tender affection this poor savage had to his
aged parent. He would sit down by him in the boat,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to
his bosom half an hour together to nourish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were stiff and
numbed with binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands; by which means, perceiving what
the cafe was, I gave him some rum, which proved of
great benefit to him. . r>
While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight, and happy it was we
did not pursue them ; for there arose from the north-
west, which continued all night long, such a violent
storm, that I could not suppose otherwise but that
they were all drowned. After this I called Friday to
me, and asked him if he had given his father any
bread i He shook his head, and laid, None, not one bit,
me eat a up all; so I gave him a cake ot bread out of
a little pouch I carried for this end. I likewise gave
him a dram for himself, and two or three bunches of.
raisins for his father. Both those he carried to him*,
for he would make him urink the drain to comiort
him. Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was^
bewitched, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; but at
his return I perceived him slacken his pace, because
he had something in his hand; and this I found to
be, as he approached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water to his father and two more cakes of bread,
which he delivered into my hands. Being very thirsty
myself, I drank some of the water, of which, when
his father had drank sussiciently, it more revived his
spirits than all the rum I had given him.
'I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to car-
ry the Spaniard one of the cakes and some water,
who was reposing himself upon a green place, under
the shade of a tree, but so weak, that though he ex-
erted himself, he could not stand upon his feet; up-
on which I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his ankles
with rum as he did his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast a wishful eye to-
wards the boat where he left his father sitting; who
suddenly disappearing, he flew like lightning to him;
and finding he only laid himself down to ease his
limbs, he returned back to me presently ; and then I
spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him, and
lead him to the boat, in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of him: Upon
which Friday made nothing to take him upon his
back, and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father ; and presently stepping out again,
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew very
hard too; and having brought them safe to the creek,
away he runs to fetch the other canoe, which he
brought to the creek almost as soon as I got to it by-
land ; when wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat. But so weak were they, that I was
forced to make a kind os hand-barrow ; and when I
came to my castle, not being willing to make an en-
trance into my wall, we made them a handsome ten^
covered with old fails and boughs of trees, making
two good beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie up-
on and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I thought
myself very great, especially considering I had three
religions in my kingdom, my man Friday being a
Protestant, his father a Pagan, and the Spaniard a
Papist; but I gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I or-
dered Friday to kill me a yearling goat, which when
he had done, I cut osf the hinder quarters and chop-
ping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it, putting
barley and rice into the broth. This I carried into
their tent, set a table, dined with them myself, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke
the language of the savages pretty well. After din-
ner I ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from
the field of battle, and the next day to bury the dead
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday inquire of his father,
whether he thought those savages had escaped the
late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether they
would not return with a power too great for us to re-
sist? He answered, that he thought it impossible they
should outlive the storm; or.if they were driven south-
wardly, they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were drowned in
the sea; and suppose they had attained their own
country, the strangeness of their bloody and fatal at-
tack, would make them tell their people, that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning, not by
the hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits (mean-
ing Friday and me), who were sent from above to de-
stroy them: And this he said he knew, because he
heard them say the same to one another. And indeed
he was in the right on it; for I have heard since, that
these four men gave out, that whoever went to tha t en-
chanted island, would bedestroyed byfirefromthegods.
Gd
No canoes appearing some time after, as I expected,
my a| prehensions ceakd; instead of which my for-
mer thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday's father assured me I should have good usage
in his country. As to the Spaniard, he told me, that
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who
had been shi| wrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions and
other necessaries. When I had asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered, that their ship
was bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havannah:
that when the ship was lost only five men perished in
the ocean* the rest, having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent. And
what do they intend to do there? said I. He repli-
ed, they had concerted measures to escape by build-
ing them a vessel, but they had neither tools nor pro-
visions; so that all their designs came to nothing.
Supposing, (said 1) I should make them a proposal,
and invite them here, would they not carry me pri-
soner to New Spain? He answered, No, for he knew
them to be such honest men as would scorn to act-
such inhuman baseness to their deliverer: That, if I
pleased he and the old savage would go over to them,
talk with them about it, and bring me an answer j
that they should all swear fidelity to me as their leader,
upon the holy sacraments; and that, for his part, he
.would not only do the fame, but stand by me to the
last drop of his blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, andtosend these two over for that purpose:
Bur when every thing was ready, the Spaniard raised
an objection which carried a great deal of weight in
it. You know Sir, (said he) that beingsome time with you%
1 cannot but be sensible of your flock of rice and corn, suf-
ficient perhaps for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently; much less to victual a ve/Jelfer
an intended voyage. Want might be as great an ceca-
Jton for them to disagree and rebel as the children of Isra-
el did again/I God himself when they wanted bread in
the wilderness : And therefore my advice is to wait ano-
ther harvest, and, in the mean time, cultivate and im-
prove some more land, whereby we may have plenty of pro-
visions, in order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard I approved of extreme-
ly; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that I esteemed
him ever after. And thus we all four went to work
upon some more land, and against seed-time we had
got so much cured and trimmed up, as was sussicient
to sow twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen
jars of rice, which was in short all the seed we had
to spare. As we were four in number,and by this time
all in good health, we feared not an hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us : And while the corn
was growing, I pitched upon some trees fit to build
us a large vessel in case the Spaniards came over;
which being marked, I ordered Friday and his father
to cut them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct the
work. 1 likewise increased my flocks of goats, by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my inclosure: Nor did I neglect the grape-
season, but cured them as usual, though I had such a
quantity now as would have filled eighty barrels with
raisins. And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till harvest
came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it so much,
that from twenty-two barrels of barley, we threshed
out two hundred and twenty, and the like quantity
of rice, sussicient to victual a ship, to carry me and all
the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered by a
sussicient stock of provision, 1 sent my two ambassa-
dors over to the main land, with a regal authority to
administer the oaths of allegiance and fidelity, and
have an instrument signed under their hands, though
I never asked whether they had pen, ink, or paper;
when giving each of them a musket, eight charges
of powder and ball, and provision enough for eight
days, they failed away with a fair gale, on a day when
the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head, but im-
patient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which
was ushered in by my man's coming running to me,
and calling aloud, Master, master, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any danger,
out I jumps from my bed, puts on my clothes, and
hurries through my little grove; when looking towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half
distant, standing in for the shore, with the wind fair.
I beheld they did not come from the side where the
land lay on, but from the southermost end of the
island: So these being none of the people we wanted, I
ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as 1 came down
from the mountain, which with my ladder I now as-
cended, in order to discover more fuliy what they
were: And now, with the help of my perspective glass,
I plainly perceived an English ship, which 1 concluded
it to be by the fashion of its long-boat, and which fiU-
ed me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
I cannot tell how to describe; and yet sorrfe secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from I kWw not
what cause, as though I had reason to be upornny
guard. And indeed i would have no man contemn the
secret hints and intimations of danger, which very of-
ten are given, when he may imagine there is no possi-
bility of their being real; for had I not been warned
by this silent admonition, I had been in a worse situ-
ation than- before, and perhaps inevitably ruined.
Not long it was before I perceived the boat to approach
she shore, as though they looked for a place where
they mightconvenientlyland ; and at last they ran their
boat on shore upon the beach, about half a mile's dis-
I59
tance, which proved so muchthehappier for me; since
if they had come into the creek, they had landed just
at my door, and might not only have forced me out
of my castle,but plundered meof alllhad in the world.
Now I was fully convinced they were all Englishmen,
three of whom were unarmed and bound ; when im-
mediately the first four or five leaped on shore, and
took those three out of the boat as prisoners; one of
whom I could perceive used the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, affliction, and desparr, while the o-
thers.in a lesser degree, showed abundance os concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday (who was be-
low} to ascend the mountain, and likewise view this
sight. 0 Matter, (soys he to me) you see English mans
eat prisoners, as well as savage mam. And do you think
they will eat them, Friday? said T. l~es, (said Fri-
day) they eat all up. No, no, (said 1) Friday, I am much
more concerned leff they murder them; but as for
eating them up, that I am sure they never will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and savage with me, but al-
so that I could not come within shot of them unper-
ceived, (they having no fire-arms among them) and
save these three men, whom I thought they were go-
ing to kill with their swords. But some comfort it
was to me, that I perceived they were set-at liberty
to go where they pleased, the rascally seamen scatter-
ing about as though they had a mind to fee the
place : And so long did they negligently ramble, that
the tide had ebbed so low as to leave the boat a-
ground. Nor were the t*o men that were in her
more circumspect, for having drank a little too much
liquor, they feli fast asleep ; but one of them waking
before the other, and pcrceiving the boat too fast a-
ground for his, strength to move it, he hallooed out
to the rest, who made all possible expedition to come
to him': But as Providence ordered it, all their force
was inesfectual to launch her, when I could hea?
them speak one to another, Why let her alone, Jack,
can't ye, she'd float next tide »' by which words I was
fully convinced that they were my own countrymen.
All this while I lay very quiet, as being fully sensible,
it could be no less than ten hours before the boat
would be afloat, and then it would be so dark, as that
they could not easily perceive me, by which means I
should be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: Not bat that I prepared for
my defence; yet as I had now another sort of ene-
mies to combat with, I acted with more caution. I:
took two fusees on my shoulders, and gave Friday
three muskets; besides, my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially wh"en two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hang-
ing by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark ; but it being now two o'clock, in the
very heat of the day, the sailors were all straggling in-
to the woods, and undoubtedly were lain down to
fleep. The three poor distressed creatures, too anxi-
ous to get any repose, were however seated under
the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of a mile
from me: Upon which, without any more ado, I
approached towards them, with my man following
behind me, and before I was perceived, I called a-
loud to them in Spanish, What are ye, Gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great confusion,
andbeholding the strange figure I made, they returned
no answer, but seemed as if they would fly from me.
Gentlemen, (said I, in English) don't be afraid: Perhaps
you have a friend nearer you than you expetJ. He must
be from Heaven, (said one of them gravely, and pulling
off his hat) for we are past all help in this world. All
help is from Heaven, (said I); but, Sir, as J have per*
ceived every atlion between you and these brutes, ftnet
your landing, only inform me how to ajjist yout and I will'
do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man (said he, in melt-
ing Wars), are you of human kind, or an angel? Sir,
(said I) my poor habit may tell you I am a man, and an
Englishman, willing to ajjijl you, having but this ser-
vant only : Here are arms and ammunition: Tell freely
your condition, can we save you? The story, (said he)
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near.
But, Sir, I was master of that ship; my men have
mutinied, and it is a favour they have put my mate,
this passenger, and me, on shore, without murdering
us, though we expect nothing but to perish here. Ar$
your enemies gone? said I. No, (replied he, point-
ing to a thicket), there they lie; while my heart trem-
bles, lest having seen and heard us, they should mur-
der us al^. Have they fire-arms? said I. They have
but two pieces, (said he) one of which is left in the
boat: He also told me there were two enormous vil-
lains among them, that were the authors of this mu-
tiny, who, if they were killed or seized, might in-
duce the rest to return to their obedience. Well,
well, (said I) let us retire farther under the covering
of the woods; and there it was I made these condi-
tions with him:
I. That while they staid in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority, but be entirely con-
formable to my orders, and return me the arms
which I should put into their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Friday and me our passage gratis to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sussicient, advising them to sire upon them as they
lay. The captain modestly said, That he was sorry to
kill them, though on the other'hand, to let these vil-
lains escape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the ruin of us all, should they bring the
ship's company upon us. Well, (said he) do as you
think fit: And so accordingly I fired, killing one of
the captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the o-
ther, who eagerly called for assistance; but the cap-
tain (who had reserved his piece) coming up to him,
Sirrah, (said he) it is too late to call for ajstjlance, you
Jhould rather cry to God to pardon your villany; so
knocked him down with the stock of his gun : Three
others were also slightly wounded, who at my ap-
proach cried out for mercy. This the captain grant-
ed, upon condition that they would swear to be true
to him in recovering the ship* which they solemnly
did; however I obliged the captain to keep them
bound. After which I sent Friday and the captain's
mate to secure the boat, and bring away the oars and
fails; when at their return, three men coming back,
and feeing their late distressed captain, now their
conqueror, submitted to be bound also. Agd then it
was, that, having more liberty, I related the adven-
tures of my whole life, which he hear4 with a serious
and wonderful attention. After this, I carried him
and his two men into my little fortified castle, showed
them all my conveniencies, and refreshed them with
such provisions as I could afford. When this was over,
we began to consider about regaining the ship. He said
that there were 26 hands on board, who knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy
and mutiny, would grow so very hardened, that it
would be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference indeed ; but
something we did resolve on, and immediately put in
execution: For we heaved the boat upon the beach
so high, that she could not shoot off at high-water
1 mark, and broke a hole in her, not easily to be stop-
ped; and so all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged them to
fend another boat ashore, with ten men armed,
whose faces the captain plainly 'descried, the boat-
swain being the chief ossicer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage
(for I had perceived he was in concern), in the mean
while securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinel; but two others we took
into our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle. When the sailors land-
ed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they not
only hallooed, but fired for their companions to hear,
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered; then they made as if they would re-
turn to the ship. I could perceive the captain's coun-
tenance change at this, till of a sudden three men
were ordered to look after the boat, while the other
seven leaped .on shore, in order to search for their
companions: And indeed they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence they
ceuld fee a great way into the^ woods, and there
shouting and hallooing till tired and weary, at length
seated themselves under\ a spreading tree. My opi-
nion was, that nothing could be done till night, when
I might use some artifice to get them out of the boat:
But of a sudden they all started up, and made to the
sea-side : Hereupon I ordered Friday and the captain's
mate to go over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so, decoying them into the woods, come
round to me again. And this indeed had its effect;
for they followed the noise, till coming westward to
the creek, they called for their boat to carry them o-
ver, taking one of the men o\lt of her, and leaving
two to look after her, having fastened her to the
stump of a little tree on shore. Hereupon immediate-
ly the captain and our party passing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised them both, by the captain's
knocking down one, and ordering the other to sur-
render on pain of death, and who, being the honest-
est os them all, sincerely joined with us. By this
time it was pretty late, when the rest returning to
their boat, which they found a-ground in the creek,
the tide out, and the men gone, they ran about,
wringing their hands, crying it was an enchanted
island, and that they should be all murdered by spi-
rits or devils. My men would willingly have fallen
upon them, but I would not agree to hazard any of
our party. But to be more certain, Friday and the
captain crawled upon their hands and feet as near as
possible: And when the boatswain approached in
iight, so eager was the captain, that he sired and kill-
ed him on the spot. Friday wounded the next man,
and the third ran away. Hereupon I advanced with
my whole army, and, it being dark, I ordered the
men whom we had surprised with the boat to call
them by their names, and to parley with them. Ac-
cordingly he called aloud, Tom Smith !. Tom Smith!
He answered, Who's that, Robinson? The other
answered, For God's fake, Tom,surrender immediately,
er you are all dead men. Who must we surrender
to r says Smith. To our captain and fifty men herey
ivho have taken me prisoner, wounded Will. Fryes, and
killed the boatswain. Shall we have quarters then?
said he. Hereupon the captain calls cut, Tou, Smith*
you know my voice ;surrender immediately, and youshall
all have your lives granted, except Will. Atkins. Here-
upon Atkins cried out, What have I done, captain,
more than the resl, who have been as bad as me? But
that was a lie, for he was the person that laid hold
of him, and bound him. However, he was ordered
to submit to the Governor's mercy, for such was i
called. And so, laying down their arms, we bound
them all, and seized on their boat.
After this the captain expostulated with them, tell-
ing them, that the Governor was an Englishman, who.
might execute them there; but he thought they would
be sent to England, except Will. Atkins, who was or-
dered to prepare for death next morning. Hereupon
Atkins implored the captain to intercede for his life,
and the rest begged they might not be sent to Eng-
land. Thus answered our project for seizing the ship.
For sending Atkins, and two os the worst,fall bound, tox
the cave, and the rest being committed to my bower.
I sent the captain, to treat with them, in the Gover-
nor's name, osfering them pardon, if they would assist
him in recovering the ship. Upon which they all pro-
mised to stand by him till the last drop of their blood;
and whoever acted treacherously should be hanged in
chains upon the beach. They were all released on
these assurances; and then the captain repaired the
other boat, making his passenger captain of her, with
four men well armed; while his mate himself, and five
men more, went in the other. By midnight they
came within call of the ship, when the captain order-
ed Robinson to hale her, and tell them that, with great
dissiculty, they had sound the men at last. But while
they were discoursing, the captain, his mate, and the
rest entered, and knocked down the second mate and
carpenter, secured those that were upon deck, by put-
ting them under hatches, while the other boat's crew
entered and secured the forecastle; they then broke into
the round-house, where the mate, after some resist-
ance, mot the pirate captain through the head; up-
on which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joyful signal
was fired, which I heard with the greatest joy imagin-
able : Nor was it long before he brought the ship
to an anchor at the creek's mouth, when coming to
me unawares, There, (fays he) my dearesi friend and
deliverer, there is yourship, and we are your servants;
a comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in his
arms, while, with gratitude to Heaven, we were
tenderly embracing each other.
Nothingnow remained, but to consult what we should
do with the prisoners, whom he thought it was not
fafe to take on board. Hereupon, concerting with
the captain, I dressed myself in one of his suits, and
fending for them, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they would tarry
there, their lives should be spared; if not, they should
be hanged at the first port we came to. They agreed to
stay. Hereupon I told them my whole story, char-
ging them to be kind to the Spaniards that were ex-
pected, gave them all my arms, and informing them of
every thir;g necessary for their subsistence, I .and my
man Friday went on board. But the next morning
two of the men came swimming to the ship's side, de-
siring the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them afterwards, complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upon which I
prevailed with the captain to take them in, and be-
ing severely whipped and pickled, they proved more
honest for the future. And so I bid farewell to this
island, carrying along with me my money, parrot, um-
brella, and goat-skin cap, setting sail Dec. 12. 1686,
after twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen
days residence, that fame day and month that I escap-
ed from Sallee, landing in England June 11. 1687,
after thirty-five years absence from my own country,
which rendered me altogether a stranger there.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon after, I went down to Yorkshire, where
all my family were expired, except two sisters, and
as many of one of my brother's children. I found no
provision had been made for 'me, they concluding I
had been long since dead; so that I was but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a great
kindness, by his report to the owners, how I had de-
livered their ship on the desolate island; upon which
they made me a present of 200I. Sterling. I next went
to Lisbon, taking my man Friday with me, and ar-
riving there in April, I met the Portuguese captain,
who took me 011 board on the African coast; but be-
ing ancient, he had left off the sea, and resigned all
his business to his son, who followed the Brasil trade.
So altered both of us were, that we did not know
each other at first, till I discovered myself more fully
to him. After a few embraces, I began to inquire of
my concerns, and theu the old gentleman told me, that
it was nine years fince he had been at Brasil, where
my partner was then living, but my trustees were
both dead; that it was his belief 1 should have a
goad account of the product os my plantation; that
the imagination of my being lost, had obliged my
trustees to give an estimate of my share to the pro-
curator-fiscal, who, in case of my not returning, had
given one third to the King, and the rest to the
monastery of St Augustine; but if I put in my claim, or
any one for me, it would be returned, except the year-
ly product, which was given to the poor. I then de-
sired him to tell me, what improvement he thought
had been made of my plantation; and whether he ima-
gined it wa's worth my while to look after it? He an-
swered, he did not know how much it was improved,
but this he was certain of, that my partner was grown
vastly rich upon his half of it; and that he had been
informed, that the King had 200 moidores per annum
for his third part. He added, that the survivors of
my trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name being
registered in the country, by which means in-Jisputably
I should recover considerable sums of money. But,
(answered I) how could my trustees dispose of my ef-
fects, when I made you only my heir? This, (he laid)
was true, but there being no assidavit made of my
death, h£ cotild not act as an executor. However, he
had ordered his son (then at Brasil) to act by pro-
curation upon my account,and he had taken possession
of my sugar-house, having accounted himsels for eight
years with my partner and trustees for the profits, of
which he would give me a very good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully in a
few days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold,over and above what had been lost at sea,
after I had left the place. And then herecounted tome
what misfortunes he had gone through, which forced
my money out of his hands, to buy part in a new ship:
But (says he)^wstall not want, take ibis, and when my
son returns, every farthing shall be paid you. Upon
which he put into my hand a purse of 150 moidores
in gold, as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship in which his son was, and which he
osfered as security for the remainder. But really,
when I saw so much goodness, generosity, tenderness,
and real honesty, I had not the heart to accept it, for
fear he should straiten himself on my account. It is
true, (said he) it may be so; but the money is yours, mt
mine, and you may have the greatest occasion for it.
However, I returned fifty of them, promising to give
him the other hundred' when I got my esfects in my
hands, saying I designed to go myself for that purpose.
But he told me he could save me the trouble; and
so caused me to enter my name with a public notary,
as likewise my afsidavit, with a procuration assixed to
it; and he advised me to send it in a letter to one of
his acquaintance, a merchant at Brasil; and indeed
nothing could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months time I had a very faithful
account of all my esfects, what sums of money were
raised, what expended, 'and what remained for my
use: In a word, I found myself worth 5000I. Ster-
ling, and ioool. per annum. Nor was this all, for my
partner congratulated me upon my being alive, telling
me how much my plantation was improved, what ne-
gros were at work, and how many Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation, de-
siring me to accept kindly some presents he had sent
me, which I found showed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
faithful captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores; and not only forgiving him all he owed me, I
allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to England, I returned letters of^ thanks to the
Prior of St Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the captain's
advice, I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England: When, as it hap-
pened, I got a young English gentleman, a merchant's
son at Lisbon, to accompany me, together with two
English and two Portuguese gentlemen ; so that with
a Portuguese servant,- an English sailor, and my man
Friday, there were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when the summer decaying, we hasted to
Navarre, where we were informed that there was
scarcely any passing, by reason.of the prodigious quan-
tity of snow; so that we were obliged to abide near
twenty days at Pampeluna, and at last to take a guide
toconductus safe towardsThoulouse. And nowtwelve
other gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away out
guide led us by the frightful mountains, and through
so many intricate mazes and windings, that we in-
sensibly past them, which, as we travelled along,
ushered us into the prospect of the fruitful and charm-
ing provinces of Languedoc and Gascogne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical and
comical. First, Our guide was encountered by three
wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his horse,
and wounded him in three places: Upon which my
man riding up to his assistance, shot one of them dead,
on which the others ran into the woods. But the plea-
fantest adventure was, to fee my man attack the bear.
This creature, if let alone, will never meddle with
you, and this my man Friday very well knew, and
so begging leave of me in broken Englisli, he told us,
He would make good laugh. Why, you silly fool, (said I)
he'll eat you up at a mouthful. Eatee me up! (replied
he) ntf eatee him, and make much good laugh. Upon
which, pulling off his boots, he claps on his pumps,
and running after the monstrous beast, he called out
that he wanted to speak with him; and then throwing
stones on purpose tp incense him, the beast turns about
in a fury, and with prodigious strides, shusfles after
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
him. But though he could not keep pace with Friday.,
who made up to us as-it were for help, yet, beinjt an-
gry, You dog, (said I) immediately take horse, and let ut
sJjoot the creature. But he cried, Dear Master, noshoott
me make pit much laugh. And' so he turned about,
making signs to follow, while the bear ran after him,
till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a minute,
leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor did the bear
make any dissiculty of it, but, notwithstanding his
bulk, ascended like a'eat. You must think I was
not a little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till we
rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted on the
oak; on the beginning of the same branch to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear durst
not come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now, Master,
me make much laugh, me make de bear dance. Upon
which he fell a shaking* the bough, which made the
creature look behind him to-see how he could retreat.
Then, as if the be;\r had understood his stammering
English, Why you not come farther, Mr: Bear? said he.
Pray, Mr. Bear, come farther: And then indeed we
all burst into laughter, especially when we perceived
Friday' drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving
the beast to make thebast of his way clown the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to kill v
him, Friday cried out,- O dear, Master, noshwt; me
shoot by and by; when taking up the gun,, Me not shoot
yet, (said he) me make tnce more much laugh. And ac-
cordingly he was as good as his word, for the crea-
ture descending backwards from the tree very leisurely,'
before he could lay one'foot on theground, Friday
shot him through the ear stone-dead, and looking to
see if we were pleased, burst out into a hearty laugh,
saying, So we kill bear in my country; not with gun,
but much long arrow. Thus ended our diversion, to
our great latisfaction, especially in a place where the
terrible howlings struck us with ciuttirrttaj terror. But
17I
the snows now growing very deep, particularly on the
mountains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to
seek for sustenance in the villages, where coming by
surprise on the country people, they killed several of
them, besides a great number of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous
place to pass by; and if there were any more wolves
in the country, there we should find them. This was
a small plain, encompassed with woods, to get through
a long lane, to the village where we were to lodge.
When we entered the wood the fun was within half
an hour of setting; and a little after it was set, we came
into the plain, which was not above two furlongs over,
and then we saw five great wolves cross the road,
without taking notice of us, and so swift as though they
were pursuing after their prey. Hereupon our guide,
believing there were more coming, desired us to be
upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes were very
circumspect, till about a league farther we faw a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
case. My man Friday fain would have sired at them,
but I would not permit him: Nor had we gone half
over the plain, till we heard dreadful howlings in a
wood on our left, when presently we faw an hundred
come up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner: Andthenlorderedthateveryother
man should fire; that those who did not might be ready
to give a second volley, should they advance upon us;
and then every man to make use of his pistols. "J3ut
there was no necessity for this; for the enemy being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire; four of them
were shot dead, and several others being wounded,
went bleeding away, as we could very plainly discover
by the snow. And now remembering what had beers
often told me, that such was the majesty of a man's
voice, as to strike terror even into the fiercest crea-
tures, I ordered all our companions to halloo as loud
as possible: And in this notion I was not altogether
mistaken; for they immediately turned about upon'
the first halloo, and began to retire: Upon which,
ordering a second volley in their rear, they galloped
into the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way : But we had not rode far before we were obliged
to put ourselves in a posture of defence as before,
being alarmed with a very dreadful noise-in the fame
.wood on our left hand, the fame way as we were to
pass, only that it was at some distance from us. By
this time the darksome clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the night growing very dusky, made
it so much the more to our disadvantage: But the
noise still increasing, we were sully assured, that it
was the howling and yelling of those ravenous crea-
tures: When presently three troops of wolves, on our
front, appeared to our fight, as though a great num-
ber of them had a design to surround us, and de-
vour us in spite of sate. But as they did not fall upon
us immediately, we proceeded on our journey in the
swiftest manner the roads would permit our horses,
which was only a large trot. It was in this manner
we travelled, till such time as we discovered another
wood, and had the prospect of its entrance, through
which we were to pass at the farthest side of the plain.
But surely none can express the terror we were in,
when approaching the lane, we perceived a confused
number of the fiercest wolves standing, and as it were
guarding its entrance. Nor were we long in this a-
mazement, before another occasion of horror present-
ed itself: For suddenly we heard the report of a gun
at.another opening into the wood; and looking that
way, out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying
with the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixteen
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to devour
the poor creature: And unquestionably they did so,
after they had run him down, not being able to hold
out that swiftness with which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcases of two
men and another horse, mangled and torn by these
devouring wolves: And undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun which we had
heard, for the piece lay by him; but alas! most of
the upper part of his body and his head were en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or retreat,
we could 'not tell; but it was not long before the
wolves themselves made us come to a resolution: For
such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom ex-
pected their prey, that were our bodies to be divided
among them, there would not be half a mouthful a-
piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us, that
but a little way from the entrance, there lay some very
• large timber trees, which I supposed had been cut
down and laid there for sale, among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us for a breast-work;
when desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangle,
or three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre,
the only place where we could preserve them.'
Never certainly was there a more furious charge than
what the wolves made upon us in this place ; and the
sight of the horses, which was the principal thing they
aimed at, provoked their hunger, and added to their
natural fierceness. They'came on us with a molt
dreadful noise, that made the woods ring again, and
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I ordered
every other man to fire as before directed; and indeed
so well did they take their aim, that they killed several
of the wolves at the first volley, but still we were o-
bliged to keep a continual firing, by reason they came
on like devils, pushing one another with the great-
est fury. But our second volley something abated.
their courage; when stopping a little, we hoped they
would have made the best of their way; however it
did not prove so, for others made a new attempt up-
on us: And though in four firings we killed seven-
teen or eighteen of them, laming twice as many, yet
ihey came on several times successively, as though
they valued not their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too suddenly:
And therefore called my other servant, and giving him
a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train quite a-
long the timber, which he did, while Friday was char-
ging my fusee and his own with the greatest dexte-
rity. By this time the wolves comitig up the tim-
ber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a discharged
pistol close on the powder. This so scorched and ter-
rified them, that some fell down, and others jump-
ed in among us,with the strength and terror of the
slame; but these we immediately dispatched, when ail
the rest, frightened with the light, which the darksome
night caused to appear more dreadful, began at length
to retire: Upon which, ordering oHr last pistols to
be fired at once, giving at the fame time a great
shout, the wolves were obliged to have recourse to
their swiftness and turned tail; and then we sallied
out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces
, with our swords, which obliged them to howl lament-
ably, to the terror of their fellow devourers, who
resigned to us the field as victorious conquerors.
And indeed, I question whether Alexander, King of
Macedon, in any of his conquests, had more occasion
for triumph than we had; for he was but attacked
by numerous armies of soldiers; whereas cur little
army was obliged to combat a legion of devils, as it
were, worse than cannibals, who, had they slain us,
would have sacrificed us the fame moment, to satis-
fy their voracious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives from
their fury. We still had a league to go farther,
when, as we went, our ears were saluted with their
inost unwelcome howlings, expecting every moment
another attack. But, in an hour's time, we arrived
safe at the town where we were to lodge; and here
we found the place strictly guarded, and all in terrible
confusion, as well they might, for fear of the bears
and wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
'upon their cattie and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, by reason the
other fell very bad of his wounds which he had re-
ceived, as before-mentioned. After we had reached
Thoulouse, we came into a warm, pleasant, and fruit-
ful country, not infested with wolves, nor ^ny fort
bf ravenous creatures: And when we told our story
there, they much blamed our guide, for conducting
to through the forest at the foot of the mountains,
arid in such a severe season, when the snow obliged
"them to seek for shelter in the woods. When we
informed them in what manner we placed ourselves,
«hd the horses in the centre, then they exceedingly
reprehended us,, 'and told us, it was an hundred to
one but we had all been destroyed; for that it was
the fight of the horses, their so much desired prey,
'made the wolves more ragingly furious than they
would have been ; which was evident, by their being
at other times really afraid of a gun; but then, being
exceedingly hungry, and furious upon that account,
their1 eagerness to come at the horses made them in-
sensible of their danger; and that if we had not by
a continual sire, and at last by the cunning strata-
gem of the train -of powder, got the power over them,
it had been great odds if their number had not over-
powered us : Besides, it was a great mercy we alight-
'ed from our horses, and fought them with that cou-
rage and conduct, which, had we failed to do, every
man of us, with our beasts, had been devoured. And
indeed this was nothing but the truth; for never in
H4
my life was I so sensible of danger, as when 300 devils
came roaring upon us; to shun whose unwelcome
company, if I was sure to meet a storm every week,
I would rather go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through France to take notice of, since other travel-
lers of greater learning and ingenuity have given a
more ample account than my pen is able to set forth.
From Thoulouse I travelled to Paris, from thence to
Calais, where I took shipping, and landed at Dover
the 14th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon dis-
covered my new-found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The good
ancient widow, my only privy counsellor, thought
no pains or care too great to procure my advantage;
nor had I ever occasion to blame her fidelity, which
drew from me an ample reward. I was for leaving
my effects in her hands, intending to set out for
Lisbon, and so to the Brasils; but as in the desolate
island I had some doubts about the Romish religion,
so I knew there was little encouragement to settle
there, unless I would apostatise from the orthodox
faith, or live in continual fear of the inquisition.
Upon this account I resolved to sell my plantation,
and for that intent I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who returned me an answer, to my great satisfaction,
which was, that he could readily fell it there : How-
ever, if I thought it convenient to give him liberty
to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the sur-
vivors ofmy trustees, residing at the Brasils, who con-
sequently understood its intrinsic value, having lived
jult upon the spot, and who I was sensible were very
rich, and therefore might be the more willing to pur-
chase it; he did not in the least doubt,but I should make
4000 or 5000 pieces of eight more of it, than I should
do if I disposed of it in any other manner whatsoevre.
You may be sore I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I sent
him an order to osfer it unto them, which he accord-
ingly did; so that about eight months after, the ship
being in that time returned, he gave me a satisfactory
account that they not only willingly accepted the osfer,
but that they had also remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight to a correspondent of their own at
Lisbon, in order to pay for the purchase.'
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument of
sale, according to form, which they had sent from
Lisbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores per annum., which
I had allowed him during life, as also fifty to his son
during life, according to my faithful promise, which
the plantation was to make good-as rent-charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the first part of my life, so remarkable for the
many peculiar providences that attended it, floating
in an ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of
adversity and prosperity, beginning fooliihly, and yet
ending happily; methinks, now 1 am come to a safe-
and pleasant haven, it is time to cast out my anchor,,
and, laying up my vessel, bid (for a while) adieu to
foreign adventures. I had no other concerns to look,
after, but the care of my brother's two sons, which,,
with the good widow's persuasions, obliged me to
continue at home seven years. One of these children^
I bred up a gentleman, and the other an experienced,
failor, remarkable for his courage and bravery. Be-
sides this, I married a- virtuous young gentlewoman,-
of a very good family, by whom I had two sons and:
one daughter. But my dear and tender wife leaving
this earthly stage (as you will hear in the second part
of my life), which rending my soul as it were asun-
der, my native country became as it were tiresome
to. me: And my nephew happening to come from,!
sea, templed me to venture another voyage to the
East Indies, which I did in the year 1694, at which
time.. I visited my island, and informed myself of
every thing that happened since my departure.
One might reasonably imagine, that what I had suf-
fered, together with an advanced age, and the fear
of losing not only what I had gotten, but my life as-
so, might have choked up all the seeds of youthful
ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period to
my wandering inclinations. But as nothing but death
can fully allay the active part of my life, no less re-
markable for the many various contingencies of it,
you will next perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my s uccessors the Spaniards, had an account
of the usage they met with from the Englishmen,
agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separating, till
at last they were subjected to the Spaniards, who yet
used them very honourahly; together with the won-
derful and successful battles over the Indians, who
invaded, and thought to have conquered the island,
but were repelled by their invincible courage and
bravery, having taken eleven men and five women
prisoners; by which, at my return, I found about
twenty young children on my little kingdom. Here
I staid twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary
things, as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the
island into pans, reserving the whole property to
myself. Nor will you be insensible, by the account of
these things, of stveral new adventures I have been
engaged in, the battles I have fought, and the deli-
verances I have met with, and while in the surprising
relation of such remarkable occurrences, I shall de-
scribe many of God's kindest providences to me in
particular, no less conspicuous in the fame goodness,
power, and majesty of our Creator, shown, one way
or other, over the face of the earth, if duly adverted
to.
The further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, where- -
in are cotttained several ftrange and surprising ac-
counts of his travels, and mqfl remarkable transac-
tions, both by sea and land. With his wonderful vi-
sion of the Angelic World.
Ws IEN we consider the puissant force of na-
ture, and what mighty influence it has many
times over the temper of the mind; it will be no such
great wonder to think that my powerful reason should
be overcome by a much stronger inclination. My late
acquired kingdom ran continually in my thoughts all
the day, and I dreamt of it in the night; nay, I
made it the continual subject of my talk, even to im-
pertinence, when I was awake. I had such vapours
in my head, that I actually supposed myself at my
castle; that I not only perceived Friday's father, the
old Spaniard, and the wicked sailors, but that I talk-
ed and discoursed with them about their manner of
living; that I heard those things related to me which
I found afterwards to be too true; and that I exe-
cuted my judgments with the greatest severity upon
the offenders. And indeed this anticipating all the
pleasing joys of my life, scarcely afforded me one
pleasant hour; my dear and tender wife could not
but take notice of it, which drew these affectionate
speeches from her; My dear, (said she) I am really
persuaded tbat some secret impulse from heaven occasions
iu you a determination to fee the island again': Nor am
I less sensible, but your being engaged to me and these
dear children, is the only hinderance of your departure.
-I know, my dear, if I was in the grave, you would mt
'long continue at home: Prevent not your happiness upen
my account, whose only comfort centres in you. All that
I can objetl is, that such an hazardous-undertaking is no
Way consistent with a person of your years; but if you are
resolved to go, (added she, weeping) only permit me #*
bear you company, and that is all that l-de/ire.
H 6
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent, and yet most powerful charms, brought me
insensibly into my right understanding: And when I
considered all the transactions of my life, and parti-
. cularly my new engagement; that I had two chil-
dren already born, and my wife big of a third; and
that 1 had no occasion to seek for more riches, who
already was blessed with sussiciency; with much strug-
gling, I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to ap-
ply myself to some business or other, which might put
a period to such wandering inclinations. Hereupon I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, with a
resolution to move thither: Upon this there was a
pretty convenient house, surrounded with land, very
capable of improvement, which suited my temper,
as to planting, managing, and cultivating. Nor was I
long before I entered upon my new settlement, hav-
ing bought ploughs, harrows, carts, waggons, horses,
cows and sheep; so that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and was as happy in my retirement as the
greatest monarch in the world. And what made me
think my happiness the greater was, that I was in
that middle state of life which my father had so often
recommended, much resembling the felicity of a rural
retirement, which is elegantly described by the poet
in these lines: i
Free from all vices, free from care;,
Age has no pain, aud youth no snar^.
But in tlie midst of this my happiness, I was sud-
denly plunged into the greatest sorrows that I could
possibly endure: For, when I least expected it, my
dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the ir-
resistible power, os death, leaving this transitory life
for a better. It is 'impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
]* test breath shall record. Her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the im-
I /
ROBINSOH CRUSOE. i8r
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mother:
In a word, she was the spirit of all my asfairs, and
the centre of my enterprises. But now, since the
cruel hand of d^th had closed my dearest's eyes, I
seemed in my thoughts a stranger to the world; my
privy counsellor being gone,- I was like a ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy world,
one part labouring for bread, and the other squan-
dering away their estates, this put me in mind how
I had lived in my little kingdom, where both reason
and religion dictated to me, that there was some-
thing that certainly was the reason and end of life,
which was far superior to what could be hoped for
on this side the grave. My country delights were
now as insipid and dull, as music or science to those
who have neither taste nor ingenuity. In short, re-
solving to leave off house-keeping, I left my farm,
and in a few months returned to London.
But neither could that great city, so famous for
its variety of entertainment, afford me any agree-
able delight: A state of idleness I found to be the
very dregs of life, and most hurtful to body and
foul. It was now the beginning of the year 1694,
at which time my nephew (who, as I before observed,
had been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be.
captain of a ship) was returned from a short voyage
to Bilboa, the first he had made in that station. He
comes to me one morning, telling me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had proposed to him.
to go a voyage for them, to the East Indies and Chi-
na, in the manner of private traders: And now,
Uncle, (said he) if you'll accompany me thither, I'll en-
gage to land you upon your old island, to visit the Jlate ef
your little kingdom.
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed
to get a patent for its possession, and then to fill it
'with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked stedfastly on him, What devil, or spirit,
(said I)sent you with this unlucky errand? He started
at first, but recovering himself, when he perceived
I was not offended, Sir, (replied he) what I have
proposed cannot, I hope, be styled unlucky, since
certainly you must be cfesirous to fee your little ter-
ritory, where you feigned with more content than
any of your brother kings in the universe. Nephew,
(said I) if you will leave me there, and call for me
as you come back, I care not if I give my consent;
But he answered, that the merchants would not al-
low their vessel, loaden with an infinite value, to re-
turn there again, which was a month's fail out of the
way; besides, Sir, (said he) if I should miscarry, was
your request granted, why then you would be locked'
up as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
'was, to carry -a framed sloop on board, ready to
be set up in the island, by the assistance of some
carpenters, whom we should carry with us, that
might be fitted in a few days to go to sea. I was
not long in forming my resolution, which overswayed
my good friend the widow's persuasions, and the na-
tural affection I bore to my young children. I made
my will, and settled my estate in such a manner
that I was perfectly sure that my poor infants would
have justice done them. The good widow not only
undertook to make provision for my voyage, but al-
so took the charge of my domestic affairs, and to
provide for my children's education; and indeed no
mother could take more care, or understood that of-
sice better; for which I lived to reward, and return
her my hearty thanks.
The beginning of January 1694-5, mY nephew-
being ready to fail, I and Friday went on board ki
the Downs on the 8th, having, beside that sloop al-
ready mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my
I83
new colony. Fir/I, I had some servants, whom I
proposed to leave there, as inhabitants, or to work
while I staid there, as they should appear willing:
There were two carpenters, a smith, and a very in-
genious fellow who was Jack of all trades; for he
was not only a cooper by trade, but also he was dex-
terous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn,
likewise a good turner, and a good pot-maker. I
also carried a tailor, who consented to stay in my
plantation,_and proved a most necessary fellow in the
island. As to my cargo, it consisted of a sufficient
quantity of linen, and English stuffs, for clothing
the Spaniards that I expected to find there; as like-
wise gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with
beds, bedding., and household stuff, especially kit-
chen utensils, with pots, and kettles, pewter, brass,
&c. also nails, tools of all sorts, staples, hooks,
hinges, and -.ill other things necessary; all which, I
think, cost me about three hundred pounds. Nor
was this all; for I carried an hundred spare-arms,
muskets and fusees, besides some pistols, a considerable
quantity of several sorts of shot, two brass cannon,
besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part for some
pikes and halberts. I made my nephew take with
us two small quarter-deck guns, more than he had
occasion for in his ship, to leave behind, if there
was a necessity; that so we might build a fort there,
and man it against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea ; and though I cannot say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to r«it in at Galway in Ireland,
where we lay wind-bound two-and-twenty days. Here
indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we added
to our ship's stores, by taking in several live hogs,
two cows and calves, which I then resolved to put
on shore in my island, if our necessities did not call
for them. On the 5th of February we-seiled from
ROBINSOX CRUSOE.
Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for some
days; and I think it was about the 20th of the fame
month, late in the evening, when the mate informed
us, that he saw a slash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and when he was speaking, a boy came in, and told
us, that the boatswain had heard another. Upon
which we all ran to the quarter-deck, from whence
in a few moments we perceived a terrible fire at a
distance. We had immediately recourse to our reck-
onings, in which we were all of opinion, that there
could be no land that way, it appearing to be at N.
N. W. Hereupon we concluded that some ship had
taken fire at sea, and that it could not be far off, by
the report of the guns which we had heard. We
made up directly to it, and in half an hour's time,
the wind being fair, we could plainly perceive a great
ship on fire in the middle of the sea. Touched with
this unhappy disaster, and considering my former
circumstances, when the Portuguese captain took me
up, I immediately ordered five guns to be fired, that
the poor creatures, not seeing us, it being dark,
(though we could perceive their slame) might be sen-
sible there was deliverance at hand, and consequently
might endeavour to save themselves in their boat..
Nor was it long before the ship blew up in the air,
and the fire was extinguished in the ocean. But
supposing them all to be in their boats, we hung out
our lanterns, and kept firing till eight o'clock in the
morning; when, with our perspectives, we beheld
two boats, full of people, making towards us, though
the tide was against them; then spreading out our
ancient, and hanging out n waft, as a signal for them
to come on board, in half an hour's time, we came
up to them, and took them all in, there being no
less than sixty-four men, women, and children. It
was a French merchant sh;p of 300 tons, homeward
bound from Quebec in the river of Canada. The
master informed me how, by the negligence of the.
steersman, the steerage was set on fire; that, at his
outcry for help, the fire was, as they thought, to-
. tally extinguished; but that some sparks getting be-
tween the timber and within the ceiling, it proceed-
ed into the hold, where there was no refilling it;
that then they got into their boats, as creatures in
the last extremity, with what provisions they had,
together with oars, fails, and a compass, intending
to go back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing at
S.'E. and by E. though there were several chances
against them, as storms to overset and founder them,
rains and colds to benumb and perish their limbs,
and contrary winds to keep them back and starve
them : But, (said he) in this our great distress, we
heard the welcome report of your guns, when, with
unspeakable joy, taking down our masts and fails,
we were resolved to lie by till morning; but per-
ceiving your light, we set our oars at work to keep
our boat a-head, the sooner to attain your ship, the
happy instrument of our deliverance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor
creatures on this occasion; fear and grief are easily
set forth; sighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and head, are all the demonstrations of these
passions; but an excess of joy carries in it a thou-
sand extravagancies; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile,
passionate, sprightly, and gay, than that of other
nations. Some were weeping, tearing themselves
in the greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark
mad about the ship; while the rest were stamping
with their feet, wringing their hands, singing, laugh-
ing, swooning away, vomiting, fainting, with a few
returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and cross-
ing themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken, our
surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood. But
among the pailengers, there were two priests, the
one an old, and the other a young man; but what a-
mazed me more, Was, thafthe oldest was m the worst
plight; for no sooner did he; perceive Mmself freed
from danger, but he dropt down, as h were with-
out life, and, to every one's appearance, quite dead;
'but the surgeon, chassing and rubbing his arm, o-
pened a vein, which at first dropped, and then flow-
ing more freely, the old man began to open his eyes,
and in a quarter of an hour was 'well again. But
soon remembering his happy changeytiie joy of which
whirled his blood about faster than -the vessels could
convey it, he became so feverish, as made him more
fit for bedlam than any other place ; but the surgeon
giving him a sleepy dose, he was perfectly composed
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the
young priest. At his entrance on board the ship,
he fell on his face in the most humble prostration to
the Almighty. I thought indeed he had 'fallen into
a swoon, and so ran to help him up ; but he modestly
told me, he was returning his thanks to the Al-
mighty, desiring me to leave him a few moments,
and that, next his Creator, he would return me thanks
also. And indeed he did so, about throe minutes
after, with great seriousness and affection, while the
tears stood in his eyes, which -convinced me of the
gratitude of his foul. Nor did he less show his piety
and wisdom, in applying himself to his country
people, and labouring to compose them, by the most
powerful reasons, arguments, and perfnasions. And
when, indeed, those people had taken their night's
repose, in such lodgings as our ship would allow,
we found nothing bat the best of manners, and the
most civil acknowledgment?, for which the French
are eminently remarkable. The next day the caa-
tain, and one of the priests, desired to speak with
me, and my nephew, the commander. They told
tts, that they had saved some money, and valuable
things out of the ruined vessel, which were at our
service; only that they desired to be set on shore
some where in our way» At the first my nephew
was for accepting the money; but I (who knew how
hard my cafe would have been, had the Portuguese
captain served me so) persuaded him to the contrary;
and therefore told them, that as we had done no-
thing but what we were obliged to do, by nature
and humanity, and what we ourselves might expect
from others in such cahmity ; so we took them op to
save them, not to plunder them, or leave them naked
upon the land, to perish for want os subsistence, and
therefore would not accept their money: But as <o
sanding them, that was a great dissiculty .; for, being
bound to the East Indies, it was impossible wilfully
to change our voyage upon their particular account;
nor could my nephew (who was under charter-party
to pursue it by way of Brasil) answer it to the freight-
ers. All that we could do, was to put ourselves in
the way of meeting some ships homeward bound
from the West Indies, that if possible they might
get a passage to France or England, Indeed they
were very thankful for our first kindness; but were
under great concern, especially the passengers, at
their being carried to the East Indies. They beg-
ged therefore I would keep on the Banks of New-
foundland, where probably they might meet with
some ship or Hoop to C2rry them to Canada, whence
they came. As this was but a reasonable request,
I was inclined to grant it, since it was no breach of
charter-party, and that the laws of God and nature
obliged us to do what good we could to our fellow-
creatures; and besides, the danger we ourselves
should be in for want of provisions; so we consent-
ed to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and
weather would permit-; if not, that we should carry
them to Martinico in the West Indies. But as it
happened, in a week's time, we made the Banks of
Newfoundland, where the French people hired a
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
bark to carry them to France. But the young priest
being desirous to go to the- East Indies, I readily a-
greed to it, because I liked his conversation; and two
or three of the French sailors also entered themselves
on board our ship.
Now, directing our course for the West Indies,
steering S. and S. by E. about twenty days with little
wind, another adventure happened to exercise our
humanity. In the latitude of 27 degrees 5 min.
north, the 19th of March 1694-9, we perceived a
fail (our course S. E. and by S.) which bore up to
us, and then she appeared to be a large vessel, hav-
ing lost her main-top-mast, fore-mast, and boltsprit;
when firing a gun as a signal of distress, wind N.N. W.
we soon came to speak with her. She was a ship of
Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, out of which
road she had been forced by a hurricane to the west-
ward, in which they lost their masts.
They told us, their expectations were to fee the
Bahama islands, but were driven away by a strong
wind at N. N. W. and having no fails to work the
ship with, but the main course, and a kind of square
sail upon a jury foremast, because they could not
come near the land, were endeavouring to stand for
the Canaries; nay, what was worse, besides all their
fatigue, they were almost starved for want of pro-
vision, having eat nothing for eleven daysall that
they had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. . In this ship were three
passengers, a youth, his mother, and a maid-servant,
who were in a most deplorable condition for want of
food. If I had not gone on board their ship, the
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me, and they would have inevitably perished, though
indeed their second mate (who was captain, by rea-
son the true captain was not on board when the hur-
ricane happened) had before informed me that there
were such persons on board, whom he supposed to
be dead, being afraid to inquire after them, because
he had nothing to give them for relief. Hereupon
we resolved to let them have what we could spare,
ordering the mate to bring some of his men on board
us, which he did accordingly; as he and they look-
ed like skeletons, when meat was set before them,
I ordered them to eat sparingly; but however they
soon fell sick, which obliged the surgeon to mix
something in their broth, which was to be to them
both food and physic. When they were fed, we
ordered our mate to carry them a sack of bread, and
four or five pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged
them to see it boiled, and to keep a guard on the
cook-room, to prevent the men from eating it raw,
and consequently killing themselves with what was
designed for their reliefs But particularly I desired
the mate to fee what condition the poor passengers
were in, and the surgeon gave him a pitcher of the
fame broth which he had prepared for the men;
and being curious to fee this scene of misery myself,
I took the captain (as we called the mate of the ship)
in our boat, and sailed after them.
Here was a fad sight indeed! scarce were the
victuals half boiled in the pot, but they were rea.ly
to break open the cook-room door. To stay their
stomachs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were
dipped in, and softened with the liquor os the meat,
which they called Breuise; telling them it was for
their own safety that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time; and so feeding them gradually,
their bellies were comfortably filled, and the men
did very well again. But when they came to the
poor gentlewoman in the cabin, who for several
days had continued without food, giving what she
had to her son, they found her as it were in the
arms of death. She was fitting upon the floor of
the deck, with her back up against the sides, between
two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head
shrunk between her shoulders, like a senseless corpse.
Nothing was wanting in my mate to revive and en-
courage her; opening her lips, and putting some
broth into her mouth with a spoon; but not having
strengths to speak, she lifted up her head with much
dissiculty, intimating that it was now too late! at
the fame time pointing to the youth her son, as
though she desired him to do what he could to save
the lad; and in a little after she died.
The youth indeed was not so far gone, yet lay
stretched out in a cabin-bed, like one that had scarce
any life. In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had ate up; at first he vomited
what the mate had given him, but at length began
sensibly to revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress,
like one in the last pangs of death; her limbs were
distorted, one of her hands was clasped round the
frame of a chair, which she griped so hard, that
it was with some dissiculty we separated her from it;
Her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both together set fast against the frame of the cabin
table; not only being starved with hunger, but over-
come with grief for the loss of her mistress, whom
she loved most tenderly. It was a great while before
the -surgeon ^could bring her to life, aud a much
longer time before she came to her senses.
After we had failed with them some days, we
fent'them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pie-
ces of eight for satisfaction, we left them, but took
the youth and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about seventeen years old, very hand-
some, modest, sensible, and well-bred, but mightily
cpncerned for,the lose of his honoured mother, hav-
ing, lost his father atBaibadoes but a few months be-
2
sore. He beseeched the surgeon to intercede with
meto take him out of the ship, for that the sailors,
nob sparing a small sustenance, had starved his mother.
But hunger has no bounds, no right, and consequent-
ly istincapable of any-compassion., 'When, the surgeon
told him that our voyage might put him in bad cir-
cumstances, and farther from his friends, he an-
swered he did not care, so he was delivered from ,
that terrible crew; that as the captain (meaning me)
had falved;him from death, so he was. fuse he would,-
do him no harm; and as for the maid:, when she
was restored to her fenses, she wouldr be no less
thankful, let us carry them where we. would. And
indeed the surgeon so represented their case to me,
that I consented, and took them on board,, with all
their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar; but
the youth having a bill of Jading, I made the com-
mander oblige Himself, to deliver a letter and the
deceased widow's goods to Mr. Rogers, a merchant
in-Bristol; butTbelieve-the ship was lost at sea, for-
we could never hear what became os her afterwards.
We were now in the latitude of 19 deg. 42 min.
having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But, passing
by several little incidents.relating to wind and wea-
ther, I shall relate what is more remarkable concern-
ing my little kingdom, to which I was then drawing
near. I had great dissiculty iTDsindiitgr it; for as I
came to, and went from it before, on the south and
east side of theiisland; as coming from theBrasils; so
now approaching between 'the main and the island,
not'having any chart for the coast, nor landrmark,
it obliged us to. go on shore on several islands in the
mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to no purpose.
Thus I. perceived, that what 1-thought was a coq-
tinent before, was no such thirrg, but a long island,
or rather a ridge ossands. throne of these islands
I found some .Spaniards, but they belonged to the
isle dc Trinidad, who came hither in a .sloop to make
salt, and to try to find some pearl mussels. But at
length I came fair on the south side of my island,
and then I presently knew the countenance of my
little kingdom, so we brought the ship safe to an an-
chor, broadside within the little creek, where stood
my ancient and venerable castle. i .
No sooner did I see the placer but calling for Fri-
day, I asked him where he was? but when he look-
ed a little, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joys! O
there! 0 yes'' 0 there.' pointing to our oM abode,
and then fell a dancing and capering as if he was
mad, and I had much ado to keep him from jump-
ing into the sea, to swim ashore. Friday, (said I)
what do you think, shall we go see your father? At
the mentioning his father's name, the poor affection-
ate creature fell a weeping; No, no, (fays he) me fee
him no more, never fee poor father more! he long age
die, die long ago; he much old man. You don't know
that, Friday, (said I) but shall we see any body else i
He looks about, and pointing to the hill above my
house, cries out, We fee, we fee, there much men and
there! which, though I could not perceive them with
my perspective glass, was true, by what the men
themselves told me the next day.
When the English ancient was spread, and three
guns fired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from the creek; upon which I ordered
the boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging
out a white slag of truce, 1 went on shore, accom-
panied also by the young friar, to whom 1 had relat-
ed the history of the first part of my life besides
we had sixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met
with any opposition. v t
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the
first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, and whose face I perfectly well knew.
I ordered them all to stay in the boat for a while;
but Friday, perceiving his father at a distance, would
have jumped into the sea, had they not let the boat
go. No sooner was he on shore, but he flew like a
swift arrow out of a bow to embrace his aged fa-
ther. Certainly it would melt a man of the firmest
resolution into the softest tears, to fee with what
uncommon transports of joy he saluted him : He first
kissed him, then stroaked his face, took him in his
arms, laid him under a shady tree, sat down by him,
then looked as earnest at him as one would do at a
picture, for a quarter of an hour together. After
this, he would lie upon the ground, stroak his legs,
and kiss them, then get up and stare at him, as though
he was bewitched: But the next day one could not
Forbear-laughter to fee his behaviour, for he would
walk several hours with his father along the shore,
leading him by the hand, as though he was a lady;
while, every now and then he would run to the boat,
to get something for him, as a lump of sugar, dram,
biscuit, or something or other that was good. His
frolics ran in another channel in the afternoon; for
when he set old Friday on the ground, he would
dance round him, making comical postures and ge-
stures: And all this while would be telling him one
story or other of his travels and adventures.
It was on the 10th of April, anno 1695, that I
set my foot upon the island a second time. When
my faithful Spaniard, accompanied by, one more,
approached the boat, he little knew who I was,, till
I discovered myself to him: Signior, (said I) in Por-
tuguese, do not you know me? He spoke never a
word, but giving his musket to his attendant, ex-
tended his arms, and saying something in Spanish,
that I did not then understand, he came forward
and embraced me, saying, he was inexcusable not
lo know his deliverer, who, like an angel sent from
heaven, had saved his life. He then beckoned to
the man to call out his companions, asking me, if
I would walk to my own habitation, and take posses-
fion, where I should find some mean improvements:
-But indeed they were extraordinary ones; for they
had planted so many trees so close together, that the
place was like a labyrinth, which none could find
out except themselves, who knew its intricate wind-
ings. I asked him the meaning of all these fortifi-
cations; he told me he would give me a large ac-
count of what had passed since my departure to this
'time, and how he subdued some English, who thought
to be their murderers, hoping I would not be dis-
pleafed, since necessity compelled them to it. As
I knew they were wicket! villains, so I told him, that
I was not only far from finding fault with it, but
.was rather heartily glad that they had subdued them.
While we were thus talking, the man whom he had
:sent returned, accompanied by eleven more, but in
such habits that it was impossible to tell what na-
tions they were of. He first turned to me, and,
pointing to them, These Sir, (said he) are some
of the gentlemen who owe their lives to your good-
ness ; then turning to'them, and pointing to me, he
made them sensible who I was: And then indeed
'theyialuted me one by one; not as ordinary men,
but as though they had been ambassadors 01 noble-
men,and l a triumphant conqueror ; for their behavi-
'otir not only agreed with a manlike majestic gravity,
.but dt 'ihe fame'time was so obliging and courteous
.'are Blade them admirable to the last degree.
Before I relate the history, of the transactions of
my kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own
mouth, I must here insert what 1 omitted in my
former relation. The matter is this: Just before
'we weighed anchor to set fail, there happened a
quarrel on board the ship, which had like to have
occasioned a second mutiny, till such time as the
courageous captain taking two of the'most refracto-
ry prisoners, laid them in irons, threatening, as they
were coiicerried in the forrner disorders, tb'have
them hanged in England for running away with the
ship. This frightened some of the rest, as thinking
the captain would serve them in the same manner,
though he seemed to give them good words for the
present. But the mate having intelligence of this,
made me acquainted with their fears; so that, to
make them, more easy, and ourselves more safe from
their conspiracies, I was obliged to go down, and pass
my honour's word for it, that, upon their good beha-
viour, all that was past should be pardoned; in testi-
mony of which I ordered the two mens irons to bs
taken osf, and themselves forgiven. But as this had
brought us to an anchor that night, in which there was
a calm, the two men that had been in irons stole each
of them a musket, and some other weapons, and tak-
ing the ship's pinnace, not yet haled up, ran away to
their brother rogues. The next morning we sent
'the long-boat, with men to pursue them; but -all in
.vain: The mate, in revenge, would have demolished
my little castle, burnt its furniture, and destroyed
their plantations; but having no orders for it, he did
not put it in execution. And thus there were five
Englishmen in the island, which caused great disfer-
ences, as my faithful Spaniard gave me a perfect ac-
count of in the following manner:
"You cannot, Sir, but remember the embassy you
(sent me about, aud what a-difappointment we met
with by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being
blessed with calm weather, and a smooth sea. Great
indeed was the joy of my countrymen to see me alive,
t 'having acted as the principal man on board, the cap-
tain of theshipwrecked vessel dying before ; nor was
their surprise less, as knowing I.was taken prisoner by
the savages of another nation, they thought me long
since entombed in their monstrous bowels. But when
I showed them the arms, ammunition, and provi-
sions I had brought'for them, they looked upon me
'as a second Joseph, advanced in PbaroaKs court,
and immediately prepared to come along with me.
Indeed they were obliged to trespass upon their
friendly savages, by borrowing two of their cances,
under a pretext for fishing: And they came away
the next morning, but without any provisions of
their own, except a few roots, which served them
instead of bread. After three weeks absence, we
arrived at your habitation. Here we met with three
English sailors, who, I confess, gave us provisions,
and that letter of direction you had left for us, which
informed us how to bring up tame goats, plant corn,
cure grapes, make pots, and in short, every thing
that was necessary for our use; as, in particular, I
knew your method best, so taking Friday's father to
, assist me, we managed all the affairs; nor were the
rest of the Spaniards wanting in their kind ossices,
dressing food for the Englishmen, who did nothing
but ramble and divert themselves in the woods, either
.shooting parrots, or catching tortoises.. But we had
not been long ashore, before we were informed of
two more Englishmen, unnaturally turned out of
their common place of residence by the three others
above-mentioned: This made my Spaniards and me
(whom they-now looked upon as their governor in
your absence) endeavour to persuade them to4 take
them in, that we might- be as one family; but all
entreaties were in vain, so that the poor fellows,
finding nothing to be done without industry, pitch-
ed their tents on the north side of the island, a little
inclining to the west, for fear of savages. Here they
built two huts, one to lodge, and the other to lay
their stores in; for my good-natured Spaniards giv-
ing them some seeds, they dug and planted as I had
done, and began to live prettily. But while they
were thus comfortably going on, the three unnatural
brutes, their countrymen, in a mere bullying hu-
mour, insulted them, by saying, the governor (mean-
ing you) had given them possession of the island, and
d—mn them, they should build no houses upon their,
ground without paying rent. The two honest men
(for so let me now distinguilh them) thought their
three countrymen only jested, and one of them in-
vited them in, to fee their sine habitations; while
the other facetiously told them, that since they built
tenements, with great improvements, they should,
according to the custom of landlords, give them a
longer lease; at the fame time desiring them to fetch
a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the wretches,
swearing he should pay for the jest, snatches up a
firebrand, and clapping it to the outside of their hut,
very fairly set it on fire, which would soon have con-
sumed it, had not the honest man thrust him away,
and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon the fellow
returns with a pole, with which he would have end-
ed his days, had not the poor man avoided the blow;
when fetching his musket, he knocked down the
villain that began the quarrel. The other two
coming to assist their fellow, obliged the honest man
to take his musket also, and both of them presenting
their pieces, bid the villains stand off; and if they
did not lay down their, arms, death should decide
the dispute one way or other. This brought them
to a parley, in which they agreed to take their
wounded man and be gone; but they were in the
wrong that they did'not disarm them when they had'
the power, and then make their complaint to me and
my Spaniards for justice, which might have prevent-
ed their farther designs against them. And indeed
so many trespasses did they afterwards commit, by
treading down their corn, shooting their young kids
and goats, and plaguing them night and day, that
they resolved to come to my castle, challenge all the
three, and decide their right by one plain battle,
while the Spaniards stood by to fee fair play. One
day it happened, that two of my Spaniards (one of
whom understood English) being in the woods, were
met by one of the honest men, who complained how
barbarous their countrymen had been in destroying
their corn, killing their milk-goats, and three kids,
which deprived them of their subsistence; that if we
did not grant them relief, they must be inevitably
starved; and so they parted: But when my Spaniards
came home at night, and 'supper being on the table,
one of them began to reprehend the Englishmen,
but in a-»jery mannerly way; which they resenting,
replied, what business had their countrymen there
without leave, when it was none of their ground ?-
Why, said my Spaniard, calmly, Inglese, they must
not starve: but they replied, Let them starve and be
d—mr.'d, they should neither plant nor build, and
d—mn them they should be their servants, and work
for them, fer the island was theirs, and they would
burn all the huts they should, find in the land. By
this rule, said' my Spaniard, smiling, we shall be your
servants too. Aye, by G—d, and so you shall, re-
plied the impudent rascal. Upon which, starting up,
Will Aitkins cries, Come Jack, let's have t'other
brush with them, who dare to build in our domi-r
nions? Thus leaving us something heated with just
passion, away they trooped, every man having a gun,
pistol, and sword, muttering some threatening words,
that we could then but imperfectly understand.
That night they designed to murder their two com-
panions, and slept till midnight in the bower, think-
ing to fall upon them in their sleep: Nor were the
honest men less thoughtful concerning them; for at
this juncture they were coming to find them out,
hut in a much fairer way. As soon as the villains
came to the huts, and found no body there, they
concluded that I and my Spaniards had given them,
notice, and therefore swore to be revenged on us.
Then they demolished the poor mens habitations;
not by fire, as they attempted before, but pulled
down their houses, limb from limb, not leaving sticks
nor stone on the ground where they stood; broke
their household stusf in pieces, tore up their trees,
spoiled their inclosures, and, in short, quite rujned
them of every thing, they had. Had these people
met together, no doubt but there would have been a
bloody battle; but Providence ordered it for the bet-
ter; for just as the three were got thither, the two
were at our castle; and when they left us, the three
came back again, but in a great rage, scossingly tell-
ing us what they had done; when one taking hold
of a Spaniard's hat, twirls it round, faying, And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, fiall have the same sauce, if'
you don't mend your manners. My Spaniard, a grave,
but courageous man, knocked htm down with one
blow of his sist; at which another villain sired his
pistol, and narrowly missed his body, but wounded
him a little in the cat. Hereat enraged, the Spa-
niard takes up the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, and would have shot him, if I and,
the rest had not come out and taken their arras
from every one of them.
"The Englishmen, perceiving they, had made all
of us their enemies, began to cool; but notwith-
standing their better words, the Spaniards would
n.ot return them their arms again, telling them,
they would do them no manner of harm, if they
would live peaceably; but if they offered any injury
to the plantation or castle, they would shoot them as
they would do ravenous beasts. This made them so
mad, that they went away raging like furies of hell.
They were no sooner gone, but in came the two
honest men, fired with the jultest rage, if such can
be, haying been ruined as aforesaid. And indeed
it was very hard, that nineteen of us should be bul-
lied by three villains continually offending with im-
punity.
"It was a great while, Sir, before^we could persuade
the two Englishmen from pursuing, and undoubt-'
I 4
edly killing them with their sire arms; but we pro-
mised them justice should be done them, and in the
mean time they should reside with us in our habita-
tion: In about five days after, these three vagrants,
almost starved wish hunger, drew near our grove,
and perceiving me, the governor, and two others,
walking by the tide of the creek, they very submis-
sively desired to be received into the family again.
We told them of their great incivility to us, and of
their unnatural barbarity to their countrymen; but
yet we would fee to what the rest agreed to, and in
half an hour's time would bring them word. After
some debate, we called them in, where their two
countrymen laid a heavy charge against them, for
not only ruining, but designing to murder them,
which they could not deny. But here I was for-
ced to interpose as a mediator, by obliging the
two Englishmen not to hurt them, being naked
and' unarmed; and that the other three should
make them restitution, by building their two huts,
and fencing their ground in the fame manner as-
it was before. Well, being in a miserable con-
dition, they submitted to this at present, and lived
some time regularly enough, except as to the work-
ing part, which they did not care for; but the Spa-
niards would have dispensed with that, had they con-
tinued easy and quiet. Their arms being given them
again, they scarce had them a week when they be-
came as troublesome as ever; but an accident hap-
pening soon after obliged us to lay aside private re-
sentments, and look to our common, preservation.
"One night, Sir, I went to bed, perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could I compose my-
self to sleep: Upon which being very uneasy, I got
up, and looked out; but it being dark, I could per-
ceive nothing but the trees around our castle. I went
to bed again, but it was all one, I could not sleep;
when one of my Spaniards hearing me walk about-,
20t
aflced who it was up? I answered, it is I. When I
told him the occasion, Sir, (said he) such things are
not to be flighted; for certainly there is some mis-
chief plotting near us. Where are the Englishmen?
said I. He answered, in their huts; for they lay
separate from us, Sir, since the last mutiny. Well,
(said I) some kind spirit gives this information for our
advantage. Come let us go abroad, and fee if any
thing offers to justify our fears. Upon which I and
some of my Spaniards went up the mountain, not
by the ladder, but through the grove; and then we
were struck with a panic fear on seeing a light, as-
though it were a fire, at a very little distance, and
hearing the voice of several men. Hereupon we re-
treated immediately, and raising the rest of our
forces, made them sensible of the impending dan-
ger: But, with all my authority, I could not make
them stay where they were, so earnest were they to
see how things went.. Indeed the darkness of the
night gave them opportunity enough to view them
(by the light of their fire) undiscovered. As they
were in different parties, and straggling over the shore,
we were much afraid that they should find out our
habitations, and destroy our flocks of goats; to pre-
vent which, we sent an Englishman and two Spa-
niards to drive the goats into the valley where the
cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the cave it-
self. As to ourselves, resuming our native courage,
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we
durst venture to attack an hundred of them ; but be-
fore it was yet light, we resolved to send out Friday's
father as a spy, who immediately stripped himself
naked, gets among them undiscovered, and in two
hours time brings word, that they were two parties
of two different nations, who lately having a bloody
battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance in the fame island, to devour their miserable-
prisoners >. that they were. entirely ignorant of any
I 5
person's inhabiting here ; but rather being filled witk
rage and fury against one another, he believed that
as soon as day-light appeared, there would be a ter-
rible engagement. Old Friday had scarce ended his
relation when we heard an uncommon noise, and
perceived that there was a horrid engagement between
the two armies.
"Such was the curiofity of our party, especially
the Englishmen, that they would not lie close, though
Old Friday told them their safety depended upon it;
and that if we had patience, we should behold the
savages kill one another. However, they used some
cautbn, by going further into the woods, and place-
ing themselves in a convenient place to behold the
battle.
"Never could there be a more bloody engage-
ment, nor men of more invincible spirits and prudent
eonduct, according to their way and manner of fight-
ing. It lasted near two hours, till that party which
was nearest to our castle began to decline, and at
last to fly from their conquerors. We were undoubt-
edly put into a great consternation on this account,
lest they should run into our grove, and consequent-
ly bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we re-
solved to kill the sirst that came, to prevent discove-
ry, and that too with our swords, and the butt ends
of our muflcets, for fear the report of our guns should
be heard.
"And so indeed, as we thought, it happened : For
three of the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood, for shelter;
nor was it long before our scout gave us notice of
it; as also, that the victors did not think fit to pur-
sue them. Upon this I would not suffer them to be
slain-, but had them surprised and taken by our party:
And afterwards they proved very good servants to
us, being stout young creatures, and able to do a
great deal of work. The remainder of t]ie conquer,*
ed savages fled tp their canoes, and put out into the
ocean, while the conquerors joining together, shout-
ed by way of triumph, and about three in the after-
noon they also embarked for their own nation. Thus
we were freed at once from the savages and our fears,,
hot perceiving any of these creatures for some consi-
derable time after. We found two-and-thirty men
dead in the field of battle; some were slain with long
arrows, which we found sticking in their bodies; and
the resst were killed with great unwieldy wooden
swords, which denoted their vast strength, and of
which we found seventeen, besides bows and arrows;
but we could not find one wounded creature among
them alive; for they either kill their enemies quite,
pr carry those wounded away with them.
"This terrible sight tamed the Engltfhmen for
some time, considering how unfortunate they might
have been, had they fallen into their hands, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but also for
food, as we do cattle; and indeed so much did thia
nauseate their stomachs, that it not only made them
yery sick, but more tractable to the common neces-
sary business of the whole society, planting, sowing,
and reaping with the greatest signs of amity and
friendship; so that being now all good friends, we
began to consider of circumstances in general; and
the first thing we thought of was, whether, as we
perceived the savages haunted that side of the island,,
and there being more retired parts of it, and yet as,
well suited to our manner of living, and equally to
our advantage, we ought not rather to move our place
of residence, and plant it in a much safer place, both
for the security of our corn and cattle.
"After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,;
or rather voted nemine contradicente, not to remove
our ancient castle, and that for this very good reason,
that some, tunic -or other we expected to hear frorn,
qur supreme governor (meaning you Sir), whosie.
16. , -
messengers not finding us there, might think the
place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed by
the savages.
"As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the
valley where the cave was, that being most proper
and sussicient for both. But yet, when we consi-
dered further, we altered one part of our resolution;
which was, to remove part of our cattle hither, and;
plant only part of our corn there: So that in cafe
one p irt was destroyed, the other might be preserv-
ed. Another resolution we took, which really had
a great deal of prudence in if, and that was, in not
trusting the three savages whom we had taken pri-
soners, with any knowledge of the plantations which
we had made in the valley, of what number of cat-
tle we had there, much less of the cave, wherein we
kept several arms, and two barrels of powder you
left for us at your departure from this island. But
though we would not change our habitation, we re-
solved to make it more fortified and more secret. To
this end, Sir, as you had planted trees at some dis-
tance before the entrance of your palace; so we, im-
itating your example, planted and filled up the whole
space of ground, even to the banks of the creek, nay,,
into the very ooze, where the tide flowed, not leav-
ing a place for landing, and among those I had plant-
ed, they had intermingled so many short ones, all of
which growing wonderfully fast and thick, a little
dog scarcely could find a passage through them. Nor
was this sufficient, as we thought; for we did the
fame to all the ground, to the right and left hand of
us, eVen to the top of the hill, without so much as
leaving a passage for ourselves except by the ladder:
Which being taken down, nothing but what had
wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near us.
And indeed this was exceedingly well contrived,
especially to serve that occasion for which we after-
wards found it necessary.
"Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
having all this time not one visit from the savages.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
in some amazement; for a few of my Spaniards be-
ing out very early, perceived no lesslthan twenty ca-
noes, as it were coming on shore; upon which, re-
turning home with great precipitation, they gave us
the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all that
day and the next, going out only in the night-time to
make our observation r But as good luck would have
it, they were upon another design, and did not land
that time upon the island.
"But now there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spa-
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had taken
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend some-
thing which he was showing him, snatched up a
hatchet in great fury, not to correct but to kill him;
yet missing his head, gave him such a barbarous cut
in the shoulder, that he had like to have struck off
his arm ; at which' one of my good-natured Spaniards
interposed between the Englishman and savage, be-
seeching the former not to murder the poor creature;
but this kindness had like to have cost the Spaniard
his life, for the Englishman struck at him in the
same manner, which he nimbly and wisely avoiding,
returned suddenly upon him with his shovel, (being
all at work upon their corn-land), and very fairly
knocked the brutish creature down. Hereupon ano-
ther Englishman, coming to his sellow's assistance,
laid the good Spaniard on the earth; when immedi-
ately two others coming to his relief, were attack-
ed by the third Englishman, armed with an old cut-
lass, who wounded them both. This uproar soon
reached our ears, when we rushing out upon them,
took the three Englishmen prisoners; and then our
next question was, what should be done to such mu-
tinous and impudent fellows, so furious, desperate,
and idle, that they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and consequently not safe for the society to
let them live among them.
"Now, Sir, as I was governor in your absence, so
I also took the authority of a judge ; and having them
brought before me, I told them, that if they had been
of my country, I would have hanged every mother's
son of. them; but since it was an Englishman (mean-
ing you, kind Sir), to whom we were indebted for
our preservation, and deliverance, I would in grati-
tude use them with all possible mildness; but at the
fame time leaving them to the judgment of the twa
other Englishmen, who, I hoped, forgetting their re-
sentments, would deal impartially by them.
"Hereupon one of their countrymen stood up;
Sir, (said he) leave it not to us, for you may besensible we
have reason to sentence them to the gallows : Besides, Sir,
this fellow, Will Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your sleep, which
tpe would tuft consent to; but knowing their inability,
and your vigilance, we did not think fit to discover it be-
fore now.
"How Seignior, (said I) do you hear what is alle-
ged against you? What can you fay to justify so horrid,
an action, as to murder us in cold blood? Sp far,
Sir, was the wretch from denying it, that he swore,
d-rm-inn .him but he would do it still. But what have
we done to you, Seignior Atkins, (said I) or what
will you gain by killing us ? What shall we do to pre-
vent you? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why
will you, Seignior Atkins, (said I, smiling) put us to
such an unhappy dilemma, such a fatal necessity ? But
so great a rage did my scossing, and yet severe jest,
put him into, that he was going to fly at me, and un-
doubtedly had attempted to kill me if he had been
possessed of weapons, and had not been prevented by
three Spaniards. This unparaJJelled and vjJdanpug
carriage made us seriously consider what was to be
done. The two Englishmen and the Spaniard, who
had saved the poor Indian's life, mightily petitioned
rae to hang one of them, for an example to the
others, which should be him that had twice attempt-
ed to commit murder with his hatchet, it being at
that time thought impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they eould never gain my consent to
put him to death, for the reasons above-mentioned,
since it was an Englishman, (even yourself) who was
my deliverer ; and as merciful counsels are most pre-
vailing, when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be
of the same opinion as to clemency. But to prevent
their doing us any further mischief, we all agreed,
that they ihould hare no weapons, as sword, gun,
powder, or shot, but be expelled from the society, to
live as they pleased by themselves; that neither the
two Englishmen, nor the red of the Spaniards, should
have conversation with them upon any account what*
soever i that they should be kept from coming with-
in a certain distance of our castle; and if they dared
to offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning,
killing,"'Qr destroying any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society,
we would shoot them as freely as we would do beast*
of prey', in whatsoever places we should find them.
This sentence seemed very just to all-but them-
selves; when like a merciful judge, I called out to
thb two honest Englishmen, saying, You must con-
sider they ought hot to be starved neither; and since
it will be some time before they can raise corn and
cattle of their own, let us give them some corn to last
them reighr-aionths, and. for feed to sow, by which
time they will raise some for themselves : Let us also
bestow upon them six milk-goats, four he-ones, and
fix kids, as well for theiriprefent support, as for a
further increase ; with tools necessary for their work,
as hatchets, an axe, saw, and other things convenient:
to build them huts: All which were agreed to; but
before they took them in possession, I obliged them
solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing against
us or their countrymen for the future. Thus dis-
missing them from our society, they went away, sul-
len and refractory, as though neither willing to go
nor stay: However, seeing no remedy, they took what
provision was given them, proposing to choose a con-
venient place, where they might live by themselves-
"About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out an habitation and plantation, at the N. E.
and most remote part of the island. And indeed
there they built themselves two very handsome cot-
tages, resembling our little castle, being under the
side of a mountain, with some trees already growing
on three sides of it, so that by planting a few more
it would be obscured from sight, unless particularly
sought for. When these huts were finished, we
gave them some dry goat-skins for bedding 9nd co-
vering; and upon their giving us fuller assurances
of their good behaviour for the future, we gave them
some pease, barley, and rice for sowing, and what-
ever tools we could spare.
"Six months did they live in this separate condi-
tion, in which they got their first harvest in, the-
quantity of which was but small, because they had
planted but little land : For indeed, all their plant-
ations being to form, made it the more difficult,
especially as it was a thing out of their element: And
when they were obliged to make their boards and
pots, &c. they could make little or nothing of it.
But the rainy season coming on, put them into a
greater perplexity for want of a cave to keep their
i
209
corn dry, and prevent it from spoiling; and so much
did this humble them, that they begged of my Spa-
niards to help them, to which the good-natured men
readily consented, and in four days space worked a
great hole in the side of the hill for them, large
enough for their purpose, to secure their corn and
other things from the rain, though not comparable
to curs, which had several additional apartments.
"But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year after, which had like to have ruin-
ed us and themselves too: For it seems, being tired
and weary of this fort of living, which made them
work for themselves, without hopes of changing
their condition, nothing would serve them, but they
would make a voyage to the continent, and try if
they could seize upon some of the savages, and bring
them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, white
they lived at ease and pleasure.
"Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they
had not gone farther ; but they neither did, nor pro-
posed any thing, but what had mischief in the design,
or the event. One morning these three fellows came
down to the limited station, and humbly desired to
be admitted to talk with us; which we readily
granted: They told us, in short, that being tired of
their manner of living, and the labour of their hands,
in such employments, not being sussicient to procure
the necessaries of life, they only desired one of the
canoes we came over in, with some arms and ammu-
nition, for their defence, and they would seek their
fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more.
To be sure, we were glad enough to get rid of such
wretched plagues; but yet honesty made us inge-
nuously represent to them, by what we ourselves had'
suffered, the certain destruction they were running
into, either of being starved to death, or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously replied,
that they neither could nor would work; and con-
ROBINSON CRCSOE.
scquently, that they might as well be starved abroad
as at home: And as to their falling into the hands
of the savages, why, if they were .murdered, that
was nothing to us, there was an end of them, nei-
ther had they any wives or children to cry after
them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage,
that if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so
they had but the canoe, they would have gone
without them.
"Though we could not well spare our fire-arms,
rather than they should go like naked men, we let
them have two muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three
hatchets, which were thought very sufficient; wc-
gave them also goats flesh, a great basket full of dried
grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid,
and a large canoe sussicient to carry twenty men.
And thus,, with a mast made of a long pole, and a
fail of fix large goats skins dried, having a fair breeze,
and a flood tide with them, th«y merrily sailed away,
the Spaniards calling after them, Bon veyajo, no man
ever expecting to fee them more.
"When they were gone, the Spaniards and Eng-
lishmen would often say one to another, 0 how
peaceable do we live, since those turbulent fellows have
left us? Nothing could be farther from their thoughts
than to behold their faces any more; and yet scarce
two-and-twenty days had passed over their heads, but
one of the Englishmen, being abroad a-p!anting,
perceived at a distance three men well armed ap-
proaching towards him. Away he flies with speed
to our castle, and tells me and the rest, that we were
all undone, for that strangers were landed upon the.
island, and who they were he could not tell; but
added, that they were not savages, but men, habited
bearing arms. Why, then, (said I) we have the less oc-
casion to be concerned, since, if they are not Indians,
they must be friends -, for I am sure there is no Chri-
stian people upon earth bus what wili da us goad
rather than harm. But while we were considering
of the event, up came the three Englishmen, whose
voices we quickly knew, and so all our admiration
of that nature ceased at once. And our wonder
was succeeded by another sort of inquiry, which was,
what could be the occasionof their returning so quick-
ly to the island, when we little expected, and much
less desired their company? But as this was better to
be related by themselves, I ordered them to be
brought in, when they gave me the following ac-
count of their voyage:
"After two days fail, orfomething less, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to give
them another sort of reception than what they ex-
pected or desired: For as the savages were armed
with bows and arrows, they durst not venture on
shore, but steered northward, six or seven hours,
till they gained an opening, by which they plainly
perceived, that the land that appeared from this place
was not the main land, but an island. At their en-
trance into the opening of the sea, they discovered
another island, on the right-hand northward, and
several more lying to the westward; but being re-
solved to go on shore somewhere or other, they put
over to one of the western isl.inds. Here they found
the natives very courteous to them, giving them se-
veral roots and dried fish; nay, even their women
too were as willing to supply them with what they
could procure them to eat, bringing it a great way
to them upon their heads. Among these hospitable
Indians they continued some days inquiring by signs
and tokens, what nations lay around them; and'
were informed, that there were several fierce and ter-
rible people lived every way, accustomed to eat man-
kind: But for themselves, they never used such diet,
except those that were taken in battle, and of them
they made a solemn feast.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
"The Englishmen inquired how long it was since
»hey had a feast of that kind? They answered, about
two moons ago, pointing; to the moon, and then to
two fingers; that, at this time, their king had two
hundred prisoners, which were fattening up for the
slaughter. The Englishmen were mighty desirous of
seeing the prisoners, which the others mistaking,
thought they wanted some of them for their own
food : Upon which they beckoned to< them, pointing
to the rising, and then to the setting of the sun; mean-
ing, that by the time it appeared in the east next
morning, they would bring them some: And indeed
they were as good as their word; for by that time
they brought eleven men and five women, just as so
many cows and oxen are brought to sea-port towns
to victual a ship. But as brutish as these Englishmen
were, their stomachs turned at the sight. What to
do in this case they could not tell: To refuse the
prisoners, would have been the highest affront offer-
ed to the savage gentry; and to dispose of them,
they knew not in what manner: However, they re-
solved to accept them, and so gave them in return
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets; things which though they
were wholly ignorant of, yet seemed entirely con-
tented with; and dragging the poor wretches into
the boat, with their hands bound behind them, de-
livered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put off as soon as they had these presents,
lest the donors should have expected two or three os
them to be killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next day: And so taking leave with all possible re-
spect and thanks, though neither of them understood
what the other said, they sailed away back to the first
island, and there set eight of the prisoners at liberty.
In their voyage they endeavoured to comfort, and
have some conversation with the poor captives; but
it was impossible to make them sensible of any thing;
and nothing they could fay, or give, or do for them,
could make them otherwise [persuaded, but that they
.were unbound ordy to be devoured: If they gave
them any food, they thought- it was only to fatten
them for the slaughter;-; or looked at any one more
particularly, the poor creature supposed itself to be
the sirst sacrifice: And even when we brought them
to our island, and began to use them with the great-
est humanity and kindness, yet they expected every
day that their new masters would devour them.
"And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voyage,
which was both amazing and entertaining. Here-
upon I alked them, where their new family was?
They told me, they had put them into one of their
huts, and they came to beg some victuals for them.
This, indeed, made us all long to fee them; and so
taking Friday's father with us, leaving only two at
our castle, we came down to behold these poor crea-
tures.
"When we arrived at the hut (they being bound
again by the Englishmen, for fear of escaping), we
found them stark naked, expecting their fatal tra-
gedy : There were three lusty men, well shaped, with
straight and fair limbs, between thirty and five-and-
thirty years old ; and five women, two of them might
be from thirty to forty, two more not above four*
and-twenty; and the last a comely tall maiden of a-
bout seventeen. Indeed, all the women were very
agreeable, both in their proportion and features, ex-
. cept that they were tawny, which their modest be-
haviour and other graces made amends for, when
they afterwards came to be clothed.
. "This naked appearance together with their mi-
serable circumstances, was no very comfortable sight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may ven-
ture, Sir, without slattery, to fay, are men of the
best behaviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest nature,
that can possibly be; for they immediately ordered
Friday's father to fee if he knew any of them, or
if he understood what they could fay. No sooner
did the old Indian appear, but he looked at them
with great seriousness; yet, as they were not of his
nation, they were utter strangers to him, and none
could understand his speech or signs, but one woman.
This was enough to answer'the design, which was
to assure them they would not be killed, being fallen
into the hands of Christians, who abhorred such
barbarity. When they were fulljr satisfied of this,
they expressed their joy, by such strange gestures,
and uncommon tones, as it is not possible for me
to describe. But the woman, their interpreter, was
ordered next to inquire, whether they were content
to be servants, and would work for the men who
had brought them hither to save their lives? Here-
upon (being at this time unbound) they fell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
shoulders, and the other that, intimating, that
they were willing to do any thing for them. But
now, Sir, having women among us, and dreading
that it might occasion some strife,'if not blood* I
asked the three 'men what they would do, dnd how
they intended to use these creatures, whether as
servants or women? One of them very pertly and
readily answered, they would use them as both.
.Gentlemen, (said I) as you are your own masters, I
mi not going to restrain you from that; but, me-
thinks, for avoiding dissention among you, I would
only desire you to engage, that none of you will-
take more than one for a woman or a wife, and that
having taken this one, none else should presume to
touch her; for though we have not a priestly au-
thority to marry you, yet it is reasonable, that who-
ever thus takes a woman, should be obliged to main-
tain her, since nobody else has any thing to do with
her: And this indeed -appeared so just to all present,
2
that it was unanimously agreed to. The Englishmen
then asked my Spaniards, whether they designed to
take any of them? but they all answered, No ; some
declaring they had already wives in Spain; and others,
that they cared not to join with infidels. On the
reverse, the Englishmen took each of them a tem-
porary wife, and so set up a new method of living.
As to Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three
favage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our ancient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the island with food,
as necessity required. But the most remarkable
,part of the story is, how these Englishmen, who had
been so much at variance, should agree about the
choice of these women; yet they took a way good
enough to prevent quarrelling among themselves.
They set'the five women in one of their huts, and
going themselves to the other, drew lots which
should have the first choice. Now, he that had
the first lot went to the hut, and fetched out her he
chose, and it is remarkable, that he took her that was
the most homely and eldest of thenumber, which made
the rest of the Englishmen exceeding merry. The
Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it: But
as it happened, the fellow had the best thought, in
choosing one sit for application and business ; and in-
deed she proved the best wife of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures:perceived themselve«
placed in a row, and separated one from one, they
were again seized with an unspeakable terror, as now
thinking they were going to be slain in earnest: And
when the Englissiman came to take the first, the rest
set up a lamentable cry, clapped their arms around
her neck, and hanging about her, took their last fare-
well, as they thought, in such trembling agonies,
and affectionate embraces, as would have softened
the'hafdest heart in the world, and made the dryest
eyes melt into tears; nor could they be persuaded
but that they were going to die, till such time as
Friday's father made them sensible that the English-
men had chosen them for their wives, which ended
all their terror and concern upon this occasion.
"Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work,
and being assisted by my good-natured Spaniards, in
a few hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their separate lodging, since those
they had already were filled with tools, household-
stuff, and provision. They all continued on the north
shore of the island, but separate as before; the three
wicked ones pitching farther off, and the two honest
men nearer our castle; so that the island seemed to
be peopled in three places, three towns beginning
to be built for that purpose. And here I cannot but
remark, what is very common, that the two honest
men had the worst wives (I mean as to industry, t
.cleanliness, and ingenuity), while the three repro-
bates enjoyed women of quite contrary qualities.
"But another observation I made was, in favour of
the two honest men, to show what disparity there
is between a diligent application to business on the
one hand, and a slothful, negligent, and idle tem-
per, on the other. Both of them had the fame par-
cel of ground laid out, and corn to low, sussicient
for them ; but both did not make the some improve-
ments, either in their cultivation or in their planting.
"The two honest men had a multitude of young
trees planted about their habitations, so that when you
approached near them, nothing appeared but a wood,
very pleasing and delightful. Every thing they did
prospered and flourished; their grapes planted in
order, seemed as though managed in a vineyard, and
were infinitely preferable to any of the others. Nor
were they wanting to find out a place of retreat,
but dug a cave in the most retired part of a thick
wood, to secure their wives and children, with thiir
provision and chiefest goods, surrounded with in-
numerable stakes, and having a most subtle entrance,
in case any mischief should happen either from their
fellow-countrymen, or the devouring savages.
"As to the reprobates (though I must own they
.were much more civilized than before), instead of a
delightful wood surrounding their dwelling, we sound
the words of King Solomon too truly verified; I went
by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown
with thorns. In many places their crop was obscured
with weeds; the hedges having several gaps in them,
the wild goats had got in, and eaten up the corn,
-and here and there was a dead bush, to stop in those
gaps for the present, which was no more than shut-
ting the stable-door after the steed was stolen away.
But as to their wives, they (as I observed before)
.were more diligent, and cleanly enough, especially
in their victuals, being instructed by one of the honest
men, who had been a cook's mate on board a ship:
And very well it was so; for as he cooked himself,
his companions and their families lived as well as
the idle husbands, who did nothing but Joker about,
fetch turtles eggs, catch fish and birds, and do any
thing but work, and lived accordingly, while the
diligent lived very handsomely and plentifully, in
the most comfortable manner. And now, Sir, I
come to lay before your eyes a scene quite different
from any thing that ever happened us before, and
perhaps ever befel you in all the time of your re-
sidence on this island. I shall inform you of its ori-
ginal in the following manner:
"One morning, Sir, very early, there came five
or six canoes of Indians on ihore, indisputably upon
their old custom,of devouring their prisoners. All
that we had to do upon such an occasion, was to lie
concealed, that they,- not' having any notice of in-
habitants, might depart quietly, after performing
their bloody execution: Whoever first discovered
the savages, was to give notice to all the three plant-
ations to keep within doors, and then a proper scout
was to be placed to give intelligence of their de-
parture. But, notwithstanding these wise measures,
an unhappy disaster discovered us to the savages,
which was like to have caused the desolation of the
whole island: For aster the savages gere gone oft'
in their canoes, some of my Spaniards and 1 looking
abroad, and being inflamed with a curiosity to see
-what they had been doing, to our great amazement,
beheld three savages fast asleep on the ground, who,
either being gorged, could not awake when the
others went off, or having wandered too far into
the woods, did not come back in time.
"What to do with them at first we could not tell;
as for slaves, we had enough, of them already 4 and
as to kill them, neither Christianity nor humanity
would suffer us to shed the blood of persons who
never did us wrong. We perceived they had no
boat left them to transport them to their own nation;
and that by letting them wander about, they might
discover vis, and inform the first savages that should
happen to land upon the same bloody occasion, which
information might entirely ruin. ut 'r and therefore
I counselled my Spaniards to secure them, and set
them about some work or other, till we could better
dispose of them.
"Hereupon we all went back, and making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, especially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and
eaten, but we soon eased' them, of their fear as to
that point. We first took them to the bower where
the chief of our country-work lay, as keeping goats,
planting corn, &c.; and then carried, them to the
two Englishmens habitation, to help them in their
business; but happy it was for us all we did not
carry them to our castle> as1-by the sequel will ap-
pear. The Englishmen indeed found them wo k to
do ; but whether they did not guard them strictly,
or that they thought they could not better them-
selves, I cannot tell; but certainly one of them ran-
away into the woods, and they could not hear of
him for a long time after. ,
"Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the savages re-
turning in about four weeks time, and going osf in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Sir,
this thought could not but terrify us exceedingly,
and make us justly conclude that this savage would
inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
how few and weak we were in comparison to their
numbers; and we expected it would not be long be-
fore the Englishmen would be attacked in their
habitations; but the savages had not seen their
places of safety in the woods, nor our castle, which
it was a great happiness they did not know.
"Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion; for about eight months after this, six ca-
noes, with about ten men in each canoe, came fail-
ing by the north side of the island, which they neves
were accustomed to before, and landing about art
hour after fun-rife, near a mile from the dwelling
of the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the good
fortune to discover them about a league off:. So that
it was an hour before they could attain the shore,
and some longer time before they could come at
them. And now being confirmed in this opinion*
that they were certainly betrayed, they immediately
bound the two slaves which were left, causing two
of the three men, whom they brought with the wo-
men, and who proved very faithful, to lead them
with their wives, and other conveniencies, into their
retired cave in the wood, and there to bind the two
fellows hand and foot, till they had further orders.
They then opened their fences, where they kept their
milk goats, and drove them all out, giving the goats
liberty to ramble in the woods, to mate the savages
believe that they were wild ones; but the slave had
given a truer information, which made them come
to the very inclosures. The two frighted men sent
the other slave of the three who had been with them
by accident to alarm the Spaniards, and desire their
assistance; in the mean time, they took their arms
and ammunition, and made to the cave, where they
had sent their wives, and securing their slaves, seated
themselves in a private place, from whence they might
behold all the actions of the savages. Nor had they
gone far, when ascending a rising ground, they could
see a little army of Indians approaching to their beau-
tiful dwelling, and, a little after, perceive the fame,
and their furniture, to their unspeakable grief, burning
in a consuming slame: And when this was done, they
spread here and there, searching every bush and
place for the people, of whom, it was evident, they
had information. Upon which the two Englishmen,
not thinking themselves secure where they stood, re-
treated about half a mile higher in the country, right-
ly concluding, that the farther the savages strolled,
there would be lesser numbers together: Upon which
the next took their stand by the trunk of an old
tree, very hollow and; large, whence they resolv-
ed to see what would offer: But they had not
stood long there before two savages came run-
ning directly towards them, as though having know-
ledge of their being there, who seemed resolved
to attack them; a little sarther were three more,
and five more behind them again, all running the
'same way. It cannot be imagined what perplexity
the poor men were in at this light, thinking, that if
assistance did not speedily come, their cave in the
wood would be discovered, and consequently all there-
in lost: So they resolved to resist them there; and
when overpowered, to ascend to the top of the trees,
where they might defend themselves as long as their
ammunition lasted, ,and fell their lives as dear as
possible to those devouring savages. Thus fixed in
their resolution, they next considered, whether they
should fire at the sirst two, or wait for the three,
and so take the middle party, by which the two first:
and the five last would be separated. In this regu-
lation the two savages also confirmed them, by turn-
ing a little to another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came directly towards the
tree. Hereupon they resolved to take them in a di-
rect line, as they approached nearer, because per-
haps the first shot might hit them all three ; and up-
on this occasion, the man who was to sire, charged
his piece with three or four bullets. And thus, while
they were waiting, the savages came on ; one of them
was the runaway, who had caused all the mischief;
so they resolved he should not escape, if they
both fired at once. But however, though they did
not fire together, they were ready charged; when
the first that let sly was too good a marksman to
miss his aim; for he killed the foremost outright,
the second (who was the runaway Indian), fell on
the ground, being shot through the body, but not
dead, and the third was a little wounded on the
shoulder, who, sitting down on the ground, fell a
screaming in a most fearful manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes from one side to another, but raised the
birds of all forts, fluttering with the most confused
noise, so much terrified the five savages behind, that
they stood still at first, like so many inanimate ima-
ges: But when all things were in profound siletuce,
they came to the place where their companions lay;
and these, being not sensible that they were liable
to the same fate, stood over the wounded man, un-
doubtedly inquiring the occasion of this sad calamity;
and it is reasonable to suppose, he told them, that
it came by thunder and lightning from the gods, hav-
ing never seen nor heard of a gun before in the
whole course of their lives. By this time, the Eng,-
K. ,
lishmen having loaded their pieces, fired both to-
gether a second time, when seeing them all fall im-
mediately upon the ground, they thought they had
killed every creature of them. This made them
come up boldly before they had charged their guns,
which indeed was a wrong step ; for when they came
to the place, they found iour alive, two of them ve-
ry little wounded, and one not at all, which obligecY-
them to fall upon them with their muskets: They
first knocked the runaway savage on the head, and
another that was but a little wounded in the arm, and
then put the other languishing wretches out of their
pain; while he that was not hurt, with bending
lmees, and uplifted hands, made piteous moans, and
signs to them to spare his life : Nor indeed were they
unmerciful to the poor wretches, but pointed to them
to sit down at the root of a tree hard by and then one
of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine he
had in his pocket by mere chance, tying his two
feet together, and his two hands behind him, the*
left him there, making all the haste they could af-
ter the other two, fearing they should find out their
cave: But though they could not Overtake them,
they had the fatisfaction to perceive them, at a di-
stance, cross a valley towards the sea, a quite con-
trary way to their retreat; upon whichfthey return-
ed to the tree, to look after their prisoner ; but when,
(hey came there he was gone, leaving the piece of
rope-yarn wherewith he was bound behind him.
"Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be, or
in what numbers: Immediately they repaired to their
Cave, to fee if all was well there, and found every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted
upon their husbands account, whom now they loved
entirely. They had not been long here, before se-
ven of my Spaniards came to assist them; while the
other ten, their servants, and Friday's father, were
gone to defend their bewer, corn, and cattle, in cafe
the savages should have rambled so far. There ac-
companied the seven Spaniards, one of the three sa-
vages that had formerly been taken prisoners, and
with them also that very Indian whom the English-
men had a little before left under the tree; for it
seems they passed by that way where the slaughter
was made, and so carried along with them that poor
wretch that was left bound. But so many prisoners
now becoming a burden to us, and fearing the dread-
ful consequence of their escaping, most of the Spa-,
niardt and English urged the absolute necessity there
.was of killing them for our common preservation:
But, Sir, the authority I bore as a governor overruled
that piece of cruelty ; and then I ordered them to be
sent prisoners to the old cave in the valley, bound
hands and feet, with two Spaniards to guard them.
*' So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their
fury against the savages, for destroying their habita-
tions, that they had not patience to stay any longer;
but, taking five Spaniards along with them, armed
with four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-staff, a-
way they went in pursuit of their enemies. As they
passed by the place where the savages were slain, it
was veiy easy to be perceived that more of them had
been there, having attempted to carry off their dead
bodies, but found it impracticable. From a rising
ground, our party had the mortification to see the
smoke that proceeded from the ruins; when coming
farther in fight of the shore, they plainly perceived
that the savages had embarked in their canoes, and
were putting out to sea. This they were very sorry
for, there being no coming at them to give them a
parting salute; but, however, they were glad enough
to get clear of such unwelcome guests.
"Thus the two honest, but unfortunate English-
men, being ruined a second time, and their im-
provements quite destroyed, most of my good natured
&4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Spaniards helped ihem to rebuild, and we all assist-
ed them with needful supplies; nay,, what is more
remarkable, their three mischievous countrymen,
when they heard it (which-was after all these disas-
ters were over, they living remote eastward), very
friendly sympathised with them, and worked for
them severardays: So that in a little time their ha-
bitation was rebuilt, their necessities supplied, and
themselves restored to their former tranquillity.
"Though the savages had nothing to boast of in
this adventure (several canoes being driven ashore, fol-
lowed by two drowned creatures, having undoubted-
ly met with a storm at sea that very night they dei
parted), yet it was natural to be supposed, that those,
whose better fortune it was to attain their native
shore, would inslame their nation to another ruinous
attempt, with a greater force, to carry all before
them. And indeed so it happened; for, about se-
ven months, after, our island was invaded with a most
formidable navy, no less than eight.and-twenty ca-
noes full of favages, armed with wooden, swords,
monstrous clubs, bows and arrows, and such like
instruments of war, landing at the east side of the
island. You may well,. Sir, imagine, what conster-
nation our men were in upon this account, and how
speedily they were to execute their resolution, having
only that night's time allowed them. They knew
that since they could not withstand their enemies,
concealment was the only way to procure their safe-
ty: And therefore they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their flock
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to
the old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance
of inhabitants as possible; and then posted them-
selves, with all their force, at the plantation of the
two men. As they expected, so it happened; for
early the next morning, the Indians, leaving their
canoes at the east end of the island, came running
along the shore, about two hundred and fifty in num.
ber as near as could be guessed. Our army was but
little indeed ; and what was our greatest; misfortune,
we had no arms sussicient for them. The account,
as to the men, Sir, is as follows :-
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
I Old Friday.
3 The three savages
taken with the wo-
men, who proved
faithful servants.
3 Other slaves, living
with the Spaniards.
ii Muskets.
S Pistols.
3 Fowling-pieces.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.
5 Muskets, or-fowling-
pieces , taken from the
sailors whom you re-
duced*
As to our slaves, we gave three of them halberts, and
the other three long staves, with great iron spikes at
the end of them, with hatchets by their sides: We
also had hatchets sticking in our girdles, besides the
fire-arms; nay, two of the women, inspired with
Amazonian fortitude, could not be dissuaded from
fighting along with their dearest husbands, and if
they died, to die with them. Seeing their resolution,
we gave them hatchets likewise; but what pleased
them best, were the bows and arrows (which they
dexterously knew how to use) that the Indians had
left behind them, after their memorable battle one
against another.
"Over this army, which, though little, was of
great intrepidity, I was constituted chief general and
commander; and knowing Will Atkins, though ex-
ceeding wicked, yet a man of invincible courage,-1
gave him the power of commanding under me: He
and fix men, with their mulkets loaded, with six or
seven bullets a-piece, were planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, having
orders to let the first pass by ;, and then, when, he
K5
nOBINSON CRUSOB.
fired into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat
round part of the wood, and so come to the rear
of the Spaniards, who were shaded by the thicket
of trees; for though the savages came on with the
fierceness of lions, yet they wanted the subtitty of
foxes, being out of all manner of order, and strag-
gling in heaps every way: And indeed when Will
Atkins, after fifty of the savages had passed by, had-
ordered three of his men to give fire, so great was
their consternation, to fee so many men killed and
wounded, and hear such a dreadful noise, and yet
not know whence it came, that they were frightened
to the highest degree; and when the second volley
Was given, they concluded no less but that their
companions were slain by thunder and lightning from
heaven. In this notion they would have continued,
had Will Atkins and his men retired as soon as
they sired, according to order; or had the rest been
near them, to pour in their shot continually, there
miglit have been a complete victory obtained; but »
staying to load their pieces again, discovered the
whole matter. They were perceived by some of the
scattering savages at a distance, who let fly their
arrows among them, wounded Atkins himself and
killed his fellow Englishman, and one of the Indians
taken with the women. Our party did not fail to
answer them, and in their retreat killed about twenty
savages. Here I cannot but take notice of our
poor dying slave, who, though stopped from his re-
treat by a fatal arrow, yet with his slass and hatchet
desperately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and
killed five of the savages, before his life submitted
to a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or
malice of the Indians to be less remarked, in break-
ing the arms, legs, and heads of the two dead bodies
with their clubs and wooden swords, after a most
wretched manner. As Atkins retreated, our party
advanced, to interpose between him and the savages:
»
but after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat
also: For they were so numerous and desperate, th it
they came up to our very teeth, shot their arrows
like a cloud, and their wounded men, enraged with
cruel pain, fought,' like madmen. They did not,
however, think tit to follow us, but drawing them-
selves up in a circle, they gave two triumphant shouts
in token of victory, though they had the grief to fee
several of their wounded men bleed to death before
them.
"After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army to-
gether upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as
he was, would have had us attack the whole body
of the savages at once. I was extremely well pleased
.with the gallantry of the man; but upon considera-
tion I replied, Youperceive, Seignior Atkins, how their
wounded men fight; let them alone till morning, when
they will bes>int? sliff, and /ore, and then we Jhall havt
fewer to combab'w[ith. To w-hich Will Atkins, smiling
replied, That's very true . Seignior, and so sb.ill I too;
and that's the reason I would sight them now I am
warm. We all answered, Seignior Atkins, for your
part, you have behaved very gallantly; and if you
are not able to-approach the enemy in the morning
we will fight for you; till-fhen we think it'eonve-
nient to wait; and so we tarried.
"By the brightness of the moon that night, we
perceived the savages in great disorder about their
dead and wounded men. This made us change our
resolution, and resolve to fall upon them in the nighty
if we could give them one volley undiscovered.
This we had a fair opportunity to do, by one of the
two Englishmen's leading us round, between the
-woods and the sea-side westward, and turning short
south, came privately to a place where the thickest
of them were. Unheard and unperceived, eight
of us sired among them, and did dreadful execution';
and in half a minute after, eight more os us let fly!,,
K<5
killing and wounding abundance of them; and then
dividing ourselves into three bodies, eight persons in
each body, we marched from among the trees to the
very teeth of the enemy, sending foith the greatest
shouts and acclamations. The savages hearing a dif-
ferent noise from three quarters at once, stood in the
utmost confusion; but coming in sight of us, let fly
a volley of arrows, which wounded poor Old Friday,
yet happily it did not prove mortal. We did not
however give them a second opportunity, but rushing
in among them, we sired three feveral ways, and then
fell to work with our swords, staves, hatchets, and
the butt-end of our muskets, with a fury not to be
resisted; so that, with the most dismal screaming
and howling, they had recourse to their feet, to save
their lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget
the valour of the two women; for they exposed
themselves to the greatest dangers, killed many with
their arrows, and valiantly destroyed several more
with their hatchets. s -;-v.''
"In fighting these two battles, we were so much
tired, that we did not then trouble ourselves to
pursue them to their canoes, in which we thought
they would presently put to the ocean: But there
happening a dreadful storm at sea, which continuing
all that night, it not only prevented their voyage,
but dashed several of their boats to pieces against
the beach, and drove the rest so high upon the
shore, that it required infinite pains to get them
osf. After our men had taken some refreshment and
a little repose, they resolved early in the morning
to go towards the place of their landing, and fee
whether ihey were gone ofly or in what posture
they remained. This neceflarily led them to the
place of battle, where several of the savages were
expiring; a sight no way pleasing to generous minds,
to delight in their misery, though obliged to conquer
them by the law of arms: But our own Indian staves
put them out of their pain, by dispatching them
with their hatchets. At length, coming in view of
the remainder of their army, we found them leaning
upon their knees, which were bended towards their
mouth, and the head between the two hands.
Hereupon, coming within musket-shot of them, I
ordered two pieces to be fired without ball, in order
to alarm them, that we might plainly know whether
they had the courage to venture another battle, or
were utterly dispirited from such an attempt, that so
we might accordingly manage them. And indeed
the project took very well; for no sooner did the
favages hear the first gun, and perceive the slash of
the second, but they suddenly started upon their
feet, in the greatest consternation; and when we
approached towards them, they ran yowling and
screaming away up the hill into the country.
"We could rather, at first, have wished, that the
weather had permitted them to have gone osf to the
sea : But when we considered that their escape might
occasion the approach of multitudes, to our utter
ruin and dissolution, we were very well pleased the
contrary happened: And Will Atkins (who, though
wounded, would not part from us all this while) ad-
vised us not to let slip this advantage, but clapping
between them and their boats, deprive them of the
capacity of ever, returning to plague the island: J
know (said he), there is but one objection you can make,
which is, that these creatures, living like beasts in the
wood, may make excursions, rifle the plantations, and
destroy the tame goats: But .then consider, .we had bet-
ter to do ivith an hundred men, whom we can kill, or
make slaves of, at leisure, than with an hundred na-
tions, whom it is impossible we should save ourselves
from, much less subdue. This advice and these ar-
guments being approved of, we set fire to their boats;
and though they were so wet that , they would not
burn entirely, yet we made them incapable for swim-
ming in the seas. As soon as the Indians perceived
what we were doing, many of them ran out of the
woods, in sight of us, and kneeling down piteously
cried out, Oa, On, Waramakon, intimating, I sup-
pose, that if we would but spare their canoes, they
would never trouble us again.!
"But alh;their complaints, submissions, and en-
treaties, were in vain: For self-preservation obliging
us to the contrary, we destroyed^every one of them
that had escaped the fury of the ocean. ' When the
Indians perceived this, they raised a lamentable cry,
and ran into the woods, where they continued run-
ning about, making the woods ring with their la-
mentation. Here we should have considered, that
making these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at
the same^time, to have set a sussicient guard upon
the plantations: For the savages, in their ranging
about, found out the bower, destroyed the fences,
trod the corn down under their feet, and tore up
the vines and grapes.' It' is true, we were aiways
able to fight these creatures; but as they were too
swift for us, and very numerous, we durst not go
cut single, for fear of them; though that too was
'needless, they having no weapons, nor any materials
to make them; and indeed their extremity appeared
in a little time after.
"Though the savages, as already' rhcntion'dd, had
destroyed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &c.
yet we had still left our flock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of Will Atkins and his compa-
nions, one of whom being killed by an arrow, they
were now reduced to two: It is remarkable, that
this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with his
hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my
countrymen the Spaniards. As our condition was
so low, we came to the resolution to drive the sa-
.vages up to the farther part of the island, where up
Indians landed; to kill as many of them as we could,
till we had reduced their number; and then to give
the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach them
how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of which
they were so terrified, that they Would fall to the
ground. Every day we killed and wounded some of
them, and many we sound starved-to death, so that
our hearts began to relent at the'fight of such misai.
rable objects. At last, with great dissiculty, taking
one of them alive, and using him with kindness and
tenderness, we brought him to Old Friday, who talk-
ed to him, and told him how good we would be to
them all, giving them corn and land to plant and live
in,and present nourishment, provided they would keep
within such bounds as should be allotted them, and
not do prejudice to others: Go then, (said he) and in-
form your countrymen of this; which, if they "will not
agree to, every one of them Jhall be slain.
. ** The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being
reduced to about thirty-seven, joyfully accepted the
osfer, and earnestly begged for food; hereupon we
sent twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well
armed, together with Old Friday, and three Indian
slaves, who marched to the place where they were.
The slaves were loaded with a large quantity of
bread, and rice cakes, with three live goats: And
the poor Indians being ordered to sit down 'on the
fide of the hill, they ate the victuals very thankfully,
and have proved faithful to the last, never trespas-
sing beyond their bounds, where as this day they
quietly and happily remain, and where we now and
then visit them. They are confined to a neck of
land about a mile and a half broad, and three or
soar in length, on the south-east corner of the island,
the sea being before; and lofty mountains behind
them, free from tire appearance of canoes; and in»
deed their countrymen have never made any inquiry
after them. We gave them twelve hatchets, and
three or four knives ; have taught them to build huts,
make wooden spades, plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them, as likewise to make
wicker-works, in which, I must ingenuously confess,
they infinitely outdo us, having made themselves se-
veral pretty necesfaries and fancies, as baskets, sieves,
bird-cages, and cupboards, as stools, beds, and
couches, no less useful than delightful: And now
they live the most innocent and inoffensive creatures
that ever were subdued in the world, wanting no-
thing but wives to make them a nation.
"Thus, kind Sir, have I given you according to
my ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the island since your
departure to this day: And we have great reason to
acknowledge the kind providence of Heaven in our
merciful deliverance. When you inspect your little
kingdom, you will find in it some little improvement,
your flocks increased, and your subjects augmented:
So that from a desolate island, as this was before your
wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a visible pro-
spect of its becoming a populous and well-governed
little kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory."
The end of the Spanish governor's relation.
The continuation of the life ef Robinson Crusoe; both of
those passages that happened during the time of his con-
tinuance on the island, and after his departure, till he
arrived again in his native country.
THERE is no doubt to suppose, but that the pre-
ceding relation os my faithful Spaniard was
very agreeable, and no less surprising to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: Nor were
these people less pleased with those neceflary utensils
233
that I brought them, such as the knives, scissars,
spades, shovels, and pick-axes, with which they now
adorn their habitations. So much had they addicted
themselves to wicker-work, prompted by the inge-
nuity of the Indians, who assisted them, that when I
viewed the Englishmens colonies, they seemed at a
distance as though they had lived like bees in a hive:
For Will Atkins, who was now become a very in-
dustrious and sober man, had made himself a tent of
basket-work round the outside ; the walls were work-
ed in as a basket, in pannels or strong squares of
thirty-two in number, standing about seven feet high:
In. the middle was another, not above twenty paces
round, but much stronger built, being of an octago-
nal form, and in the eight corners stood eight strong
posts, round the top of which he laid strong;pieces,
pinned with wooden pins, from which he raised a
pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I assure you,
and joined very well together with iron spikes, which
he made himself; for he had made him a forge, with
a pair os wooden bellows and charcoal for his work,
forming an anvil out of one of the iron-crows, to
work upon, and in this manner he would make him-
self hooks, staples spikes, bolts, and hinges. After
he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he
made it so firm between the rafters with balket-work,
thatching that over again with rice straw, and over
that a large leaf of a tree, that his house was as dry
as if it had been tiled or slated. The outer circuit
was covered as a lean-to quite round this inner apart-
ment, laying long rafters from the thirty-two angles,
to the top-posts of the inner house, about twenty
feet distance; so that there was a space like a wall
betwixt the outer and inner wall, near twenty feet in
breadth. The inner place he partitioned off with
the same wicker-work, dividing it into six neat apart-
ments, every one of which had a door, first into the
entry of the main tent, and another into the space
ROBrNSON CRUSOE.
and walk that was round it, not only convenient for
retreat, but for circle; there was a passage directly
to the door of the inner house; on eirher side was a
wicker partition, and a door, by which you go first
into a large room twenty-two feet wide, and about
thirty long, and through that into another of a smal-
ler length, so that in the outward circle were ten
handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come
at through the apartments of the inner tent, serving
as retiring rooms to the respective chambers of the
inner circle, and four large warehouses, which went
in through one another, two on either hand of the
passage that led through the outward door to the
inner tent. In short, nothing could be built more
ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better conveni-
encies; and here lived the three families, Will At-
kins, his companion, their wives and children, and
the widow of the deceased. As to religion, the men
seldom taught their wives the knowledge of God,
any more than the sailors custom of swearing by his
name. The greatest improvement their wives had,
was, they taught them to speak English, so as to be
understood.
None of their children were then above six years
old; they were all fruitful enough; and, I think,
the cook's mate's wife was big os her sixth child.
When I inquired of the Spaniards about their cir-
cumstances while -among the savages, they told me,
that they abandoned themselves to despair, reckoning
themselves a poor and miserable people, that had no
mean put into their hands, and consequently mull
soon be starved to death. They owned, however,
that they were in the wrong to think so, and for re-
fusing the assistance that reason offered for their sup-
port, as well as future deliverance, confessing that
grief was a mofb insignificant passion, as it looked
upon things as without remedy, and having no hope
of good things to come ; all vrhieh verified this noted
proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here; for making ob-
servations upon my improvements, and on my con-
dition at first, infinitely worse than theirs, he told
me, that Englishmen had, in their distress, greater
presence of mind than those of any other country
that he had met with; and that they and the Portu-
guese were the worst men in the world to struggle
under misfortunes. When they landed among the
savages, they found but little provision, except they
would turn cannibals, there being but a few. roots and
herbs, with little substance in them, and-os which
the natives gave them but very sparingly. Many
were the ways they took to civilize and teach the sa-
vages, but in vain: For they would not own them
to be their instructors, whose lives were owing to
their bounty. Their extremities were very grcat,
many days being entirely without food, the savages
there being more indolent and less devouring than
those who had better supplies.. When they went out
to battle, they were obliged to assist these people, in
one of which my faithful Spaniard being taken, had
like to have been devoured. They had lost their am-
munition, which rendered their fire-arms useless;
nor could they use the bows and arrows that were
given them, so that while the armies were at a dis-
t nee, they had no chance, but when close, then
they could be of service with halberts and sharpened
sticks, put into the muzzles of their musleets. They
made themselves targets of wood, covered with the
skins of wild beasts; and when one happened to be
knocked down, the rest of the company sought over
him till lie recovered; and then standing close in a
Jine, they would make their way through a thousand
favages. At the return of their friend, who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were they
less surprised at the sight os the loaves of bread I had
sent them, things they had not seen for several years,
at the fame time crossing and blessing it,'as though
it was manna sent from Heaven: But when they
knew the errand, and perceived the boat which was
to carry them to the person and place from whence
such relies came, this struck them with such a sur-
prise of joy as made some of them saint away, and
others burst out into tears.
This was the summary account that I had from
them. I shall now inform the reader what I next
did for them, and in what condition I left them. As
we were all of opinion that the savages would scarce
trouble them any more, so we had no apprehensions
on that score. I told them I was come purely to e-
stablish, and not to remove them; and, upon that
occasion, had not only brought them necessaries for
convenience and defence, but also artificers, and o-
ther persons, both for their necessary employments,
and to add to their number. They were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one
by one, if they had entirely forgot their first animo-
sities, would engage in the strictest friendship, and
shake hands with one another? On this, Will At-
kins, with abundance of good humour, said, they
had afflictions enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to make them all friends: As for
himself he would live and die among them, owning,
that what the Spaniards had done to him, his own
mad humour had made necessary for them to do.
Nor had the Spaniards occasion to justify their pro-
ceeding to me ; but they told me, that since Will
Atkin3 had behaved himself so valiantly in fight, and
at other times showed such a regard to the commop
interest of them all, they had not only forgotten all
that was past, but thought he ought as much to be
trusted with arms and necessaries as any of them,
which they testified by making him next in com-
mand to the governor: And they most heartily em-
braced the occasion of giving me this solemn assur-
ance, that they would never separate their interest
again as long as they- lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we
appointed all of us to dine together the next day;
upon this I caused the ship's cook and his mate to
come on shore for that purpose, to assist in dressing
our dinner. 'We brought from the ship six pieces
of beef, and four of pork, together with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular, I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of
English beer, which was very acceptable to them.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids,
which being roasted, three of them were sent as
fresh meat to the sailors on board, and the other
two we ate ourselves. After our merry and inno-
cent feast was over, I began to distribute my cargo
among them. First, 1 gave them linen sufficient to
make every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spa-
niards request, made them up six. The thin English
stuffs I allotted to make every one a light coat like a
frock, agreeable to the climate, and left them such a
quantity as to make more upon their decay, as also
pumps, shoes, hats, and stockings. It is not to be ex-
pressed the pleasing satisfaction which fat upon the
countenances of these poor men, when they perceiv-
ed what care I took of them, as if I had been a com-
mon father to them all; and they all engaged never
to leave the island, till I gave my consent for their
departure. I then presented to them the people I
brought, viz. the tailor, smith, and the two car-
penters; but my Jack of all trades was the most ac-
ceptable present 1 could make them. My taiior fell
immediately to work, and made every one of them a
shirt; after which, he learned the women how to,
few and stitch, thereby to become the more helpful
to their husbands. Neither were the carpenters less
useful, taking in. pieces their clumsy things, instead
of which they made convenient and handsome tables,
stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers and shelvcs. But
when I carried them to fee Will Atkins's balket-
houfe, they owned they never saw such a piece of na-
tural ingenuity before: / am sure (said one of the
carpenters) the man that built this has no need of us
you need, Sir, do nothing, but give him ttols.
I divided the tools among them in this manner:
To every man I gave a digging-spade, a shovel, and
a rake, as having no harrows or ploughs; and to
every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw, with a store for a general supply, should
any be broken or worn out. I left them also nails,
staples, hinge6, hammers, chissels, knives, scissars, and
all forts of tools and iron work; and for the use of
the smith, gave them three tons of unwrought iron
for a supply: And as to arms and ammunition, I stor-
ed them even to profusion, or at least to equip a suf-
ficient little army against all opposers whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunate-
ly starved to death), together with the maid, a pious
and well educated young woman, seeing things so
well ordered on shore (for I made them accompany
me), and considering they had no occasion to go so
far a voyage as to the East Indies, they both desired
of me that I would leave them there, and enter them
among my subjects. This I readily agreed to, order-
ing them a plat of ground, on which were three lit-
tle houses erected, environed with baiket-work, pal-
lisadoed like Atkins's, and adjoining to his planta-
tion. So contrived were their tents, that each of
them had a room apart to lodge in, while the middle
tent was not only their storehouse, but their place
for eating and drinking. At this time the two Eng-
239
lifhmen removed their habitation to their former
place; so that now the island was divided into three
colonies; filft* Those I have just now mentioned;
secondly. That of Will Atkins, where there'w*re four
families of Englishmen, with their wives and children:
The widow and her children; the young man and
the maid, who, by the way we made a wife of before
our departure ; three savages, who were slaves; the
tailor, smith (who served also as a gun-smith), and
my other celebrated person called Jack of all trades.
Thirdly, My chief colony, which consisted of the Spa-
niards, with Old Friday, who still remained at my old
habitation, which was my capital city: And surely
never was there such a metropolis, it now being hid
in so obscure a grove, that a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and looked purpose-
ly for it, without being able to find it, though the
Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries, both without
and within, in a most surprising manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the young
French priest of the order of St. BenediB, whose ju-
dicious and pious discourses, upon sundry occasions,
merit an extraordinary observation : ,Nor can his be-
ing a French Papist priest, I presume, give osfence to
any of my readers, when they have this assurance
from me, that he was a person of the most courteous
disposition, extensive charity, and exalted piety. His
arguments were always agreeable to reason, and his
conversation the most acceptable of any person that
I had ever yet met with in my life.
Sir, (said he to me one day) since under God (at
the same time crossing his breast) jw« have not only saved
my life, but bypermitting me to go this voyage, have grant-
ed me the happiness of free conversation, 1 thinh it my du-
ty, as my profession obliges me, to save what fouls I canf
by bringing them to the knowledge of some Cathtlic
doctrine, necessary to salvation; and since these people
are under your immediate government, in gratitude, jus-
tlce, and decency, for .what you have done for me, I offer
no farther points in religion than what shall merit your
approbation. Being pleased with the modesty of his
carriage, I told him he should not be the worse used
for being of a different persuasion, if, upon that ac-
count, we did not differ in points of faith, not de-
cent in a part os the country where the poor Indians
ought to be instructed in the knowledge of the true
God and his Son Jesus Christ. To this he replied,
that conversation might easily be separated from dis-
putes; that he would discourse with me' rather as
a gentleman than a religious; but that-if he did en-
ter upon religious arguments, upon my desiring the
fame, I would give him liberty to defend his own
principles. He farther added, that he would do
all that became him in his ofsice, as a priest as well
as a Christian, to procure the happiness of all that
were in the ship: That though he could not pray
with, he would pray for us, on all occasions: And
then he told me several extraordinary events of his
life, within a few years past, but particularly in this
last, which was the most remarkable: That in this
voyage he had the misfortune to be five times ship-
ped and unshipped: His first design was to have gone
to Martinico, for which taking ship at St. Malo, he
was forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the vessel
running aground in the mouth of the Tagus: That
from thence he went on board a Portuguese ship,
bound to the Madeiras, whose master being but an
indifferent mariner, and out of his reckoning, they
were drove to Fial, where selling their commodity,
which was corn, they resolved to take in their load-
ing at the Isle of May, and to sail to Newfoundland;
at the banks of which, meeting a French ship bound
to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence
to Martinico, in this ship he embarked ; the master
of which dying at Quebec, that voyage was suspend-
ed: And lastly, shipping himself for France, this
I
last ship was destroyed by fire, as be-fore has been re-
lated.
At this time we talked no farther; but another
morning he comes to me, just as I was going to
visit the Englishmens colony, and tells me, that as
he knew the prosperity of the island was my prin-
cipal desire, he had something to communicate a-
greeable to my design, by which perhaps he might
put it, more than he yet thought it was, in the
way of the benediction of Heaven. How, Sir? (said
I, in a surprise) are we not yet in the way of God's
blessing, after all these signal providences and de-
liverances, of which you have had such an ample
relation? He replied, I hope, Sir, you are in the
way, and that your good design will prosper; but
still there are some among you that are not equally
right in their actions ; and remember, I beseech you,
Sir, that Achan, by his crime, removed God's bles-
sing from the camp of the children os Israel; that
though six-and-thirty were entirely innocent, ytft
they became the objects of divine vengeance, and
bore the weight of the punishment accordingly.
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that inslamed his
foul, that I desired him to accompany me to the
Englishmens plantations, which he was very glad of,
by reason these were the subjects of what he design-
ed to discourse with me about; and while we walk-
ed on together, he began in the following manner:
Sir, (said he) I must confess it is a great unhappi-
ness that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of
religion; but surely both of us acknowledge this,
that there is a God, who having given us some stat-
ed rules for our service and obedience, we ought not
willingly and knowingly to osfend him, either by
neglecting what he has commanded} or by doing
what he has forbidden us. This truth every Chris-
I
tian owns, that whenever any one presumptuously
sins against God's command, the Almighty then
withdraws his blessing from him; every good man
therefore ought certainly to prevent such neglect os,
or sin against God and his commands. I thanked
the young priest for expressing so great a concern
for us, and desired him to explain the particulars of
what he had observed, that, according to the pa-
rable of Achan, I might remove the accursed thing
from among us. Why then, Sir, (said he) in the
first place, you have four Englishmen, who have
taken savage women to their wives, by whom they
have several children, though none of them are le-
gally married, as the law of God and man requires;
they, I fay, Sir, are no less than adulterers, and as
they still live in adultery, are liable to the curse of
God. I know, Sir, you may object the want of a
priest, or clergyman of any kind; as also pen, ink*
and paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and have it signed between them. But neither this,
nor what the Spanish governor has told you of their
choosing by coascnt, can be reckoned a marriage,
nor any more than an agreement to keep them from
quarrelling among themselves; for, Sir, the essence
or sacrament of matrimony (so he called it) not only
consists in mutual consent, but in the legal obligation
which compels them to own and acknowledge one
another, to abstain from other persons, the men to
provide for their wives and children, and the women
to do the fame in like conditions, mutatis mutandis on
their side; whereas, Sir, these men, upon their
own pleasure, on any occasion, may forsake those
women, and marry others, and by disowning their
children, suffer them utterly to perish, Now, Sir,
(added he) can God be honoured in such an unlawful
liberty as this? how can a blessing succeed the best
endeavours, if men are allowed to live in so licen-
tious a way? I was indeed struck with the thing my"
2
silf, and thought that they were much to blarhe that
no formal contract had been made, though it had
been but breaking a stick between them, to engage
them to live as man and wife, never to separate, bat
love, cherish, and comfort one another all their lives.
Yet, Sir, (said I) when they took these women, I was
.not here; and if it is adultery, it is past my remedy,
and I cannot help it. True, Sir, (answered the young
priest) you cannot be charged with that part of the crime
which was done in your absence; but I beseech you don't
.flatter yourself that you are under no obligation now to
put a peritd to it, which if you negleft to do, guilt will
be entirely on you alone, since it is certainly in nobody's
power but yours to alter their condition. I must con-
fess I was so dull that I thought he meant I should
part them, and knowing that this would put the
whole island in confusion, I told him I could not con-
sent to it upon any account whatsoever. Sir, (said
he, in a great surprise) Ida not mean that you should se-
parate, but marry them by a written contrail, signed by
both man and woman, and by all the witnesses presents
-which all the European laws decree to be of sufficient effi-
cacy. Amazed with such true piety and sincerity,
and considering the validity of a written contract, I
acknowledged all that he said to be very just and
kind, and that I would discourse with the men
about it; neither could I see what reason they could
have not to let him rharry them, whose authority in
that asfair is owned to be as authentic as if they
were married by any of our clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had so make to me was
this, that though these English subjects of mine had
lived with those women seven years, and though they
were of good understanding, and capable of instruc-
tion, having learned not only to speak, but to read
English, yet all this while they never taught them,
any thing of the Christian religion, or the knowledge
of God, much less in what manner he ought to be
served. 'And is not this an unaccountable negleSl? (said
he, warmly.) Depend upon it, God Almighty will call
them to account for such contempt. And though I am
not of your religion, yet Ishould be glad to see these people
releasedfrom the devil''s power, and be saved by the prin-
ciples of the Christian religion, the hiowledge of God, of
a Redeemer, the refurreEiion, and a future slate. But
as it is not too late, if you please to give me leave to in-
slruil them, I doubt not but 1 shall supply this great de-
feB, by bringing them into the great circle of Chrifliani-
ty} even while you continue in the island.
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what-
ever he requested, and desired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, (said he) it should be a maxim among all Chri-
stians, That Christian knowledge ought to be propagated
by all possible means, and on all occasions. Upon this
account our church fends missionaries into Persia,
India, and China, men who are willing to die for
the fake of God and the Christian faith, in order to
bring poor infidels into the way of salvation. Now,
Sir, as here is an opportunity to convert seven-and-
thirty poor savages, I wonder how you can pass by
such an occasion of doing good, which is really worth
the expence of a man's whole life.
I must confess I was so confounded at this dis-
course, that I could not tell how to answer him.
Sir, (said he, seeing me in disorder) / shall be very
sorry if I have given you offence. No, Sir, (said 1)
I am rather confounded ; and you know my circum-
stances, that being bound to the East Indies in a
merchant ship, I cannot wrong the owners so much
as to detain the ship here, the men lying on victuals
and wages on their account. If I stay above twelve
days, I must pay 3I. Sterling per diem demurrage,
nor must the ship stay above eight days more; so
1
that I am unable to engage in this work, unless I
would leave the ship, and be reduced to my former
condition. The priest, though he owned it was hard
upon me, yet he laid it to my conscience, whether
the blessing of saving seven-and-thirty souls was not
worth venturing all that I had in the world? Sir,
(said I) it is very true ; but as you are an ecclesiastic,
it naturally falls into your profession; why therefore
don't you rather offer to undertake it yourself, than
press me to it? Upon this he turned about, making
a very low bow, I most humbly thank God and you,
Sir, (said he) for so blessed a call ; and most willingly
undertake so glorious an ossice, which will sussicient-
ly compensate all the hazards and dissiculties I have
gone through in a long and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like sire, with all
the signs of the most zealous transports. And when
I asked whether he was in earnest; Sir, (laid he) it
was to preach to the Indians I consented to come
along with you; these infidels, even in this little
island, are infinitely of more worth than my poor
life; if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls, I care not if I
never fee my native country again. One thing I on-
ly beg of you more, is, that you would leave Friday
with me, to be my interpreter, without whose assist-
ance neither of us will understand each other.
This request very sensibly troubled me, first, upon
Friday's being bred a protestant, and secondly, for
the affection I bore to him for his fidelity; but im-
mediately the remembrance of Friday's father com-
ing into my head, I recommended him to him as
having learned Spanish, which the priest also under-
stood, and so was thoroughly satisfied with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had toldi
L3
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they led, told
them what notice the clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men or bachelors?
They answered, two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But (said I) with what
conscience can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawfully
married? They all said that they took them before
the governor as such, having nobody else to marry
them, which they thought as legal as if they hnd had
a parson. No doubt (said I) but in the eye of God
you are so; but unless I am assured of your honest
intention never to desert these poor creatures, I can
do nothing more for you, neither can you expect
God's blessing while you live in such an open course
of adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who spoke for
the rest, told me, that they believed their wives the
most innocent and virtuous creatures in the world;
that they would never forsake them while they had
breath; and that if there was a clergyman in the
ftiip, they would be married to them with all their
heart. I told you before (said I) that I have a mini-
ster with me, who shall marry you to-morrow morru
ing, if you are willing; so I would have you consult
to-night with the rest about it. I told him the cler-
gyman was a Frenchman, and knew not a word of
English, but that I would act as a clerk between
them. And indeed this business met with such speedy
success, that they all told me, in a few minutes after,
that they were ready to be formally married as socti
as I pleased; with which informing the priest, he
was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women should'
be made sensible of the meaning of the thing; with
which being well satisfied, they with their husoands
attended at my apartment the next morning: There
^'35 my priest, habited in a black vest, something
like a cassoc, with a fash round it, much resembling
a minister, and I was his interpreter. But the se-
riousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he made
of marrying the women, who were not baptised,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person:
Nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he ob-
tained my liberty to discourse both with the men and,
women; and then he told them, that in the sight of
all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of
society, they had lived in open adultery, which no-
thing now but their consent to marry, or final sepa-
ration, could put an end to; and even here was a
dissiculty with respect to the laws of Christian matri-
mony, in marrying a profesied Christian to a heathen
idolater, unbaptised; but yet there was time enough
to make them profess the name of Christ, without
which nothing could be done: That besides he be-
lieved themselves very indifferent Christians, and
consequently had not discoursed with their wives up-
on that subject; and that unless they promised him
to do so, he could not marry them, as being express-
ly forbidden by the laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily.
But, Lord, Sir! (said Will Atkins to me) how should,
ive teach them religion, who know nothing of it our-
selves? How can we talk to our wives of God, Jesur
Christ, heaven and hell? why, they would only laugh
at us, who never yet have practised religion, but on the
contrary, all manner of wickedness. Will Atkins, (said
I) cannot you tell your wife she is in the wrong, and
that her gods are idols, which can neither hear,
speak, nor understand; but that our God, who has
made, can destroy all things; that he rewards the
good, and punishes the wicked, and at last will bring
us to judgment? Cannot you tell her these things?
That's true, (said Atkins) but then she'll tell me it is.
utterly false, since I am not punished and sent to the .
devil, who hath been such a wicked creature. These;
L4
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
words I interpreted to the priest. O! (said he) tell
him his repentance will make him a very good mini-
ster to his spouse, and qualify him to preach on the
mercy and long-suffering of a merciful Being, who
desires not the death of a sinner, and even defers
damnation to the last judgment; this will lead him
to the above doctrine, and will make him an excel-
lent preacher to his wife. I repeated this to Atkins,
who, being more than ordinarily affected with it, re-
plied, 1 know all this, Sir, and a great deal more;
but how can I have the impudence to talk thus to
my wife, when my conscience witnesses against me?
alas! said he (with tears in his eyes, and giving a
great sigh), as for repenting, that is for ever past me.
Past you! Atkins, (said I) what do you mean? You
know well enough (said he) what I mean; / mean it
is too late.
When I told the priest what he said, the poor af-
fectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himself, Pray, Sir, (said he) q/k him. if he
is contented that it is too late; or is he concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put fairly to
Atkins, who replied in a passion, How can I be easy
in a slate which I know must terminate in my ruin? For
I really believe, some time or other, I shall cut my throat,
to put a period to my life, and to the terrors of my con-
science.
At this the clergyman shook his head. Sir, (said
he) pray, tell him it is not too late; Chrifl will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of his passion.
Does he think he is beyond the power of divine mercy?
There may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will
no longer slrive, but never too late for men to repent in
this world. I told Atkins every word the priest had
said, who then parted from us to talk to his wife,
while we discoursed with the rest. But these were
very stupid in religious matters, yet all of them pro-
mised to do their endeavours to make their wives
furn Christians ; and upon which promises the priest
married the three couple. But as Atkins was the'
orrfy sincere convert, and of more fense than the rest,
my clergyman was earnestly inquiring after him:
Sir, (said he) let us .walk out of this labyrinth, and I
dare fay weshall find this poor man preaching to his wife
already. And indeed we found it true; for coming
to the edge of the wood, we perceived Atkins and «
his savage wife sitting under the shade os a bush, in
very earnest discourse: He pointed to the sun, to
the quarters of the earth, to himself, to her, the
woods, and the trees. Immediately we could per-
ceive him start upon his feet, fall down upon his
knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the tears
ran down my clergyman's cheeks; but our great
misfortune was, we could not hear one word that
pasted between them. Another time he would em-
brace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kissing her
with the greatest transports, and then both kneel
down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself; and a little after this,
we observed by her motion, as frequently lifting up
her hands, and laying them on her breast, that she
was mightily affected with his discourse; and so
they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to be called in; upon which we agreed to exa--
mine him alone, and so I began thus to discourse
him. Prithee, Will Atkins, (said 1) what education
had you? What was your father?
IV. A. A better man than ever I shall be; he was,,
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or'
correction, which I despised like a brute, as I was,,
and murdered my poor father.
Pr. Ha! a murderer!
[Here the priest started, and looked pale, atthinking,
he. had really killed his father.'},
Li
R. C. 'What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke his
hean, by the most unnatural turn of disobedience to
the tenderest and best os fathers.
R. C. Well, I piay God grant you repentance; I
did not ask you to extort a confession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good than your companions.
IV. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past
life, conscience upbraids me with my father; the sins
'against our parents make the deepest wounds, and
their weight lies the heaviest upon the mind.
R C. You talk, Will, too feelingly and sensibly
for me; I am not able to bear it.
IV. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do: And every shore,
Valley, and tree in this island, witness the anguish
of my soul for my undutifulness to my kind father,
'whom I have murdered likewise: Yet my repent-
ance falls infinitely short of yours. But, Will, how
comes the fense of this matter to touch you just now?
W- A. Sir, the work you have set me about has
occasioned it; for talking to my wife about God and
religion, she has preached me such a sermon that I
fliall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R C. No, no, it is your own moving pious argu-
ments to her has made conscience fling them back
upon you. But pray, Atkins, inform us what passed
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin?
W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage,
the reason of such compacts, whereby order and jus-
tice is maintained; without which men would run
from their wives and children, to the dissolution of
families or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did she say to all this?
W. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the follow-
ing manner, which 1 {hall exactly repeat according
to my m?an capacity, if you think it worth your
while to honour it with your attention.
The Dialogue between Will Atkins and his Wife in
the Wood.
Wife. VOU tell me marriage God appoint; have
*. you God in your country?
W. A. Yes, child, God is in every nation.
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee god is in my
country, not yours.
W. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made;
he also made the earth, the sea, and all that is there-
in.
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago?
W. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch,
having a long time lived without the knowledge of
God in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own na-
tion; No no good ting! No fay O to him? that's
strange!
W. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no
God in heaven for all that.
Wife. Why God susfer this? why makee not live
well?
W. A. It is our" own faults, child.
Wife. But, if he much great, can makee kill, why
no makee kill when to serve him? No be good mans,
no cry O to him.
W. A. That's true, my dear, he may strike us
dead, but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
mercy, nor feared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good, no»
makee kill, when you makee him angry,
ho
W. A. Alas! must my wicked life hinder you
from believing in him?
'Wife. How can me tink your God live there?
(pointing to heaven).. Sure he no ken what you do
here.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees
what we do, ar.d knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn?
W. A. My dear, this shows he is indeed a God, and
not a man, who has such tender mercy. .
Wife. Mercy! what do you call mercy \
W. A. He pities and spares us; as he is our great
Creator, so is .he also our tender Father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked;
then he no good, no great mighty.
W\A. O my dear, don't fay so, he is both; and
many times he shows terrible examples of his judg-
ment and vengeance.
Wife. Then you makee.de bargain with him; you
do bad ting> he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A. No indeed, my sins are all presumptions,
upon his goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead; and
you give him no tankee neither.
W. A. It is true, I am an ungrateful, unthankful
dog that I am.
Wife. Why, you fay, he makee you, why makee
you no much better then?
W. A. It is I alone that have deformed myself*
and abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him angry, no do bad ting.
W. A. You mean, my dear, that ycu desire I
would teach you to know God: Alas! poor dear
creature! He must teach thee, and not I. Cut I'll,
pray earnestly to him to direct thee, and to forgive
253
me, a miserable sinner, sHereupon he went a little
distance, and kneeling down, prayed earnestly to God to
enlighten her mind, and to pardon his fins.: When this
was done, they continued their discourse thus.)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission
to him that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
what you fay?
W. A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray, and has
given us his promise that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid you pray? What, do you
hear him speak?
W. A. No, my dear, but God has spoken former-
ly to good men from heaven: And by divine revela-
tion they have written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. O where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me; but one time or
other I shall get it for you to read. Then he embrar-
ced her with great affection.
Wife. Pray tell a mee did God teachee them write
that book?
W. A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to he
God.
Wife. What way, what rule you know him?
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy, and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do all
things you. fay he do, surely he hear me say O to
him; he makee me good if I wish to be good; he
no kill me if I love him; me tink, believe him great
God; me say O to him, along with you, my dear.
Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made her
kneel down by him, praying with the greatest fervency,
that, Cod would inftrutl her by his Holy Spirit s and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
thus G;d rv his providence would fend them a B:'i/e for
both their injlruElions. And Juch was the early piety of
this new convert, that Jhe made him promise never t»
forsake God any more, lest being made dead, (as she call-
ed it J, she should not only want her 'wslruElor, but him-
self be miserable in a long eternity.
Such surprising account ?.s this was, proved very-
affecting to us both, but particularly to the young
clergyman, who was mightily concerned he could
not talk to her himself. Sir, (said he) there is some-
thing more to be clone to this woman than to marry
her, I mean that she ought to be baptised. To this
I presently agreed: Pray, (said he again) ask her
husband, whether he has ever talked to her of Jesus?
Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of faith,
and redemption in and by him, of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, last judgment, and a future state;
but the poor fellow melted into tears at this question^
saying, that he had said something to her of these
things, but his inability to talk of them made him a-
fraid lest her knowledge of them should rather make
her contemn religion than be benefited by it; but that
if I would discourse with her, it would be very evi-
dent my labour would not be in vain. Accordingly
I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter be-^
tween the religious priest and the woman, I entreat-
ed him to go on: But surely never was such a ser-
mon preached by any clergyman in these latter days,
with so much zeal, knowledge, and sincerity; im
short, he brought the woman to embrace the know-
ledge of Christ, and of redemption by him, with so
surprising a degree of understanding, that she made
it her own request to be baptised.
He then performed his office in the sacrament of
baptism, first, by saying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then asked me to give her a name, a»
being her godfather, and pouring a whole dish fuU
of water upon the woman's head^ he said, Maky^ I
baptise thee in the name oF the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could
know of what religion he was. After this he pro-
nounced the benediction in Latin. Thus the wo-
man being made a Christian, he married her to Will
Atkins; which being finished, he affectionately ex-
horted him to lead a holy life for the future; that
since the Almighty, by the convictions of his con-
science, had honoured him to be the instrument of
his wife's conversion, he should not dishonour the
grace of God, that while the savage was converted,
the instrument should be cast away. Thus ended a
ceremony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable I
ever passed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whose
mother was starved) came to me, faying, that as he
understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englishmen with savages, he had a
match to make between two Christians, which he
desired might be sinished before I departed. Think-
ing that it was he himself that had courted his mo-
ther's maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing
rashly upon the account of his solitary circumstances;
that the maid was an unequal match for him, both
in respect to substance and years -, and that it was
'very probable he would live to return to his own
country, where he might have a far better choice.
At these woriis, smiling, he interrupted me, thank-
ing me for my good advice; that as he had nothing
to beg of me, but a small settlement, with a servant
or two, or some few necessaries, so he hopeel I would
not be unmindful of him when I returned to Eng-
Jand, but give his letters to his friends; and that
when he was redeemed, the plantation and all its
improvements, however valuable, should be return-
ed to me agairj. But as for the marriage he pro-
posed, that it was not himself, but that it was be-
tween my Jack of all trades, and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mention-
ing this match, which seemed very suitable, the one
being a very ingenious fellow, and the other an ex-
cellent, dexterous, and sensible housewife, fit to be
governess of the whole island; so we married them
the same day; and as I was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, appointing
her and her husband a convenient large space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land I left to Will Atkins, who really divided it
very justly to every person's satisfaction: They on-
ly desired one general writing under my hand for the
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed, and
sealed to them, setting out their bounds, and giv-
ing them a right to the whole possession of their re-
spective plantations with their improvements, to them
and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as
my own property, and a certain rent for every parti-
cular plantation after eleven years. As to their laws
and government, I exhorted them to love one an-
other: And as to the Indians who lived in a nook
by themselves, I allotted three or four of them plan-
tations, and the ress t willingly chose to become ser-
vants to the other families, by which means they
were employed in useful labour, and fared much bet-
ter than they did before. Besides, the savages be-
ing thus mixed with the Christians, the work of
their conversion might be set on foot by the latter,
in the clergyman's absence, to our equal satisfaction.
The young priest, however, was a little anxious lest
the Christians should not be willing to dof their
parts in instructing those poor Indians: I therefore
told him, we should call them all together; that he
should speak to the Spaniards who were Papists, and
I to the English who were Protestants, and make
them promise they would never make any distinction.
in religion, but teach the general, true knowledge of .
God, and his son Jesus Christ, in order to convert
the poor savages: And this indeed they all promised
us accordingly.
When I came to Wiil Atkins's house, I found his
baptised wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all trades, were become great inti-
mates, and discoursing of religion together. O Sir,
(says Will Atkins) when God has sinners to recon-
cile to himself, he never wants an instructor : I knew
I was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore
this young woman has been sent hither as it were
from heaven, who is sussicient to convert a whole
island of savages. The young woman blushed, and
was going to rise *, but I desired her to sit still, and
hoped that God would bless her in so good a work:
And then pulling out a Bible (which I brought on
purpose in my pocket for him), Here, Atkins, (said
I) here is an assistant that perhaps you had not be-
fore. So confounded was the poor man, that it was
some time before he could speak ; at last turning to
his wife, My dear, (he said) did I not tell you that
God could hear what we said? Here is the book I
prayed for, when you and I kneeled under the bush;
God then heard us, and now has sent it. The wo-
man was surprised, and thought really God had sent
that individual book from heaven; but I turned to
the young woman, and desired her to explain to the
new convert, that God may properly be said to an-
swer our petitions, when, in the course of his pro-
vidence, such particular things come to pass as we
petitioned for. This the young woman did effectu-
ally; but surely Will Atkins's joy cannot be express-
ed, no man being more thankful for any thing in
the world, than he was for his Bible, nor desired it
from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I desired the
young woman to give me an account of the anguish
shc felt when she was starving to death for hunger \
to which she readily consented, and began in die
following manner:
"Sir, (said she) all our victuals being gone, af-
ter I had fasted one day, my stomach was very sick-
ish, and at the approach cf night I was inclined to
yawning, and sleepy. When I slept upon the couch
three hours, I awaked a little refreshed: Three hours
after my stomach being more and more fickish, I lay
down again, but could not sleep, being very faint
and ill. Thus I passed the second d.iy with a strange
variety, first hunger, then sick again, with reaching*
to vomit: That night I dreamed I was at Barbadocs,
buying plenty of provisions, and dined heartily. But
when I awaked, my spirits were exceedingly funk,
to find myself in the extremity os famine. There
was but one glass of wine, which being mixed with
sugar, I drank up; but for want of substance to di-
gest upon, the fumes of it got into my head, and
made me senseless for some time. The third day I
was so ravenous and furious, that I could have eaten
a little child if it had come in my way; during which
time I wae as mad as any creature in bedlam. In
one of these fits I fell down, and struck my face a-
^ainlt the corner of a pallet bed, where my mistress
lay: The blood gushed out of my nose, but by my
excessive bleeding, both the violence of the fever,
and the ravenous patt of the, hunger abated. After
this I grew sick again, strove to vomit, but could
not; then bleeding a second time, I swooned away
as dead; when I came to myself I had a dreadful
gnawing pain in my stomach, which went off towards
night, with a longing desire for food. 1 took a draught
of water and sugar, but it came up again; then I
drank water without sugar, and that staid with me.
I laid me down on the bed, praying God would take
me away; after I had slumbered, I thought myself
a-dying, therefore recommended my soul to God,
.and wished somebody would throw me into the sea.
All this while my departing mistress lay by me; the
last bit of bread slie had, she gave it to her dear
child, my young master. The morning after, I fell
into a violent passion of crying, and after that into
hunger. I espied the blood that came from my nose
in a bason, which I immediately swallowed up. At
night I had the usual variations, as pain in the sto-
mach, sick, sleepy, and ravenous; and I had no
thought but that I should die before morning. In
the morning came on terrible gripings in my bowels.
At this time I heard my young master's lamentations,
by which I understood his mother was dead: Soon
after the sailors cried, A srtil, a sail, hallooing as if
they were distracted, for joy of that relief, which af-
terwards we received from your hands."
Surely never was a more distinct account of starv-
ing to death than this. But to return to the dis-
position of things among my people', I did not take
any notice to them of the sloop that I had framed,
neither would I leave them the two pieces of brass
cannon, or the two quarter-deck guns that I had
on board, lest, upon any disgust, they ssiould have
separated, or turned pirates, and so made the island
a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober
pious people: But leaving them in a flourishing con-
dition, with a promise to send them further relief
from Brasil, as ssieep, .hogs, and cows (being obli-
ged to kill the latter at sea, having no hay to feed
them), I went on board the ship again, the first of
May 1695, after having been twenty days among
them : And next morning, giving them a salute of
five guns at parting, we set fail for the Brasils. The
third day, towards evening, there happening a calm,
and the current being very strong, we were drove
to the N. N. E. towards the land. Some hours
after we perceived the sea covered as it were with
something very black, not easily at first to be dis-
covered: Upon which our chief mate ascending th*
shrouds a little way, and taking a view with a per-
spective glass, he cries out, An army !—An army,
you fool, (said I) what do you mean? Nay, Sir, (said
he) don't be angry, I assure you it is not only an
army, but a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes paddling along, and making with great
haste towards us.
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this re-
lation: And my nephew the captain could not tell
what to think of it, but thought we should all be
devoured. Nor was I free from concern, when I
considered how much we were becalmed, and what
a strong current set towards the shore: However,
I encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the
ship to an anchor, as soon as we were certain that
we must engage them. Accordingly we did so, and
furled all our fails: As to the savages, we feared
nothing, but only that they might set the ship on
fire; to prevent which I ordered them to get their
boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head,
and the other by the stern, well manned, with sheets
and buckets to extinguish the flames, should it so
happen. The savages soon came up with us, but
there were not so many as the mate had said; for
instead of a thousand canoes, there were only one
hundred and twenty: Too many indeed for us, se-
veral of their canoes containing about sixteen or
seventeen men.
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the
greatest amazement, not knowing what to make of
us. They rowed round the ship, which occasioned
us to call to the men in the boats not to suffer them
to come near them. Hereupon they beckoned to
the savages to keep back, which they accordingly
did; but at their retreat they let fly about fifty ar-
rows among us, .and very much wounded one of
our men in the long-boat. I called to them not to
sire upon any account, but handing them down some
deal boards, the carpenters made them a kind of a
fence to shield them from the arrows. In half an
hour after they came so near astern of us, that sire
had a- perfect sight of them; then they rowed a
little farther out, till they came directly alongside of
us, and then approached so near us, as they could
hear us speak: This made me order all our men to
keep close, and get their guns ready. In the mean
time I ordered Friday to go out upon deck, and ask
them in his language what they meant. No sooner
did he do so, but six of the savages, who were in the
foremost canoe, stooping down, showed us their
naked backsides, as much as to fay in English, kiss
our . But Friday quickly knew what this meant,
by immediately crying out they were going to shoot;
unfortunately for him, poor creature! who fell un-
der the cloud of three hundred arrows, not less than
seven piercing through his body, killing one of the'
hest servants, and faithfullest of companions in all
my solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
the guns, which before were charged with only pow-
der, to frighten them, I ordered to be loaded with
small shot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim,
but at this broadside splir and overset thirteen or
fourteen of their canoes, which killed numbers of
them, and set the rest a-swimm^ng; The others,
frightened out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, scoured away as fast as they could.
One poor wretch our people took up, swimming for
his life,, an hour after. He was very sullen at first,
so that he would neither eat nor speak: But I took
a way to cure him, by ordering them to throw him
into the sea, which they did, and then he came
swimming back like a cork, calling in his tongue, as
I suppose, to save him. So we took him on board,
hut it was a long time before we could make him
speak or understand English; yet when we had
taught him, he told us, they were going with their
kings to sight a great battle: And when we asked
him, what made them come up to us? (he said) to
melee de great wonder look: Where it is to be noted,
that those natives, and these of Africa, always add
two A at the end of English words, as mahee, takee,
and the like, from which it is a very dissicult thing
to make them break off.
Being now under fail, we took our last farewell of
poor honest Friday, and interred him with all pos-
sible decency and solemnity, putting him into a cossin,
and committing him to the deep, at the same time
causing eleven guns to be sired for him. Thus end-
ed the life of one of the most grateful, faithful,
honest, and affectionate servants, that ever any man
was blessed with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for the Brasils, in about
twelve days time we made land in the latitude of five
degrees south of the line. Four days we kept on S»
by E. in sight of shore, when we made Cape St. Augus-
tine, and in three days we came to an anchor off the
Bay of All Saints. I had great dissiculty here to get
leave to hold correspondence on more; for neither the
figure of my partner, my two merchant trustees, nor
the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island-,
could procure me the favour, till such time as the
prior of the monastery of the Augustines (to whom I
had given 500 moidores) obtained leave from the.
governor, for me personally, with the captain and
one mere, together with eight sailors, to come on
shore, upon this condition, that we should not
land any goods out of the ship, or carry any person
away without licence: I found means however to
get on more three bales of English goods, such as
fine broad cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I
brought as a present for my partner, who had sent
'me on board a present os fresh provisions, wine, and
sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including
some tobacco, and three or four sine gold medals.
Here I delivered my partner in goods to the va-
lue of tool. Sterling, and obliged him to sit up the
stoop 1 bought, for the use of my island, in order to
send them refreshments: And so active was he in
this matter, that he had the vessel finished in a few
days, to the master of which I gave particular in-
structions to find the place. I soon loaded him with
rv small cargo and one of our failors offered to settle
there, upon my letter to the Spanish governor, if . I
would allot him tools and a plantation. This I will-
ingly granted, and gave him the savage we had tak-
en prisoner to be his slave. All things being ready
for the voyage, my old partner told me, there was
an acquaintance of his, a Brasil planter, who having
fallen under the displeasure of the church, and in
fear of the Inquisition, which obliged him to be con-
cealed, would be glad of such an opportunity to make
his escape, with his wife and two daughtersand if
I would allot them a plantation in my island, he would
give them a small stock to begin with, for that the
ossicers had already seized his effects and estate, and
left him nothiog but a little household stuff, and two
slaves. This request 1 presently granted, concealing
him and his family on board our ship till such time
as the sloop (where all the effects were) was gone
out of the bay, and then we put them on board, who
carried some materials, and plants for planting sugar-
canes, along with them. By this sloop, among other
things, I sent my subjects three milk cows and five
calves, about 22 hogs, three sows big with pig, two
mares and a stone horse. I also engaged three Portugal
women to go for sake of the Spaniards, which, with
the persecuted man's two daughters, were sussicient,
since the rest had wives of their own, though in an-
other country: All which cargo arrived safe, no doubt,
to their exceeding comfort, who, with this addition,
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
At this place my truly honest and pious clergy,
man left me; for a ship being ready to set fail for
Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you, it was with the greatest reluctancy I parted from
a person, whose virtue and piety merited the greatest
esteem. '*
From the Brasils we made directly over the At-
lantic Ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a
tolerable good voyage, steering for the most part S.
E.' We were on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all the ship's mo-
tions after she arrived at the Cape; only being limit-
ed to a certain number of days, or stay, by charter-
party, at the several ports she was to go to. At the
Cape we only took in fresh water, and then sailed
for the coast of Coromandel: We were there inform-
ed, that a French man of war of 50 guns, and two
large merchant ships, were sailed for the Indies, but
we heard no more of them.
In our passage we touched at the island of Mada-
gascar, where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, and go constantly armed with
bows and lances, yet for some time they treated us
civilly enough; and, in exchange for knives, scissars,
and other trisles, they brought us eleven good fat
bullocks, which we took partly for present fresh vic-
tuals, and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as often as I
could. One evening, when on shore, we observed
numbers of the people standing gazing at us at a dis-
tance. We thought ourselves in no danger, as they
had hitherto used us kindly. However, we cut three
boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance
from us, which, it seems, in that country, is not
only a token of truce and amity, but when poles or
boughs are set up on the other side, it is a sign the
truce is accepted. In these treaties, howerer, there
is one principal thing to be regarded, that neither
party come beyond one another's three poles or
boughs; so that the middle space is not only se-
cure, but is also allowed as a market for trassic and
commerce: When the truce is thus accepted, they
stick up their javelins and lances at the first poles,
and come on unarmed; but if any violence is osfer-
ed, away they run to their poles, take up their wea-
pons, and then the truce is at an end. This even-
ing it happened that a greater number of people than
usual, both men and women, traded among us for
such toys as we had, with such great civility, that
we made us a little tent of large boughs of trees,
some of the men resolving to lie on shore all night.
But, for my part, I and some others took our lod-
ging in the boat, with boughs of trees spread over it,
having a sail spread at the bottom to lie upon. A-
bout two o'clock in the morning, we were awakened
by the firing of muskets, and our men crying out
for help, or else they would all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to get the boat ashore, when our men
came plunging themselves into the water, with a-
bout four hundred of the islanders at their heels.
We took up seven of the men, three of them very
much wounded, and one left behind killed, while
the enemy poured their arrows so thick among us,
that we were forced to make a barricade, with boards
lying at the side of the boat, to shield us from dan-
ger: And having got ready our fire-arms, we re-
turned them a volley which wounded several of
them, as we could hear by their cries. In this con-
dition we lay till break of day, and then making
signals of distress to the ship, which my nephew the
captain heard and understood, he weighed anchor
and stood as near the shore as possible, and then
sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us
but we called to them not to come near, informing
M
them os our unhappy condition. However, they
ventured; when one of the men taking the end of a
tow-line in his one hand, and keeping, our boat be-
tween him and our adversaries, swam on board us,
and made fast our line to the boat; upon this, flip-
ping our cables, they towed us out of the reach of
their arrows, and quickly after, a broadside was gi-
ven them from the ship, which made a most dread-
ful havoc among them. When we got on board, we
examined into the occasion of this fray; the men
who fled informed us, that an old woman, who fold
milk within the poles, had brought a young woman
with her, who carried roots or herbs, the sight of
whom so much tempted our men, that they offered
rudeness to the maid, at which the old woman set up
a great cry; nor would the sailors part with the
prize, but carried her among the trees, while the
old woman went and brought a whole army down
upon them. At the beginning of the attack one of
our men was killed with a lance, and the fellow, who
began the mischief, paid dear enough for his mis-
tress, though as yet we did not know what had become
of him the rest luckily escaped. The third night
after the action, being curious to understand how
affairs stood, I took the supercargo, and twenty stout
fellows with me, and landed about two hours before
midnight, at the fame place where those Indians
stood the night before, and there we divided our
men into two bodies, the boatswain commanding
one, and I another. It was so dark that we could
see nobody, neither did we hear any voice near us:
But by and by the boatswain falling over a dead body,
we agreed to halt till the moon ihpuld rise, which
we kni-vv would be in an hour after. We perceived
here no fewer than two-and-thirty bodies upon the
giound, whereof two were- not quite dead. Satis-
Sec with this discovery, I was for going on board
again; but the boatswain and the rest told me, they
would make a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs (so they called them) resided, asking me at
the same time to go along with them i for they did
not doubt, besides getting a good booty, but they
should find Tom Jeffery there, for that was the
unhappy man we missed. But I utterly refused to
go, and commanded them back, being unwilling to
hazard their lives, as the safety of the ship wholly
depended upon them. Notwithstanding all I could
fay to them, they all left me but one, and the su-
percargo: So we three came back to the boat, where
a boy was left, resolving to stay till they returned.
At parting I told them I supposed most of them
would run the same fate with Tom Jeffery. To
this they replied, Come boys, come along, we ll .war-
rant "we'll come off safe enough: And ib away they
went, notwithstanding all my admonitions, either
concerning their own safety, or the preservation of
the ship. Indeed they were gallantly armed, every
man having a musket, bayonet, and a piltol, besides
Cutlasses, hangers, pole-axes, and hand-granades.
They came to a few Indian houses at firlt, which
not being the town they expected, they went far-
ther, and rinding a cow tied to a tree, they conclud-
ed that she would be a sussicient guide, and so it
proved; for after they untied her, she led them di-
rectly to the town, which consisted of above two
hundred houses, several families living in some of
the huts together. At their arrival, all being 'in a
profound lleep, the sailors agreed to divide them-
selves into three bodies, and set three parts of the
town on fire at once; to kill those that were escaping,
and plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperate-
ly resolved they went to work; but the first party
had not 'gone far, before they called out to the rest,
that they had found Tom Jessery; whereupon they
all ran up to the place, and found the poor fellow
indeed hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat
M 2
cut almost from ear to ear. In a house that was
hard by the tree they found sixteen or seventeen In-
dians, who had been concerned in the fray, two or
three of them being wounded, who were not gone
to sleep; this house they set on fire first, and in a
few minutes after, five or six places more in the
town appeared in slames. The conflragation spread
like wild- fi»e, their houses being all of wood, and
covered with slags or rushes. The poor affrighted
inhabitants endeavoured to run out to save their
lives, but they were driven back into the slames by
the sailors, and killed without mercy. At the first
house above mentioned, after the boatswain had slain
two with his pole-axe, he threw a hand granad'e
into the bouse, which bursting, made a terrible ha-
voc, killing and wounding most of them; and
their king and most of his train, who were then in
that house, fell victims to their fury, every crea-
ture of them being either smothered or burnt. All
this while they never fired a gun, lest the people
should awaken faster then they could overpower
them. But the fire awakened them fast enough,
which obliged our fellows to keep together in bodies.
By this time the whole town was in a slame, yet
their fury rather increased, calling out to one an-
other to remember Tom Jeffery. The terrible light
of this conflragation made me very uneasy, and
roused my nephew the captain, and the rest of his
men, who knew nothing of the matter. When he
perceived the dreadful smoke, and heard the guns
go off, he readily concluded his men were in danger;
he therefore takes another boat, and comes ashore
himself, with thirteen men weli armed. He was
greatly surprised to see me and only two men in the
boat, but more so when I told him the story; but
though I argued with him, as I did with his men,
about the danger of the voyage, the interests of the
merchants and owners, and the safety of the ship,
yet my nephew, like the rest, declared, that he
would rather lose the ship, his voyage, his life and
all, than his men should be lost for want of help;
and so away he went. For my part, seeing him re-
solved to po, I had not power to stay behind. He
ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men more,
and then we marched directly as the slame guided
us. But surely never was such a scene of horror be-
held, or more dismal cries heard, except when O-
liver Cromwell took Drogheda in Ireland, where he
neither spared man, woman, nor child.
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two more burnt
to death among the fire, which was now decaying.
Nothing could appear more barbarous than this re-
venge; none more cruel than the authors of it. As
we went on, the fire increased, and the cry proceed-
ed in proportion. We had not gone much farther,
when we beheld three naked women, followed by
sixteen or seventeen men, flying with the greatest
swiftness from our men, who shot one of them in
our sight. When they perceived us, whom they sup-
posed also their murderers, they set up a most dread-
ful shriek, and both of them swooned away in the
fright. This w/as a sight which might have softened
the hardest heart; and in pity we took some ways
to let them know we would not hurt them, while
the poor creatures, with bended knees and lift-up
hands, made piteous lamentations to save their lives.
I ordered our men not to hurt any of the poor crea-
tures whatsoever; but being willing to understand
the occasion of all this, I went among these unhap-
py wretches, who neither understood me nor the
good I meant them. However, being resolved to
put an end to this barbarity, I ordered the men to
follow me. We had not gone fifty yards before we
came up with the boatswain, with four of our men
at his heels, all of them covered with blood and dustj
and in search of more people to-satiate their ven-
geance. As soon as we saw them, we called out, and
made them understand who we were; upon which
they came up to us, setting up a halloo of triumph, in
token that more help was come. Noble Captain, (said
he to my nephew) I am glad you are come: We
have not half done with these villanous hell-hound
dogs; we will root out the very nation of them from
the earth, and kill more than poor Tom has hairs
upon his head : And thus he went on till I interrupt-
ed him. Blood-thirsty dog ! (said I) will your cruelty
never end? I charge you to touch not one creature
more; stop your hands, and stand still, or you are a
dead man this moment. Why, Sir, (said he) you
neither know who you are protecting, nor whav they
have done; but pray come hither, and behold an
instance of compassion, if such can merit your cle-
mency; and with that he showed me the poor fel-
low with his throat cut, hanging upon the tree.
Indeed here was enough to sill their breasts with
rage, which however I thought had gone too far, a-
greeable to these„words of Jacob to his sons Simeon
and Levi: Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and
their wrath, for it was cruel. But this sight made my
nephew and the' rest as bad as they; nay, my ne-
phew declared, his concern was only for his men;
as for the people, not a foul of them ought to live.
Upon this the boatswain and eight more directly turn-
ed about, and went to finish the intended tragedy;
which being out of my power to prevent, I returned
back both from the dismal sight, and the piteous
cries of those unfortunate creatures, who were made
victims to their fury. Indeed it was an egregious
piece of folly in me to return to the boat with but
one attendant; and I had very near paid for it, hav-
ing narrowly escaped forty armed Indians, who had
been alarmed by the conslagration; but having passed
the place where they stood, I got to the boat accom-
panied with the supercargo, and so went on board',
sending the pinnace back again, to assist the men
in what might happen. When I had got to the boat,
the fire was almost extinguished, and the noise was
abated; but I had scarce-- been half an hour on board
the ship, when I heard another volley given by our
failors, and a great smoke, which, as I afterwards
found, was our men falling upon those houses and
persons that stood between them and the sea; but
here they spared the wives and children, and killed
about sixteen or seventeen men. And so they came
strolling down to the pinnace, which at that time
was gotten on shore to receive them. Not a man
of them had received the least hurt, except two, one
of whom sprained his foot, and the other burnt his
hand a little, having met with no resistance, the poor
Indians being unprepared, amazed, and confounded.
Indeed I was extremely angry with every one of
them, but particularly the captain, who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
to farther mischief: Nor could he make any other
excuse, but that, as he was a man, he could not ma-
ster his passions at the sight of one of his men so
cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing they
were not under my command, they took no notice of
my anger, but rather boasted of their revenge; and,
according to all their accounts, they killed or destroyed
about 150 men, women, and children, besides burn-
ing the town to ashes. They took their companion
Tom Jeffery from the tree, covered him with some
of the ruins, and so left him. But, however justifi-
able this action of our men might seem to them-
selves, yet I always openly condemned it, with the
appellation of the massacre of Madagascar: For
though they had slain this Jeffery, yet he was cer-
tainly the first aggressor, by attempting to violate the
chastity of a young innocent woman, who ventured
M 4
down to them on the faith of the public capitulation,
which was so treacherously broken.
We were now under sail, when the boatswain
would defend this bloody action, by saying, That the
Indians had broke the truce the night before, by
shooting one of our men without just provocation:
And what if the poor fellow had taken a little liber-
ty with the wench! he ought not to have been mur-
dered in so villanous a manner; and that they had
acted nothing but what the divine laws commission-
ed to be done to such homicides. However, I was in
the seme mind as before, telling them that they were
murderers, and bid him depend upon ir, that God
would blast their voyage for so unparallelled a piece
of barbarity.
'When we came into the Gulf of Persia, five os our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed, or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them hav-
ing scarce time to escape to their boat. This made
me upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of
Heaven for such actions : Upon which the boatswain
very warmly asked me, whether thoso men on whom
the tower os Siloam fell were greater sinners than
the rest of the Galileans? And besides, Sir, (said he)
none of these five poor men. that are lost, were
with us at the massacre of Madagascar, as you call
it, and therefore your reprehension is very unjust,
and your application improperly applied. Besides,
(added he) you are continually using the men very
ill upon this account, and being but a passenger your-
self, we are not obliged to bear it: nor can we tell
what ill designs you may have to t ring us to judg-
ment for it in England; and therefqre, if you do not
leave this discourse, and not concern yourself with
any of our affairs, I will leave the ship, and not fail
in such dangerous company.
All this I heard very patiently, till at length I
told him what concern I had on board was none of
his business; that, however, I was a considerable
owner of the ship, and therefore had a right to
speak in common, and that I was no way accountable
to him, nor to any body else. As no more passed
for some time after, I thought all had been over.
At this time we were in the road of Bengal, where,
going on shore with the supercargo, one day, in the
evening, as I was preparing to go on board, one of
the men came to me, and told me, I need not trouble
myself to come to the boat, for that the cockswain
and others had ordered him not to carry me on
board any more. This insolent message much sur-
prised me; yet I gave him no answer to it, but went
directly and acquainted the supercargo, entreating
him to go on board, and by acquainting the captain
with it, preveht the mutiny which I perceived would
happen. But before I had spoken this, the matter
was effected on board: For no sooner was he gone
off in the boat, but the boatswain, gunner, carpenter,
and all the inferior ossicers, came to the quarter-
deck, desiring to speak with the captain; and there
the boatswain made a long harangue, exclaiming a-
gainst me, as before mentioned; that if I had not
gone ashore peaceably for my own diversion, they
by violence would have compelled me for their satis-
faction; that as they had stripped with the captain,
so they would faithfully serve him; but if I did not
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to it, they
"would leave the ship immediately; hereupon, turn-
ing his face about by way of signal, they all cried out,
ONE and ALL, ONE and ALL.
You may be sure, that though my nephew was
a man of great courage, yet he could not but be sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behaviour:
And though he talked stoutly to them, and after-
wards expostulated with them, that in common jus-
tice to me, who was a considerable owner in the strip,,
they could not turn me, as it were, out of my own*
M 5
house, which might bring their lives in clanger, should
they ever be taken in England; nay, though he in-
vited the boatswain on shore to accommodate mat-
ters with me, yet all this, I fay, signified nothing:
They would have nothing to do with me, and they
were resolved to go on shore, if I came on board.
Well, (said my nephew) if you are so resolved, per-
mit me to talk with him, and then I have done:
And so he came to me, giving me an account of
their resolution, how one and all designed to forsake
the ship when I came on board, for which he was
mightily Concerned. I am glad to fee you, nephew,
(said I) and rejoice it is no worse, since they have
not rebelled against you: I only desire you to send
my necessary things on shore, with a susficient sum
of money, and I will find my way to England as
well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew
to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compli-
ance; in short, all my necessaries were sent me, and
so this matter was over in a few hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther
ossEngland by sea than at my little kingdom, Sxcept
this difference, that I might travel by land over the
Great Mogul's country,ro Surat, from thence up to
Bassora, by sea up the Persian Gulf, then take the
way of the caravans over the Arabian Desert to Alep-
po and Scanderoon, there take shipping to Italy, and
so travel by land into France, aud from thence cross
the sea to England. '.'
My nephew lest me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk to
the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took lodg-
ings in an English woman's house, where several
French, one English, and two Italian merchants re-
sided. The handsome entertainment I met with
here occasioned me to stay nine months, .consider-
ing what course I should take. Some English goods
I had with me of great value, besides a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credence for more,
if there was any such necessity. The goods I soon
disposed of to advantage, and bought here several
good diamonds, which I could easily carry about
with me. One morning the English merchant came
to me, as being very intimate together; Countryman,
(said he) I have a projecl to communicate to you, which,
I hope, will suit to both our advantage. To be short,
Sir, we are both in a remote part of the world from our
country, but yet in a place where men of business may get
a great deal of money. Now, if you will put a thousand
ptundi to my thousand piunds, we will hire aship to our
satisfaclion; you shall be captain, I will be merchant,
and we'll go a trading voyage to China ; for why should
we lie still like drones, while the whole world is in a
continual motion?
This proposal soon got my consent, being very a-
greeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
sincere person. It required some time before we
could get a vessel to our mind, and sailors to man it
accordingly; at length we bought a ship, and got an
English mate, boatswain, and gunner, a Dutch car-
penter, and three Portuguese foremast-men; and,
for want of others made shift with Indian seamen.
We first sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and then to Siam, where we bartered our wares for
some arrack and opium, the last of which bore a
great price among the Chinese; in a word, we went
up to Suikan, making a very great voyage; and,
after eight months time, I returned to Bengal, very
well satisfied with this adventure, having not only
got a sussicient quantity of money, but an insight of
getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the spice islands, and bring home a
load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts,,
islands belonging partly to Spain, but where the.
M 6
Dutch trade very considerably. We were not long
preparing for this voyage, which we made no less
successful than the last, touching at Borneo, and se-
veral other places which I do not perfectly remem-
ber, and returning home in about five months time.
We soon sold our spices, which were chiefly cloves,
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who
carried them away for the gulf; and, in short, mak-
ing five to one advantage, we were loaded with
money.
Not long aster my friend and I had made up our
accounts, to our entire fatisfaction, there came in a
Dutch coaster from Batavia, of about two hundred
tons. The crew of this vessel pretended themselves
so sickly, that there were not hands sussicient to un-
dertake a voyage, and the captain having given out
that he intended to go to Europe, public notice was
given that the ship was to be lold. No sooner did
this come to our ears, but we bought the ship, paid
the master, and took possession. We would also
have very willingly entertained some of the men:
But they having received their share of booty, were
not to be sound, being altogether fled to Agra, the
great city of the Mogui's residence ; and from thence
were to travel to Surat, and so by sea to the Persian
Gulf. And indeed they had reason to fly in this
manner: For the truth of it was, the pretended cap-
tain was the gunner only, and not the commander:
That having been on a trading voyage, they were
attacked on ftore by the Malayans, who killed three
men and the captain: After whose death the other
eleven men run away with_ the ship to the Bay of
Bengal, and left the mate and other five men more
on sliore; but of this affair we shall have occasion to
speak at more length hereafter.
However they came by the ship, we thought we
bought it honestly; neither did we suspect any thing
of the matter; when the man showed us a bill of
277
sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) to one Ema-
ii uel Clollershoven, which name he went by. And
so without any more to do, we picked up some Dutch
and English seamen, resolving for another voyage
for cloves among the Philippine and Malacca islands.
In short, we continued thus five or fix years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary success; in the
seventh year we undertook a voyage to China, design-
ing to touch at Siam, and buy some rice by the way.
In this voyage, contrary winds beat us up and down
for a considerable time among the islands in the
Str*its of Malacca. No sooner were we clear of
those rugged seas but we perceived our ship had
sprung a-leak, which obliged us to put into the river
Cambodia, which lies northward of the gulf, and
goes up to Siam.
One day as 1 was on shore refreshing myself, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board an English East-India ship, riding up
the river, near the city of Cambodia; Sir, (said he)
you may wonder at my business, having never seen me
in your life; but though 1 am a sranger, I have some-
thing to tell you that very nearly concerns you ;. and in-
deed it is the imminent danger you are in has moved me
to give to you this.timely notice. Danger! (said I) what
danger ? I know of none, except my ship being leaky,
for which I design to have run her aground to-mor-
row morning. Sir, (faid he) I hope you will be better
employed, whtn you shall hear what 1 have to say to you.
Tou know the town os Cambodia is about 15 leagues up
this river: About three leagues on this fide of it, there
lie two Dutch and three English ships. And would you
venture here, without considering what strength you
have to engage them? I knew not what he meant by
this discourse, and turning short upon him, Sir, (said
I) I know no reason I have to be afraid either of any
English or Dutch ships. I am no interloper, and
what business have they then with me i Well, Sir^
(said the man) if you do think yourself secure, all as I
can Jay, you muft take your chance; however, 1 am very
sorry yen are so deaf to good advice, but I assure you, if
you do nit put to sea immediately, you will be attacked
by five long-boats full of men, hanged yourselffor a pi-
rate, if you are taken, and the particulars examined af-
terwards. 1 thought, Sir, (added he) / might have
'tnet with better reception for such a singular piece ofser-
vice. Sir, (said I) I never was ungrateful to any man:
But pray explain yourself and 1 will go on board this
minute, whether the leak be stopped or no. Why,
Sir, (said he) to be short, because time is precious,
the matter is this: You know well enough that you was
with the ship at Sumatra, where your captain was mur-
dered by the Malayans, with three of his sailors, and
that either you, or some who were on board you, ran a-
way with the ship, and are since turned pirates at sea.
Now, Sir, this is the sum of what I had to say; and
I can positively assure you, that if you be taken, you will
be executed without much ceremony ; for undoubtedly you
cannot but be sensible what little law merchant ships show
to pirgtes, whenever they fall into their unmerciful hands.
Sir, (said I) I thank you for your kind information:
And though I am sure no man could come more
honestly by the ship than I have done, yet knowing-
their enterprise, and being satisfied of your honest-
intention, I will be upon my defence. Prithee, Sir,
(said the man) don't talk of being upon your defence, the
best you can make is to be out of danger; and therefore,
if you have any regard to your life, and the lives of your
men, take the advantage, without fail, of putting out to
sea at high water; by which means, as you have a whole
tide before you, you will be too far out if their reach be-
fore they can come down.
I am mighty well satisfied, (said I) in this particu-
lar, and of your kindness, which merits my greatest
esteem. Fray Sir, what amends shaH I make you t
He replied> / know not what amends you are willing .
to make, because you miy have some doubts of its certain-
ty; bat to convince you of the truth of what I fay, I have
one offer to make to you. On board one of the English
Jhips, I have nineteen months pay due it me, and this
Dutchman that is with me has seven months pay due to
him, which if you will make good to us, we will go
along with you. If youshallfind, that there is nothing in
what we have said, then we shall desire nothing; but
when you are convinced that; we have saved the ship,
your life, and the lives of the men, we will leave the
whole to your generosity.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I
immediately consented, and we went directly on
board. As soon as we came on board, my partner
calls joyfully out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well, thank God, (said I) but pray let us weigh,
anchor forthwith. Weigh! (said he) what is the
meaning of this hurry? Pray ask no questions, (said
1) but all hnnds to work, without losing a moment's
time: Upon which, in great surprise, the captain
was called, who immediately ordered the anchor to
be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet being assisted with a little land breeze, we stood
out to sea. I then called my partner into the cabin,
and related the story at large, which was confirmed,
and more amplified by the two men I had brought
on board. Scarce had we finished our discourse
upon this head, but a sailor came to the cabin-door,
with a message from the captain, that we were chaced
by five sloops full of armed men. Very well, (said I)
it is plain now there is something in it. And so go-
ing upon deck, I told all the men there was a design
for seizing the ship, and of executing us for pirates;
and asked them, whether they would faithfully stand
by us, and by one another? To which they unani-
mously replied, that they would fight to their last-
drop of blood. I then asked the captain, which
way he thought best for us to manage the battle?
Sir, (said he) the only method is to keep them off with
our great/hot as long as we are able, and then have re-
course to our small arms: And when both these fail us,
then retire to close quarters, when perhaps the enemy,
wanting materials, can neither break open our bulk heads,
nor get in upon us. Meantime the gunner was order-
ed to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out of the
steerage, and to load them with musket bullets, and
small pieces of old iron; and the deck being cleared,
we prepared for the engagement, still however keep-
ing out at sea. The boats followed us with all the
fail they could make, and we could perceive the two
foremost were English, which outsailed the rest by
two leagues, and which we found would come up
with us: Hereupon we sired a gun without ball,
intimating that they should bring to, and we put
out a slag of truce, as a signal for parley; but find-
ing them crowding after us, till they came with-
in shot, we took in our white, and hanging out the
red slag, immediately fired at them with ball; We
then called to them with a speaking trumpet, bidding
them at their peril keep osf.
But all this signified nothing; for depending upon
the strength that followed them, they were resolute-
ly bent for mischief: Hereupon I ordered them to
bring the ship to, by which means, they lying upon our
broadside, we let fly at them at once; one of our shot
carried away the stern of the hindennost boat, and
obliged them not only to take down their sail, but
made them all run to the head of the boat, to keep
them from sinking; and so she lay by, having enough
of it. In the mean time we prepared to welcome
the foremost boat in the same manner. While we
were doing this, one of the three hindermost boat*
came up to the relief of that which was disabled, and
took the men out of her. We again called to parley
with them •, but instead of an answer, one of the boats
a.
28l
came close under our stern; whereupon our gunner
let fly his two chafe-guns, but missing, the men in
the boat shouted, and waving their caps, came on
with greater fury. To repair this seeming disgrace,
the gunner soon got ready, and siring the second
time, did a great deal of mischief among the enemy.
We waved' again, and bringing our quarter to bear
upon them, fired three guns more, when we found
the boat a-sink'ing, and several men already in the
sea; hereupon, manning our pinnace, I gave orders
to save as many as they could, and instantly ro come
on board, because the rest of their boats were ap-
proaching: Accordingly they did so, and took up
three of them, one of whom was almost past recove-
ry; and then crowding all the fail we could, after
our men came on board, we stood out farther to sea,
so that the other three boats gave over their chace,
when they came up to the first two. Thus deliver-
ed from imminent danger, we changed our course to
the eastward, quite out of the way of all European
ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly
of the two seamen the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once, let us into the secret. He told
us that the fellow who sold us the ship, was an ar-
rant thief, who had run away with her; that the
captain was treacherously murdered on the coast of
Malacca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being obli-
ged to have recourse to the woods for their safety,
at length escaped by means of a Dutch ship,- m its
way to China, which had sent their boat on shore
for frelh water: That, after this he went to Batavia,
where two of the seamen belonging to the ship (who
had defeated the rest in their travels) arrived, and
there gave an account that the fellow who ran away
with the ship had sold her at Bengal to a set of pi-
rates, who went a-cruising, and had already taken
one English and two Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more,
by reason had we fallen into their hands, we could
have expected nothing from them but immediate
death, considering our accusers would have been our
judges: And therefore his opinion was, to return
directly to Bengal, where being known; we could
prove how honestly we came by the ship, of whom
we bought her, and the like, and where we were
sure of some justice; at least would not be hanged
first, and judged afterwards. I was at first of my
partner's opinion; but when I had more seriously
considered of the matter, I told him we ran a great
hazard in attempting to return, being on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if, upon a-
larm given, we should be taken by the Dutch off Ba-
tavia, or English elsewhere, our running away would
be a sufficient evidence to condemn us. This dan-
ger indeed startled not only my partner, but likewise
all the ship's company; so we changed our former
resolution, and resolved to go to the coast of Ton-
quin, and so to that of China, where pursuing our
first design as to trade, we might likewise have an
opportunity to dispose of the ship some way or other,
and to return to Bengal in any country vessel we
could procure. This being agreed to, we steered
away N. N. E. about fifty leagues off the usual course
to the east, which put us to some inconveniencies.
As the wind blew steadily against us, our voyage be-
came very tedious, and we began to be afraid of
want of provision; and what was still worse, we ap-
prehended, that as those ships, from whose boats we
had escaped, were bound to China, they might get
before us and have given fresh information, which
might create another vigorous pursuit. Indeed I
could not help being grieved, when I considered that
I, who had never wronged or defrauded any person
in my life, was now pursued like a common thief;.
and, if taken, to run the greatest danger of being
executed as such; and, though innocent, I found
myself under the necessity of flying for my safety;
nnd thereby escape being brought to shame, of which
I was even more afraid than of death itself. It was
easy to read my dejection in my countenance. My
mind was oppressed, like those unhsppy innocent
persons, who, being overpowered by blasphemous
and perjured evidences, wickedly resolved to take
away their lives, or ruin their reputation, have no
other recourse in this world, to ease their sorrow,
but sighs, prayers, and tears. My partner seeing me
so concerned, encouraged me as well as he could;
and, after describing to me the several ports of that
coast, he told me, he would either put in on the coast
of Cochinchina, or else in the bay of Tonquin, from
whence we might go to Macao, a town once posses-
sed by the Portuguese, and where still many Euro-
pean families reside.
To this place we steered, and early next morning
came in sight of the coast; but thought it advisable
to put into a small river, where we could, either
over-land or by the ship's pinnace, know what ves-
sels were in any ports thereabouts. This happy step
proved our' deliverance; for next morning there
came to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch ihips, and
a third without any colours; and, in the evening
two English ships steered the fame course. The river
where we were was hut small, and run but a few
leagues up the country northward: The country was
wild and barbarous, and the people thieves, having
no correspondence with any other nation, dealing on-
ly in fish, oil, and such gross commodities; and one
barbarous custom they still retained, that when any
vefltl was unhappily shipwrecked upon their coast,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
they make the men prisoners or slaves; so that now
we might fairly say we were surrounded by enemies
both by sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the oppor-
tunity, in this place, to search her, and to stop up
the places which let in the water. We accordingly-
lightened her, and bringing our guns and other
moveable things to one side, we essayed to bring her
down, that we might come at her bottom : But, upon
second consideration, we did not think it safe to let
her lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the place
convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used to such
a sight as to fee a ship lie down on one side, and
heel it towards the shore, not perceiving her men,
who were at work on her bottom, with stages and
boats on the off-side, presently imagined the ship had
been cast away, and lay fast on the ground. Agree-
able to this supposition they surrounded us with ten
or twelve large boats, with a resolution, undoubtedly,
to plunder the ship, and to carry away those they
found alive for slaves to their king. But when they
perceived our men hard at work on the ship's bot-
tom and side, washing, graving, and stopping her, it
filled them all with such surprise, that they stood ga-
zing, as though they were confounded. Nor could we
imagine what their design was; however, for fear of
danger, we handed down arms and ammunition to
those at work, in order to defend themselves ; and
indeed this precaution was absolutely necessary; for,
in a quarter of an hour after, the natives, conclud-
ing it was really a shipwreck, and that we were sav-
ing our lives and goods, which they thought be-
longed to them, came down' upon our men, as
though it had been in a line of battle. We lay at
present but in a very unfit posture to fight; and be-
fore the stages could be got down, or the men in the
boat come on board as they were ordered, the Co-
chinchineses were upon them, and two of their boats
boarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold of
our men as prisoners. The sirst they seized was a
stout English sailor, who never fired his musket, like
a fool, as, I imagined, but laid it down in the boat;
but he knew what he was doing; for by main force
he dragged the Pagan out of the boat into ours, by
the two ears, and knocked his brains out against the
boat's gunnel: A Dutchmen that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down sive
more with the butt end of it-, however, this was doing
very little to their number; but a strange unexpect-
ed accident, which rather merits laughter than any
thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams,
where he caulked, to stop the leaks, had gotten
two kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, oil,
and such stusf as the shipwrights use: The carpen-
ter's man had a great iron laddie with which he
used to supply the workmen with hot stuff, and as
two of the enemies entered the boat where the fel-
low stood, he saluted them with a full laddie of the
hot boiling liquor, which, the poor creatures being
half naked, made them roar out and jump into the
sea. Well done, Jack, (says the carpenter) i;ive them
the other doze: and so stepping forward himself,
takes a mop, and dipping it into the pitch-pot, he
and his man so plentifully flung it among them, as
that none escaped being scalded: Upon which they
all made the best of their way, crying and howling
in such a frightful manner, that in all my adventures
I never heard the like. And indeed never was I bet-
ter pleased with any conquest ihan I was with this,
there being so little bloodshed, and having an aver-
sion to killing such savage wretches (more than was
necessary), as knowing they came on errands which
their laws and customs made them think were just
and equitable. By this time, all things being in or-
der, and the ship swimming, they found their mis-
take, so they did not venture a second attack: Thus
ended our merry sight; and having got some rice,
bread, roots, and sixteen good hogs on board the
day before, we set sail, not daring to go into the
bay of Tonquin, but steered N. E. towards the islc
of Formosa, or as though we would go to the Manil-
las, or Philippine islands, for fear of meeting with
any European ships. When we anchored at the
isle Formosa, the inhabitants not only courteously
supplied us with provisions and fresh water, but dealt
very fairly and honestly with us in their bargains and
agreements. From this place we steered north, keep-
ing still off the coast of China, till we were beyond
all its ports where European ships usually come; and
at length being come to the latitude of thirty de-
grees, we resolved to put into the first trading port
we should come at; and standing for the shore, a.
boat came off two leagues to us with an old Portu-
guese pilot onboard, who offered his service; we
very gladly accepted him, and sent the boat back
again. And now, having the old man on board, I
talked to him of going to Nanquin, the most north-
ward part of the coast of China. 'What will you do
there? (said he smiling.) I told him we would sell
our cargo, and purchase calicoes, raw and wrought
silks, tea, &c. and so return the same way back.
O, (said he) you had better put in at Macao, where
you may buy China wares as cheap as at Nanquin,
and fell your opium at a greater advance. But, (laid
1) we are gentlemen as well as merchants, and de-
sign to fee thf great city of Pekin, and the magnificent
court of the Monarch of China. Why, then, (faid
he) you should go to Ningpo, where there is a na-
vigable river that goes through the heart of that
2
vast empire, two hundred and seventy leagues from
the sea, which crosses all the rivers, passes consider-
able hills, by the help of the sluices and gates, and
goes even up to the city of Pekin. You may go to
Nanquin, if you please, and travel to Pekin, and
there is a Dutch or English ship just before bound
that way. At the name of a Dutch or English ship
I was struck with confusion; they being as great a
terror to me in this vessel, as an Algerine man of war
is to them in the Mediterranean. The old' man find-
ing me troubled, Sir, (said he) I hope the Dutch are
not now at war with your nation? No, (said I) but
God knows what liberty they may take when out of
the reach of the law. Why, (fays he) what occasion
is there for peaceable merchants to fear? for, be-
lieve me, they never meddle with any but Pirates.
At the mentioning of the word pirates, my coun-
tenance turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible
for me to conceal it from the old pilot; who taking
notice of it, Sir, (said he) take what course you please,
I'll do you all theservice I can. Signor, (said I) I am
a little concerned at your mentioning pirates; I hope
there are none such in these seas, because you see
in what a weak condition we are to defend ourselves.
"O, Sir, (said he) if that's all, don't be concern- \
ed, I don't remember one in these seas these fifteen
years, except about a month ago one was seen in the
bay of Siam, but she is gone to the southward; nei-
ther was she built for a privateer, but was run away
with by a reprobate captain, and some of his men,
the right captain having been murdered by the Ma-
layans."
What! (said I, as though ignorant of what had
happened), did they kill the captain ?" No, (said
he) it is generally thought the Maiayans murdered
him; but perhaps they might procure them to do
it, and therefore they justly deserve hanging. The
rogues were lately uncovered in the bay of Siam,
in the river of Cambodia, by some Dutchmen who
belonged to the ship, and had much ado to escape
the five boats that pursued them, but they have all
given such an exact description of the ship, that
wherever they find her, they will be sure to know
her, and they have solemnly swore to give no quarter
to the captain or the seamen, but hang them every
one up at the yard-arm, without any formal business
of bringing them to a court of judicature."' -
Being sensible, that, having the old man on board,
he was incapable of doing me any mischief, Well,
Signor, (said I) it is for this very reason I would
have you carry us up to Nanquin, where neither
English nor Dutch ships come: And I must tell you
their captains are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent
rascals, that neither know what 'belongs to justice,
nor how to behave themselves as the laws of God
or nature direct; fellows that would prove mur-
derers to punish robbers, and take upon them to ad-
judge innocent men to death, without any proof to
prove them guilty; but perhaps I may live to call
them to an account for it, in a place where they may
be taught how justice is to be executed. And so I
told him all the story of buying the ship, and how
we were saved by the means of two men: That the
murder of the captain by the Malayans,».as also the
running away with the ship, I believed to be true;
but that we, who bought it, were turned pirates, was a
mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and foolish be-
haviour, when they attacked us, and the blood of those
men we killed in our own just defence lay to their
door, who sent to attack us by surprise.
"Sir, (said the old man, amazed) you have taken
the right course to steer to the north, and, if I might
advise you, I would have you sell your ship in China,
and buy or build another in that country; and I'll
procure people to buy the one and sell the other."
Well, but Signor, (said I) if I sell the ship in this
manner, I may bring some innocent persons into the
fame danger as I have gone through, perhaps worse,
even death itself, whereby I should be as guilty of
their murder as villanous executioners. "That
need not trouble you (fays the old man); I'll find a
way to prevent that; for these commanders you talk
of I know them very well, will inform them rightly
of the matter as you have related, and I am per-
suaded they will not only believe me, but act more
cautiously for the future." And will you deliver one
message from me to them ?" Yes, (said he) if you
will give it under your hand, that I may prove it is not
my own production." Hereupon I wrote a large ac-
. count of their attacking me in their long-boat; the
pretended reason and unjust design of it; that they
had done what they might be ashamed of, and could
not answer for at any tribunal in England. But this
letter was written in vain: Providence ordered things
another way. 'We failed directly for Nanquin, and
in about thirteen days fail, came to an anchor at the
south-west point of the great gulf of that place,
where we learned that two Dutch ships were gone
the length before us, and that we should certainly fall
into their hands. We were all at a great loss in this
exigency, and would very gladly have been on shore
almost any where; but our old pilot told me, that
if I would sail to the southward about two-and-for-
ty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchange,
where no European ships ever came, and where we
might consider what was further to be done. Ac-
cordingly we weighed anchor the next day, calling
only twice on shore by the way to get fresh water.
The country people very courteously sold us roots,
tea, rice, fowls, and other provisions. After five days
fail we came to the port, and landed with unspeak-
able joy. We resolved to dispose of ourselves and
effects in any other way possible, than enter on board
that ill-fated vessel more; for no state can be more
miserable than a continued fear, which is a life of
death, a confounder of our understandings, that sets
the imagination at work to form a thousand frightful
things that may never happen. And we scarce slept
one night, without dreaming of halters, yard-arms,
or gibbets; of fighting, being taken, and being kill-
ed; nay, so violent were our apprehensions, that we
would bruise our hands and heads against the sides of
the cabin, as though actually engaged. The story of
the Dutch cruelty at Ampona often came into our
thoughts when awake; and, for my part, I thought
my condition very hard, that, after so many dissicul-
ties, and such signal deliverances, I should be hanged
in my old age, though innocent of any crime that
deserved such punishment; but then religion would
seem to represent to me, as though the voice of it had
said, Consider, O man, what sins you have been for-
merly guilty of, which now thou art called to an ac-
count for, to expiate with thy blood! And as to thy
innocence, what art thou more innocent than thy
blessed redeemer Jesus Christ, who suffered for thy
offences, and to whose providence you ought to sub-
mittpet what will happen. After this, natural cou-
rage would inspire me to resist to the last drop of
blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be taken
by booriso, rascally Dutchmen, who had arts to tor-
ment beyond death itself.
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore, our
old pilot procured us a lodging and a warehouse for
out goods; it was a little hut with a large warehouse
joining to it, all built with canes, and pallisadoed
round with large ones, to keep out pilfering thieves,
who are very numerous in that country. The ma-
gistrates allowed us a little guard during the night,
and we employed a centinel, with a kind of halbert,
for threepence a-day. The fair, or mart, we found
lad been over for sometime; however, there re-
mained in the river four junks and two Japan ships,
the merchants of the latter being on shore. In the
first place, our old pilot brought us acquainted with
the missionary Roman priests, who were converting
the people to Christianity: Two of them were re-
served, rigid, and austere, applying themselves to
the work they came about with great earnestness;
but the third, who was a Frenchman, called Father
Simon, was of a freer conversation, not seemingly
so serious and grave, yet no worse Christian than the
other two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the
other a Genoese. Father Simon, it seems, was ap-
pointed to go to Pekin, the royal ,feat of the Empe-
ror of the Chinese; and he only waited for another
priest, who was ordered from Macao to accompany
him. We never met together but he was prompt-
ing me to keep him company in his journey: Sir,
(said he) I will show you the glorious things of this
mighty empire, and a city, the city of Pekin, far
exceeding London or Paris, put them both together.
One day, in particular, being at dinner with him,
I showed some inclination to go, which made him
press the more upon me and my partner, to gain our
perfect consent. But, Father Simon, (said my part-
ner) what satisfaction can you have in our company,
whom you esieem as heretics, end consequently ohjeBs not *
worthy your regard? Oh! (said he) you may be as
good Catholics in time as those 1 hope to convert to
our religion. And so, (said I) we shall have you
preaching to us all the way, instead of pleasing us with
a description of the country. Sir, (said he) however
our religion may be vilified by some people, it is very
certain it neither divests us of good manners or Chri-
stian charity; and as we are gentlemen, as such we
may converse together, without making one another
uneasy.
But we shall leave him a while, to consider our
ship, and the merchandise'which we had to dispose
of. There was but very little trade in the place
where we were; and so I was once resolved to ven-
ture to sail to the river Kilam, and so to the city of
N 2
.
Nanquin, but Providence ordered it otherwise, by
our old pilot's bringing a Japan merchant to us to
fee what goods we had. He immediately bought
our opium, for which he gave us a very good price
in gold by weight, some wedges of which were about
ten or eleven ounces. It came into my head that
perhaps he might buy the ship too; and I ordered
his interpreter to propose it to him. He said no-
thing then, but shrunk up his shoulders; yet in a few
days afterhe came, accompanied by a missionary priest,
who was his interpreter, with this proposal, That as
he had bought a great quantity of our goods, he had not mo-
tiey enough to purchase ourship; but if I pleased, he would
hire her with all my men, to go to Japan, and from thence
with another leading to the Philippine islands, the freight
of both which he would very willingly pay to us before;
and at their return to Japan, would buy the ship. Up-
on this we alked the captain and his men, if they
were willing to go to Japan; to which they unani-
mously agreed. While this was in agitation, the
young man my nephew left to attend me, told me,
That as 1 did net care to accept this prospeB of advan-
tage, he would manage it f$r me as I pleased, and ren-
der me a faithful account of his success, which should be
wholly mine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part
with him; but considering it might be for the young
man's good, I discoursed my partner about it, who,
of his own generosity, gave him his share of the ves-
sel,so that I could do no otherwise than give him mine;
but however, we let him have but the property of
half os it, and reserved a power, that when we met in
England, if he had obtained success, he ihould ac-
count to us for one half of the profits of the ship's
freight, and the other should be his own. Thus hav-
ing taken a writing under his hand, away he sailed
to Japan, where the merchant dealt very honestly
by him, got him a licence to come on shore, sent
him loaded to the Philippines with a Japanese super-
cargo, from whence he came back again loaded with
European goods, cloves, and' other spiceries. By
this voyage he cleared a considerable sum of money,
which determined him not to sell his ship, but to
trade on his own account: So he returned to the
Manillas, where getting acquaintance, he made his
ship free, was hired by the governor privately to go
to Acapulco, in America, on the Mexican coast, with
a licence to travel to the great city of Mexico. This
trassic turned out greatly to account, and my friend
finding means to get to Jamaica, returned nine years
after exceeding rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to
consider of those men who had saved our lives when
in the river of Cambodia; and though, by the way,
they were a couple of rogues, who thought to turn
pirates themselves, yet we paid them what they had
before demanded, and gave each of them a small sum
of money, making the Englishman a gunner, and
the Dutchman a boatswain, with which they were
very well contented.
We were now above iooo leagues farther from
home than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another fair to
be kept in a month's time, we might not only pur-
chase all sorts of that country's manufactures, but ve-
ry possibly find some Chinese junks, or vessels from
Tonquin, to be sold, which would carry us and our
goods wheresoever we pleased. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue; and to divert ourselves, we
took several little journeys in the country. About
ten days after we parted with our ship, we travelled
to see the city of Nanquin. This city lies in latitude
30 deg. north of the line ; it is regularly built, and
the streets are exactly straight, and cross one another
in direct lines, which sets it out to the greatest ad-
vantage. At our return, we found the priest was
come from Macao that was to accompany Father
N3
Simon to Pekin. That father earnestly solicited rrte
to accompany him, and I referred him to my part-
ner. In short, we both agreed, and prepared ac-
cordingly; and we. were so lucky as to have liberty
to travel among the retinue of one of their Manda-
rines, who is a principal magistrate, and much re-
verenced by the people.
We were five-and-twenty days travelling through
this miserable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated; and .yet their pride is infi-
nitely greater than their poverty, insomuch that the
priests themselves derided them. As we passed by
the house of one of their country gentlemen, two
leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour, forsooth,
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles. Ne-
ver wab Don Quixote so exactly imitated, never such
a compound of pomp and poverty seen before!
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch,
with all its tawdry trappings, and hanging sleeves,
tassels, &c. though torn and rent in almost every
part: His vest underneath it was no less dirty, but
more greasy, resembling the most exquisite sloven,
or greasy butcher. His horse (worse than Rosi-
nante, or the famous steed of the doughty Hudibras)
was a poor starved decrepit thing, that would not
fell for thirty shillings in England: And yet this
piece of worfhipsui por.p was attended with ten ot
twelve slavts, who guarded their mailer to his coun-
try-seat. We stopped at a little village for refrcsli-
ment: And when we came by the country-feat os
this great man, we found him sitting under a tree
before his door, eating a mess of boiled rice, with a
great piece of garlic in the middle, and a bag silled
with green pepper by him, and aiiLther plant like
ginger, together with a piece of lean mutton in it;
this was his Worship's repast: But pray observe the
state of the fool! two women slaves brought him his
food; which being laid before him, two others ap- .
peared to perform their respective ossices; one fed
him with a spoon, while the other scraped osf what
fell upon his beard and taffety vest, and gave it to a
particular favourite to eat. And thus we left the
wretch pleased with the conceit of our admiring his
magnificence, which rather merited our scorn and de-
testation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two servants, and the old Portuguese
pilot, whose charges we bore, and who served us as an
interpreter by the way. We had scarce been a week
at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us, Ah! Signior
Jngli/e, (said he) me something tell you make your heart
glad, but make me sorry; for you bring me here twenty-
five days journey, and now you leave me go back alone;
and which way shall I make my port after, without dt
ship, without de horse, without pecune? so he called
money in his broken Latin. He then informed me,
that there was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish
merchants in the city, who were preparing to set out
'for Muscovy by land within fix weeks; and that he
was certain we would take this opportunity, and con-
sequently that he must go home by himself. Indeed
this news infinitelyfurprised and pleased me. Are you
certain of this? (iaid I.) Tes, Sir, (said he) me sure it's
true. And so he told me, that having met an old ac-
quaintance of his, an Armenian, in the street, who was
among them, and who had come from Astracan, with a
design to go to Tonquin, but for certain reasons having
altered his resolution, he was now resolved to go with
the caravan, and to return by the river Wilga to Asira-
can. We 1, Signior, (siid 1) don't be discontented
about your returning alone; and if by this means I
can find a passage to England, it will be your own
fault if you return to Macao at all. And so consulting
with my partner what was best to be done, he re-
ferred it to me as I pleased, having our affairs so well
fettled at Bengal, that if we could convert the good
voyage we had made in China silks, wrought raw,
he would be satisfied to go to England, and so re-
turn to Bengal in the company's ships. Thus resolv-
ed, we agreed, that if our pilot would go with us, we
would bear his charges either to Muscow or England;
and to give him in a present the sum of 170I. Ster-
ling. Hereupon we called him in, and told him the
cause of his complaint should be removed, if he
would accompany us with the caravan; and there-
fore we desired to know his mind. At this he shook
his head, Great long journey, (said he) me no pecune,
carry me to Muscow, or keep me there. But we soon
put him out of that concern, by making him sensible
os what we would give him here to lay out to the
best advantage; and as for his charges, we would
set him safe on shore, God willing, either in Musco-
vy or England, as he pleased, at our own charge, ex-
cept the carriage of his goods. At this proposal he
was like a man transported, telling us he would go
with us all the world over; and we made prepara-
tions for our journey ; but it was near four months
before all the merchants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the' pilot went
express to the port where we first put in, to dispose
of what goods had been left there, while I accom-
panied a Chinese merchant, who was going to NanT
quin, and there bought 29 pieces of damask, with a-
bout 300 more of other fine silks; and by the time
my partner returned to Pekin, I had them all car-?
ried thither: Our cargo in silks amounted to 4500I.
Sterling, which, together with tea, fine calicoes,
nutmegs and cloves, loaded 18 camels for our share,
hesides what we rode upon, with two or three spare
horses, and two more- loaded with provisions: The
company now was very great, making about 400
horse, and about 12c men, well armed and provided.
We were of several nations, among whom were five
Scots merchants inhabiting in Muscow, and well ex-
perienced in trade.
We set out from Pekin the beginning os February
our style; and in two days more, we passed through
the gate of the great China wall, which was erected
as a fortification against the Tartars, being 108 Eng-
lish miles long. We then entered a country not near
so populous, chiefly underlie poweV of plundering
Tartars, several companies of whom we perceived
riding on poor starved horses, contemptible as them-
selves, without order or discipline. One time our
leader for the day gave us leave to go a-hunting:
But what do you think we hunted? only a parcel of
sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the world for
wildness and swiftness: But while we were pursuing
this game, it was our chance to meet with about
forty Tartars, who no sooner perceived us, but one
of them blew a horn, at the sound of which there
soon appeared a troop of forty or fifty more, at about
a mile's distance. Hereupon one of the Scots mer-
chants (who knew their way) ordered us to advance
towards them, and attack them immediately. As
we advanced, they let fly a volley of arrows, which
happily fell a little short of us: This made us halt a
little, to return the compliment with bullets; and
then being led up by the bold Scot, we fired our
pistols in their faces, and drew out our swords; but
there was no occasion; for they flew like timorous
sheep, and only three of them remained, beckoning
to the rest to come back. But our brave commander
gallops up to them by himself, shot one dead, knocks
another off his horse, while the third ran away: And
thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the Empe-
ror of China's dominions; and at length coming to-
one of their towns about a day and a half's jour-
ney from the city of Naum, I wanted to buy a
camel. The person I spoke to would have brought
me one, but, like a fool, I must go along with him,
about two miles from the village. My old pilot and
I walked on foot, forsooth, for some variety, when
coming to the place where the camels were kept as
in a park guarded by Chinese soldiers, we there a-
greed and bought one, which the Chinese man that
came with me led along the road. But we had not
gone far, before we were attacked by five Tartars,
mounted on horseback, two os whom seized the
man, took the camel from him, and rode away,
.while the other three approached us, the first of
whom suddenly seized me as I was drawing my
sword, the second knocked me down; but my old
trusty Portuguese, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
which I knew nothing of, and coming up to the
fellow that struck me, he, with one hand, pulled
him off his horse, and then shot him dead upon
the spot; then taking his feymitar, he struck at the
man that stopt us, but missing him, cut osf one of
his horse's ears, the pain of v\ hich made him throw
his rider to the ground. The poor Chinese, who
had led the camel, seeing the Tartar down, runs to
him, and seizing upon his pole-axe, wrenched it from
his hands, and knocked his brains out. But there
was another Tartar to deal with, who seeming neither
inclined to fight, nor to sly, and my old man hav-
ing begun to charge his pistol, the very sight of it
struck such a terror into the wretch, that away he
scoured, leaving my old pilot, rather my champion
and defender, an absolute victory.
By this time, being awakened from my trance, I
began to open my eyes, wondering where I was, hav-
ing quite forgot all that passed; but my fenses re-
turning, and feeling a great pain in my head, and
seeing the blood was running over my clothes, 1 in-
stantly jumped upon my feet, and grasped my sword
in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; but
no enemies now remained, except the dead Tartar.,
with his horse standing by him. The old man see-
ing me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran to-
wards me, and embraced me wirh the greatest tender-
ness, at the fame time examining into my wound,
which was far from being mortal. When we returned
to the village, the man demanded payment for his
camel, which I refusing, we brought the cause be-
fore a Chinese judge, who acted with great impar-
tiality: Having heard both sides, he asked the Chi-
nese man that went with me, whoso servant he was?
Sir, (said he) I am nobody's, but went with the
stranger, at his request: Why then, (said the judge),
you were the stranger's servant for the time, and the
camel being delivered to his servant, it is the fame
as though delivered to himself, and accordingly he
must pay for it. Indeed the case was so fairly stated,
that I had nothing to object to it: So having paid
for that I was robbed of, I sent for another, but did
not go myself^to fetch it, as I had enough of that
sj;ort before.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire, so fortisied, as some will tell you, that millions
of Tartars cannot batter down their walls; by which
certainly one might think one of our cannons would
do more execution than all their legions.
When we were within a day's march of that city,
we had information that the governor had sent mes-
sengers to every part of the road, to inform the tra-
vellers and caravans to halt, till a guard was sent ta
protect them from the numerous bodies of Tartars
that lately appeared about the city. This news put
us into great consternation; but, obeying the orders,
we stopt, and two days after, there came two hun-
dred soldiers from a garrison os the Chinese, and
three hundred more from Naum: Thus guarded
both in the front and rear, with our men on the
slanks, we boldly advanced, thinking we were able
to combat with ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they
appeared.
N 6
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well situated town called Changu, after having pass-
ed a river, and entered upon a desert of about 15
or ;6 miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of dull
that was raised, that the enemy was approaching.
This much dispirited the Chinese. My old pilot took
notice of it, and called out, Signor Inglefe, those
fellows mult be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
and I am afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will
all run away. Why, Signor, (said I) what shall be
done in this cafe? Done! (fays he) why, let fifty of
our men advance, and slank them on each wing. I
know the fellows will fight well enough in company.
We accordingly took his advice, and marched fifty
to the right wing, and the fame number to the left,
and with the rest made a line of reserve, leaving the
last two hundred men to guard the camels, or to as-
sist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came for-
ward, viewing our posture, and traversing the ground
on the front of our line. Hereupon we ordered the
two wings to move on, and give them a salute with
their shot, which accordingly was done. This put
a stop to their proceedings; for immediately wheel-
ing off to their left, they all marched away, and we
saw no more os them. They had undoubtedly given
an account to their companions of what reception
they might expect, which made them so easily give
over their enterprise.
When we came to the city of Nauni, we returned
the governor hearty thanks, and dispersed a hundred
crowns among the soldiers that guarded us. We
rested there one day, and then proceeded on our
travels, pasting several great rivers and deserts; and
on the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of
'Muscovy, the first town* of which was called'Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coming in-
to a Christian country, made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it: He smiled at that, telling
me not to rejoice too soon; for, (said he) except the
Russian soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants
of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this coun-
try, for above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the
most ignorant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Arguna by moderate
journeys, and found convenient garrisons on the road,
silled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodgings of travellers;
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans,
worshipping the moon, sun, and stars. We parti-
cularly observed this idolatry near the river Arguna,
at a city inhabited by Tartars and Russians, called
Nerifinkey. Being curious to fee their way of living,
while the caravan continued to rest themselves in this
city, I went to one of their villages, where there was
to be one of their solemn sacrifices. There I beheld,
upon the stump of an old tree, an idol of wood, more
ugly than the representation of the devil himself: Its.
head resembled no living creature: Its ears were as
big and as high as a goat's horns, a crooked nose, sour
cornered -mouth, and horrible teeth: It was clothed
in sheeps skins, had a great Tartar bonnet, with two
horns growing through it, and was eight feet high,
without feet, legs, or proportion. Before this idol
there lay sixteen or seventeen people, who brought
their offerings, and were making their prayers, while
at a distance stood three men, and one bullock, as
victims to this ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatest
astonishment and reflection; which soon turning to
rage and fury, I rode up to the image, and cut in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns,
while one of miy men that was with me, pulled at it
by his sheep-skin garment. Immediately an hideous
howling and outcry ran through the village, and two
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
or three hundred people coming about our ears, we
were obliged to sly for it.
But I had not done with the monster ; for the ca-
ravan being to rest three nights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and that I was
resolved to take four or five men well armed with
me, in order to destroy the idol, aud show the people
how little reason they had to trust in a god who could
not save himself. At first he laughed at me, repre-
senting the danger of it, and when it was destroyed,
what time had .we to preach to them better things,
whose zeal and ignorance was in the highest degree,
and both unparallelled; that if I should be taken by
them, I should be served as a poor Russian, who con-
temned their worship; that is, to be stripped naked,
and tied to the top of the idol, there shot at with
their arrows till my body was full of them, and then
burnt a sacrifice to the monster: But, Sir, (faid he)
since your zeal carries you so far, rather than you
should be alone, I will accompany you, and bring a
stout fellow equal to yourself, if you will, to assist
you in this design: And accordingly he brought one
Captain Richardson, who hearing the story, readily-
consented; but my partner*declined it, being alto-
gether out of his way: And so we three, and my
man-servant, resolved to execute this exploit about
. midnight; but upon second thoughts we deferred it
to next night, by reason that the caravan being to
go from thence next morning, we mould be out of
the governor's power. The better to esfectuate my
design, I procured a Tartar's sheep-skin robe, a bon-
net, with a bow and arrows, and every one of us
got the like habits. The first night we spent in mix-
ing combustible matter with aquavitæ, gun-powder,
&c. having a good quantity of tar in a little pot; next
night we came up to the idol about eleven o'clock,
the moon being up; we found none guarding it,
but we perceived a light in the house, where we had;
seen the priest; before. One of our men was for fi ing
the hut, another for killing the people, and a third
for making them prisoners, while the idol was de-
stroying. We agreed to the latter; so knocking at
the door, we seized the firit that opened it, and stop-
ping his mouth, and tying his feet, we left him. We
served the other two in the like manner; and then
the Scots merchant set fire to the composition,
which frightened then; so much, that we brought
them all away prisoners to their wooden god. There
we fell to work with him, daubing him all over with
tar mixed with tallow and brimstone, stopped his eye s,
ears, and mouth full of gun-powder, with a great
piece of wild fire in his bonnet, and environed it with
dry forage. All this being done, we unloosed and
ungagged the prisoners, and set the idol on fire,
which the gun-powder blowing up, the shape of it
was deformed, rent, and split, which the forage ut-
terly consumed; for we staid to see its destruction,
lest the ignorant idolatrous people should have thrown
themselves into the slames. And thus we came a-
way undiscovered, the morning appearing as busy
among our fellow-travellers, as nobody could have
suspected any other but that we had been in our beds
all night..
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a
small distance from the city, when there came a
multitude of the people of the country to the gates
of the city, demanding satisfaction of the Russian
governor for insulting their priests, and burning
their great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the
fun, and no mortal would violate his image but
some Christian miscreants; and being already no less
than thirty thousand strong, they announced war a-
gainst him and all his Christians.
The governor assured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been a-
broad; that indeed there was 3 caravan, that went a-
«
way that morning, and that he would fend after
them to inquire into it; and whoever were the of-
fenders, should be delivered into their hands. This
fatisfied them for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if any of us had done it, we
should make all the haste away possible, while he
kept them in play as long as he could. -Upon this
we marched two days and two nights, stopping but
very little, till at last we arrived at a village call-
ed Plothus, and hasted to Jarawena, another of the
Czar's colonies. On the third day, having entered
the desert, and passed the lake called Shaks Oser,
we beheld a numerous body of horse on the other
side of it to the north, who supposed we had passed
on that side of the lake; but having either sound
their mistake, or being certainly informed of the
way we took, they came upon us towards the dusk
of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp be-
tween two little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and some felled trees,
with which we covered our rear; a precaution we
always took, and which we had just finished when
the enemy came up. They did not fall on U8 im-
mediately, but sent three messengers, demanding
the men who had insulted their priests, and burnt
their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might be
burnt with sire; that if this was cemplied with, they
would peaceably depart; but if not, they would de-
stroy one and all of us. Our men stared at one an-
other on receipt of this message, but Nobody was the
word, as indeed nobody knew it, but he who did
it. Upon which the leader of the caravan returned
for answer, that they were peaceable merchants,
who meddled with none of their priests and gods;
and therefore desired them not to disturb us, and
put us to the necessity of defending ourselves. But
so far was this from satisfying them, that the next
morning, coming to our right, they let fly a volley
of arrows among us, which happily did not hurt any,
because we sheltered ourselves behind our baggage.
We expected, however, to come to a closer engage-
ment; but were happily saved by a cunning fellow,
a Cossack, who obtaining leave of the leader to go
out, mounts his horse, rides directly from our rear,
and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, as
though he had been sent express, and tells them a
formal story, that the wretches who had burnt the
Cham Chi-Thaungu, were gone to Siheilka, with
a resolution to burn the god Shal Isar, belonging to
the Tongueses. Upon which, believing this cun-
ning Tartar, who w?s servant to our Muscovites, a-
way they drove to Siheilka, and in less'than three
minutes were out of our sight, nor did we ever hear
fef them more, -jf-
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rest-
ed five days, and then entered into a frightful de-
sert, which held us twenty-three days march, in-
fested with several small companies of robbers, or
Mogul Tartars, who never had the courage to at-
tack us. After we had passed over this desert, we
found several garrisons to defend the caravans from
the violence of the Tartars. In particular, the go-
vernor of Adinlkoy offered us a guard of fifty men
to the next station, if we apprehended any danger.
The people here retained the fame paganism and bar-,
barity, only they were not so dangerous, being con-
quered by the Muscovites. The clothing, both of
men and women, is of the skins of beasts, living un-
der the ground in vaults and caves, which have a
communication with one another. They have idols
almost in every family; besides, they adore the fun
and stars, water and snow; and the least uncom-
mon thing that happens in the elements, alarms them
as much as thunder and lightning does the unbe-
lieving Jews.
Nothing remarkable occurred in our march through
this country. When we had got through the de-
sert, after two days further travel, we came to Je-
nezo, a Muscovite city, on the great river so call-
ed, which, we were told, parted Europe from Asia.
The inhabitants here were very little better, though
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder
will cease, when I inform my reader of what was
observed to me, that the Czar rather converts the
Tartars with soldiers than clergymen, and is more
proud to make them faithful subjects than good
Christians.
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
a pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country,
for want os good management and people, and those
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where the
Muscovite criminals are banished to, if they are not
put to death. The next city we came to, was the
capital city of Siberia, called Toboiski, when, having
been almost seven months on our journey, and winter
drawing on apace, my partner and I consulted about
our particular asfairs, in what manner we should dis-
pose of ourselves. We had been told of fledges and
rein deer to carry us over the snow in the winter
season, the snow being frozen so hard, that the
fledges can run upon the surface without any danger
of going down. As I was bound to England, I now
behoved either to go with the caravan to Jeroilaw,
fiom thence(west to Narva, and the Gulf os Finland,
and lo by land or sea to Denmark; or else 1 must
leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, and
so to Archangel, where I was certain of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh. One
nij.'ht I happened to get into the company of an il-
lustrious but banished prince, whose company and
virtues were such as made me propose to him a me-
thod how he might obtain his liberty. My dear
friend, (said he) as I am here happily free from my
miserable greait.efs, with all its attendants of pride, am-
bit ion, avarices and luxury; ifI should escape from this
place, these pernicious feeds may again revive, to my los-
ing disquietude; therefore let me remain in a blessed con-
finement, fr I am but fe/h, a mere man, with passions
and affections as such: 0 be not my friend and tempter
too! Struck dumb with surprise, I stood silent awhile,
nor was he in less disorder; by which perceiving htf
wanted to give vent to his mind, I desired him to con-
sider of it, and so withdrew. But about two hours
after he came to my apartment: Dear friend, (said
he) though I cannot consent to accompany you, 1 shall have
this fatisfaSiion in parting, that you leave me an honest
man f ill; but as a testimony of my affection to you, be
pleased to accept this present of fables.'
In return for this compliment, I sent my servant
next morning to his Lordship, with a small present
of tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little
wedges of gold; but he only accepted the tea, one
piece of damnslij and a piece of gold, for the curiosity
of the Japan stamp that was upon it. Not long after,
he sent for me, and told me, that what he had re-
fused himself, he hoped upon his account I would
grant to another, whom he ihould name; in short, it
was his only son, who was about 200 miles distance
from him, on the other side of the Oby, whom he
said he would send for, if I gave my consent. This
I soon complied with; upon which he sent his ser-
vants next day for his son, who returned in twenty
days time, bringing seven horses loaded with valuable
furs. At night the young lord was conducted in-
cognito into our apartment, where his father present-
ed him to me. We then concerted the best wuys
for travelling, and after having bought a considerable
quantity of sables, black fox skins, sine ermines,
&c. (which I fold at Archangel at a good price), wo
.set out from this city the beginning of June, making
3 small caravan, being about thirty-two horses and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
camels, of which I represented the head. My young
lord had with him a very faithful Siberian servant,
well acquainted with the roads. We shunned the
principal towns and cities, as Tumen, Soli Kamoskoi,
and several others, by reason of their strictness in
examining travellers, lest any of the banished persons
of distinction should escape. Having passed the ri-
ver Kama, we came to a city on the European side,
called Soloy Kamoskoi, where we found the people
mostly Pagans as before. We then passed a desert
of about two hundred miles over, but in other
places it is near seven hundred. In passing this wild
place, we were beset by a troop of men on horse-
back, and about five-and-forty men armed with bows
and arrows. At first they looked earnestly on us,
and then placed themselves in our way. We were
above sixteen men, and drew up a little line before
our camels. My young lord sent out his Siberian
servant to know who they were; but when he ap-
proached them, he neither knew a word they faid,
nor would they admit him to come near them at his
peril, but prepared to shoot him. At his return he
told us he believed them to be Calmuc Tartars, and
that he thought there were more of them upon the
desert. This was but a small comfort to us; yet
seeing a little grove about a quarter of a mile's di-
stance, we moved to it, by the old Portuguese pilot's
advice, without meeting with any opposition. Here
we found a marshy piece of ground, and a spring of
water running into a little brook on one side, which
joined another like it a little farther off, and these
two formed the head of the river called Writska.
As soon as we arrived, we went to work, cutting
down great arms off the trees, and laying them hang-
ing (not quite off) from one tree to another. In this
situation we waited the motions of the enemy, with-
out perceiving any advancement they made towards
us. About two hours before night, being joined by
\
\
\
ROBINSON CRUSOE. '309
some others, in all about fourscore horse, among
whom we fancied were some women, they came up-
on us with great fury. We fired without ball, call-
ing to them in the Russian tongue to know their
business; but they, either not knowing, or seeming
not to understand us, came directly to the wood-side,
not considering that we were so fortified as that they
could not break in'. Our old pilot the Portuguese,
proved both our captain and engineer, and desired
us not to fire till they came within pistol-shot; and
when he gave the word of command, then to take
the surest aim : But he did not bid us give fire, till
they were within two pikes length of us, and then
we killed fourteen of them, wounded several, as also
their horses, having every one of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least. So much
were they surprised at our undauntedness, that they
retired about a hundred roods of us. In the mean
while, we loaded our pieces again, and sallying out,
secured four or five of their horses, whose riders we
found were killed, and perceived them to be Tar-
tars. About an hour after, they made another at-
tempt, to fee where they might break in; but find-
ing us ready to receive them, they retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in strengthen-
ing our situation, and barricading the entrances in-
to the woods; but when day-light came, we had a
very unwelcome discovery; for the enemy being en-
couraged by their assistance, had set up eleven or
twelve tents in form of a camp, about three quarters
of a mile from us. I must confess I was never more
concerned in my life, giving myself and all that I had
over for lost; and my partner declared, that as the
loss of his goods would be his ruin, before they should
be taken from him, he would fight to the last drop
of his blood. As we could not pretend to force our
way, we had recourse to a stratagem; we kindled a
large fire which burnt all night; and no sooner was
1
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
it dark, but we pursued our journey towards the
pole, or north star, and travelling all night, by six'
o'clock in the morning we came to a Russian village
called Kertza, and from thence came to a large town
named Ozonoys, where we heard that several troops
of Calmuc Tartars had been abroad upon the de-
sert, but that we were past all danger. In five days
after we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzedga;
from thence we came to Lawrenskoy, on the third of
July, where providing ourselves with two luggage
boats and a convenient bark, we embarked the se-
venth, and arrived at Archangel the eighteenth, af-
ter a year five months and three days journey, in-
cluding the eight months and odd days at Tobolski.
We came from Archangel the twentieth of August
in the same year, and arrived at Hamburgh the thir-
tieth os September. Here my partner and I made
a very good sale of our goods, both those of China
and Siberia; when, dividing our effects, my share
came to 3475I. 17s. 3d. after all the losses we had
sustained, and charges we had been at. Here the
young lord took his leave of me, in order to go to
the court of Vienna, not only to seek protection, but
to correspond with his father's friends. After we
had staid four months in Hamburgh, I went from
thence over land to the Hague, where, embarking in
the packet, I arrived in London the tenth of January
1705, after ten years and nine months absence from
England.
311
ROBINSON CRUSOE'S VISION of fi:e ANGE-
LIC WORLD.
Chap. I. Of Solitude.
HOWEVER solitude is looked upon as a restraint
to the pleasures of the world, in company and
conversation, yet it is a happy state of exemption
from a sea of trouble, an inundation of vanity and
vexation, of confusion and disappointment. While
we enjoy ourselves, neither the joy nor sorrow of
other men affect us: We are then at liberty, with
the voice of our foul, to speak to God. By this
we shun such frequent trivial discourse, as even be-
comes an obstruction to virtue; aud how often do
we find, that we had reason to wish we had not been
in company, or said nothing when we were there?
for either we offimd God by the impiety os our dis-
course, or lay ourselves open to the violence of de-
signing people by our unguarded expressions, and fre-
quently feel the coldness and treachery of prerended
friends, when once involved in trouble and affliction;
of such unfaithful intimates (I should fay enemies)
who rather by false inuendos would accumulate
miseries upon us, than honestly assist us when suffer-
ing under the hard hand of adversity. But in a
state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard,
except by the great Majesty of heaven, how happy
are we in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with
our Maker!. It is then we make him our friend,
which sets us above the envy and contempt of wick-
ed men. When a man converses with himself, he
is sure that he does not converse with an enemy.
Our retreat should be to good company, and good
books. I mean not by fol tude, that a man should
retire into a cell, a desert, or a monastery; which
would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
strains; for as men are formed for society, and have
an absolute necessity and dependence upon one ano-
ther, so there is a retirement of the soul with which
it converses in heaven, even in the midst of men;
and indeed no man is more fit to speak freely than
he who can, without any violence to himself, refrain
his .tongue, or keep silence altogether. As to religion,
it is by this the soul gets acquainted with the hidden
mysteries of the holy writings; here she finds those
floods of tears, in which good men wash themselves
day and night, and only makes a visit to God and his
holy angels. In this conversation the truest peace
and most solid joy are to be sound; it is a continual
feast of contentment on earth, and the means of at-
taining everlasting happiness in heaven.
Chap. II. Of Honesty.
Honesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and
pretended to by all persons. In this there are seve-
ral degrees; to pay every man his own is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all mankind is
the chancery law of honesty; and this chancery-court
is in every man's breast, where his conscience is a lord
chancellor. Hence it is that a miser, though he
pays every body their own, cannot be an honest man,
when he does not discharge the good offices that are
incumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous person:
for faith the prophet Isaiah, chap, xxxii. ver. 7, 8.
The instruments of a churl are evil; he devifeth wicked
devices to dstroy the poor with lying words, even when
the needy speaketh right; but the liberal soul devifeth
liberal things, and by liberal things shall hesland. It is
certainly honesty to do every thing the law requires;
but should we throw every poor debtor in prison till
he has paid the utmost farthing, hang every malefac-
tor without mercy, exact the penalty of every bond,
and the forfeiture of every indenture, this would be
downright cruelty, and not honesty; and it is con-
3'3
trary to that general rule, To do to another that which
you would have done unto you. Sometimes necessity
snakes an honest man a knave; and a rich man an
honest man, because he has no occasion to be a knave.
The trial of honesty is this : Did you ever want bread,
and had your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would
starve rather than eat it? Were you ever arrested
having in your custody another man's cash, and would
rather go to jail, than break it? If so, this indeed
may be reckoned honesty: Fop king Solomon tells
us, that a good name is better than life, and is a pre-
cious ointment, and which when a man has once loJl)
he has nothing left worth keeping.
Chap. III. Of suffering AffliBions,
Afflictions are common to all mankind; and
whether they proceed from losses, disappointments,
or the malice of men, they often bring their ad-
vantages along with them : For this shows man the
vanity and deceitfulness of this life, and is an occa-
sion of rectifying our measures, and bringing us to
a more modest opinion of ourselves: It tells us how
necessary the assistance of divine grace is unto us,
when life itself becomes' a burden, and death even
-desirable: But when the greatest oppression comes
upon us, we must hr;ve recourse to patience, begging
of God to give us that virtue; and the more com-
posed we are under any trouble, the more commend-
able is our wisdom^ and the larger will be our re-
compence.^ Let the provocation be what it will,
whether from a good-natured and conscientious, or
a wicked, perverse, and vexatious man, all this we
mould take as from the over-ruling hand of God,
as a punishment for our sins. Many times injured
innocence may be abused by false oaths, or the power
of wicked, jjealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rife the higher the more it
is depressed; while the justice of God is eminently
remarkable in punishing those, One way or other,
who desire to endeavour to procure the downfal of
an innocent man: Nor does God fail comforting an
afflicted person, who with tears and prayers solicits
the throne of Heaven for delivei;tice and protection.
David fays, that his foul was full of trouble, and his.
life drew mar unto the grave. But certainly David's
afflictions made .him eminently remarkable,1 as par-
ticularly when pursued by King Saul, and frunted as
a partridge over the mountains. But one thing
which stands by innocence, is the love of God; for
were we to suffer disgrace, nay, an ignominious death
itself, what consolation does our innocence procure
.at our latest conflict, our last moments!'
Chap. IV. Of the Immorality of Conversation^ and
the vulgar Errors of Behaviour.
As conversation is a great part of human happw
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet-
tempered man, who is always lit for it;-to fee an
air of humour and pleasantnets sit ever upon his
brow, and even something angelic in his very coun-
tenance: Whereas, if we oblerve a designing man
we shall find a mark of involuntary sadness break in
upon his joy, and a certain insurrection in the sou!,
the natural concomitant of profligate principles.
They err very much, who think religion, or a
strict morality, discomposes the mind, and renders
it unfit for conversation 5 for it rather inspires us to
innocent mirth, without such a counterfeit joy as
vitious men appear with; and indeed wit is as con-
sistent with religion, as religion is with good man-
ners; nor is there any thing in the limitation of vir-
tue and religion that should abate the pleasures of
this world, but on the contrary, rather serves to in-
crease them.
On the other hand, many men, by their own vice
and intemperance, disqualify themselves for conver-
sation. Conversation is immoral, where the discourse
is indecent, immodest, scandalous, slanderous, and
abusive. How great is their folly, and how much
do they expose themselves, when they affront their
best friend, even God himself, who laughs at the
fool when his fear cometh?
The great scandal atheistical and immoral discourse
gives to virtue ought, methinks, to be punished by
all good magistrates: Make a man once cease to be-
lieve a god, and he has nothing left to limit his foul.
How incongruous is it to government, that a man
shallbe punished for drunkenness, and yet have li-
berty to affront, and even deny the Majesty of hea-
ven? When if, even among men, one gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, or perhaps speaks an
affronting word, a quarrel will ensue, and a combat,
and perhaps murder be the consequence: At the
least, he will prosecute him at law with the utmost
virulence and oppression.
The next thing to be refrained, is obscene dis-
course, which is the language only of proficients in
debauchery, who never repent but in a gaol or hos-
pital; and whose carcases relish no better than their
discourse, till the body becomes too nasty for the
foul to stay any longer in it.
Nor is false talking to be less avoided; for lying
is the sheep's clothing hung upon the wolf's back:
It is the Pharisee's prayer, the whore's buss, the hy-
pocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak; it is Joab's embrace, and Judah's kiss; in a
word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even im-
possible too: Others lie for gain, to deceive, delude,
and betray: And a third lies for. sport, o, i'or fun.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
cious, who foment differences, and carry tales from
one house to another, in order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard to reverence or
truth.
Chap. V. Of tke present slate of Religion in the
world.
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion
than religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity: And
it is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of
people there are furnished with -the powers of reason
and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned to the grossest
ignorance and depravity. But it would be unchari-
table for us to imagine (as some Papists abounding
with too much ill-nature, the only scandal to religion,
do) that they will certainly be in the state of damna-
tion after this life; for how can w.e think it con-
sistent with the mercy and goodness of an infinite
Being, to damn those creatures, when he has not
furnished them with the lights of his gospel? or how
can such- proud, conceited, and cruel bigots, pre-
scribe rules to the juitice and mercy of God $
We are told by some people, that the great image
'which King Nebuchadnezzar set-up to be adored by
his people, held the representation of the sun in its
right hand, as the principal object of adoration.
But to wave this discourse of heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are there held among
Christians! And how do we doom one another to
the devil, while all profess to worship die same Deity,
and do expect the same salvation!
When I was at Portugal, there was held at that
time the court of justice of the Inquisition. All the
Criminals were carried in procession to the great
church, where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvas, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the catholic faith and lilessed Vir-
gin.
I am sorry to make any reflection upon Christians;
but indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the
most cruel and mercenary upon earth : And a very ju-
dicious person, who travelled through Italy from Tur-
key, tells us, "That there is only the face and out-
ward pomp of religion there; that the church pro-
tects murderers and assassins, and then delivers the
civil magistrates over to Satan for doing justice; in-
terdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches
for want of paying a few ecclesiastical dues, and so
puts a stop to religion for want of their money; that
the court of Inquisition burnt two men for speaking
dissionourably of the Blessed Virgin: And the mis-
sionaries of China tolerated the worshipping the de-
vil by their new converts : That Italy was the theatre,
where religion was the grand opera; and that the
Popisti clergy were no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in-PoIand, .they deny-Christ to be
the Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the nesh.
And as ta their Protestants; they are- the followers
of Lselius SocinuS; who denied our Saviour's divi-
nity; and have no concern about the divine inspira-
tion of the Holy Ghost. .
• In Muscovy their, churches are built of wood, and
indeed they have but wooden priests, though of the
Greek church: They pray as much to St. Nicholas,
as Papists do to the Virgin Mary, for protection in
all their dissiculties and afflictions.
As to Lutherans, they only differ from she Ro-
mans in believing confubstantiation, instead of tran-
fubstantiation; but, like them, they are much pleas-
ed with the external gullantry and pomp,, more than
the true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
every where crowded with them, and the churches
4
O 3 .
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
full of women ; but surely never was a nation so fu.I
of blind guides, so ignorant os religion, and even as
void of morals, as those people who consess their sins
to them.
Does it not seem strange, that while all men own
the Divine Being, their should be so many differ-
ent opinions as to the manner of paying him obedi-
ence in the Christian church? I know not what rea-
son to assign for this, except it be their different ca-
pacities and faculties.
And indeed, upon this account, we have perceiv-
ed in all Christian countries what mortal feuds have
been about religion: What wars and bloodshed have
molested Europe, till the general pacification of the
German troubles at the treaty of Westphalia; and
since those times, what persecution in the same coun-
try among the churches of the Lutherans: And should
I take a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions
are between Christians in. this kingdom, about epis-
copacy and presbytery, the church of England men
and the dissenters ; opposing one another like St. Paul
and St. Peter, even to the face; that is, they carry
on the dispute to the utmost extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such diffe-
rences in religious points, and why these breaches
should be more hot and irreconcilable? All the an-
swer I can give to this, is,'that we inquire more coiTi-
ccrning the truth of religion than any other nation
in the world; and the anxious concern we ha-ve a-
bout if, makes us jealous of every opinion, and tena-
cious of our own: And this is not because we are
more furious and rash than other people; but the
truth is, we are more concerned about them, and
being sensible that the scripture is the great rule of
faith, the standard for life and doctrine, we have re-
course to it ourselves, without submitting to any pre-
tended infallible judge upon earth.
There is another question, pertinent to the for-
mer, and that is, what remedy can we apply to this
malady? And to this I must negatively answer, Not
to be less religious, that we may disfer the less. This
is striking at the very roots of all religious diiferences $
for certainly, were they to be carried on with a peace-
able spirit, willing to be informed, our variety of o-
pinions would not have the name of differences; not
..-should we separate in communion of charity, though.
Ver did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less useful question to start, namely,
wher.e will our unhappy religious differences end? To
which, I hope, I may answer, in Heaven; there all
unchristian and unbrotherly differences will find a
period; there we shall embrace many a sinner, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with; and
perceive, many a heart we have broken here with
censures, reproaching, and revilings, made whole a-
. gain by the balm of the fame Redeemer's blood Here
we shall perceive there have been other flocks than
those of ouv fold ; that those we have excommunicat-
ed, have been taken, into that superior communion:
And, in a word, that those contradicting notions and
principles, which we thought inconsistent with true
religion, we shall then sind reconcilable to themselves,
to one another, and to the fountain of truth. If any
.man ask me, why our disferences cannot be ended,
upon earth? I answer, were we all thoroughly con-
vinced that then they would be reconciled, we would
put an end to them before; but this is impossible to
be done: For as mens certain convictions of truth
are not equal to one another, or to the,weight or
signisicancy of such veracity; so neither can a gene-
ral effect of this affair be expected on this side.of the
grave.
. Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to discourse a little of the wonderful excellency os'
. negative religion and negative virtue. The latter sets
out like the Pharisee, with, God, I thank thee; it
04
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope;
and, in a word, it is positive vice; for it is either
a mask to deceive others, or a mist to-deceive our-
selves. A man that is clothed with negatives thus
argues: I am not such a drunkard as my landlord,
such a thief as my tenant, such a swearer as his
neighbour; neither am I a cheat, an atheist, a ra-
kish fellow, or a highwayman: No; I live a sober,
regular, retired life : I am a good man, I go to church;
God, I thank thee. Now, though a man boasts of
his virtue in contradiction to the vices mentioned,
yet a person had better have them altogether than
the man himself; for he is so full of himself, so per-
suaded that he is good and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, except it be to
pull off his hat to God Almighty now and then, and
thank him that he has no occasion for him; and has
the vanity to think that his neighbours must imagine
well of him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is
yet intoxicated with the pride of his own worth; a
good neighbour and peace-maker in other families,
but a tyrant in his own; appears in church for a
show, but never falls upon his knees in his clo/et;
does all his alms before men, to be seen of them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
less of the first; appears religious, to be taken no-
tice of by men, but without intercourse or commu-
nication between God and his own souL Pray what
is the man? or what comfort is there of the life he
lives? He is insensible of faith, repentance, and a
Christian mortified life; in a word, he is perfectly
a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has he
of his mispent hours, and of the progress of time to
the great centre and gulf of life,, eternity? Does he
know to put a right value on time, or esteem the
life-blood os his soul as it really is, and act in all
the moments of it as one that must account for
them? If then you can form an equality between
'what he can do and what he shall receive, less can
it be founded upon his negative virtue, or what he
has forborne to do; and if neither his negative nor
positive piety can be equal to the reward, and to the
eternity that reward is to last for, what then is to
become of the Pharisee, when he is to be judged by
sincerity of his repentance, and rewarded, according
to the infinite grace of God, with a state of blessed-
ness to an endless eternity?
When the negative man converses with the invi-
sible world, he is, filled with-as much dread a-nd hor-
ror as Felix, when St. Paul reasoned to him of tem-
perance, righteousness, and of. judgment to come;
for Felix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man; and he was
made sensible by the Apostle, that as a life of virtue
and temperance was its own reward, by giving a
healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life, so
eternal happiness must proceed from another spring,
namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked
God, who having erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus
Christ would separate such as by faith and repent-
ance he had brought home and united to himself by
the grace of adoption, and on the foot of his having
laid down his life as a ransom for them, had ap-
pointed them to salvation, when all the philosophy,
temperance, and righteousness in the world besides
had been ineffectual. And this, I fay, it was that
made Felix, this negative man, tremble.
Chap. VI. Of listening to the voice of Providence.
The magnificent and wife King Solomon bids us
cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for under-
standing; by which is meant religious knowledge 5
Jfor it follows, Then shalt thou understand the fear ef
the Zord, arid find the knowledge-as God. By which
undoubtedly he meant, to inquire after everything
that he has permitted us to knew, and nod to search
into-those ways'that are unsearchable, and^are esfec-
tually locked up from our knowledge. Now, a; listen-
ing to the voice of Providence is my present subject, I
intend, in the first place, to write to those who own,
i. That there is a God, a first great moving cause
of all things, an eternal power, prior, and conse-
quently superior to all created power or being. %.
That this eternal power, which is God, is the so-
vereign creator and governor of heaven and earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what' persons
in the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the
governing powerj' I osfer that glorious' text,, Psal.
xxxiii. 6, where the whole Trinity is entitled to the
whole creating work; and therefore, in.the next
;place, I shall lay down these two propositions:: : .;
I. That, the eternal God guides tyy his providence the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
, I . That this providence manifests a particular care
.1. . I overy and concern in the governing and directing
. i i man, the most noble creature upon earths . .
It is plain, that natural relSgibn proves the first,
by intimating the necessity of a Providence guiding
and governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom,^ justice, prescience, and goodness of the
Almighty Creator For otherwise it would be ab-
surd to think, that God mould create a world, with-
out any care or providence over it, in guiding the
operations of nature, so as to preserve the order of
his creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care
and concern of hi& Providence, by the climate's
being made habitable, :the creatures .subjected and
made nourissiing, and all vegetativcJife medicinal;
and all this for the fake of man, who is made vice-
roy to the King of the earth. The short description
I shall give of Providence is this : That it is that ope-
ration of the power, of the wisdom, justice, and
goodness of God, by which he influences, governs,
and directs, not only the. means, but the events of
all things which concern us in this sublunary world;
the sovereignty of which we ought always to reve-
rence, obey its motions, observe its dictates, and lis-
ten to its voice. The prudent man forefeeth the
evil, and hideth himself; that is, as I take it, there
is a secret Providence intimates to us that some dan-
ger threatens, if we strive not to shun it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out
Hull against the royal martyr King Charles I. thp
fame day Sir John Hotham was put to death by the
parliament for that very action; the fame day that
the king himself signed the warrant for the execu-
tion of the Earl os Stasford, the same day os the
month was he barbarously murdered by the bloods
thirsty Oliverian crew; and the same day that King
James II. came to the crown against the bill of
exclusion, the same day he was voted abdicated by
the parliament, and the throne filled ,with King
William and Queen Mary.
The voice of ignal deliverance from sudden dan-
gers is not only a juit call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling into the like danger; but such
who are uiterJy careless of themselves after, show a
lethargy of the worst nature, which seems to me to
be a kind of practical atheism, or at least a living in
a contempt of Heaven, when he receives good at the
hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned from whence
it comes, or to thank the bountiful hand that gave
it; neither when he receives evil, does it alter his
manner of life, or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders. The general be-
ing prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
them to cast dice upon the drum-head for their lives;
the first having thrown two sixes, the second fell a
wringing his hands, having so poor a chance to
escape; however, having thrown, he was surprised
when he also threw other two sixes. The ossicer ap-
pointed to fee the execution ordered them to throw
again; they did so, and each of them threw two
fives: At which the soldiers that stood round, shouted
and said neither of them was to die. Upon this the
ossicer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
them to throw a third time, when they threw . two
fours; the general being made acquainted with it,
sent for the men, and pardoned them: I love, says
he, in such extraordinary cases,' to listen to the voice
of Providence-
We read in the holy writings, how God speafca , -
to men, by appearance of angelj, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham,
Lot, and Jacob; so angels have appeared to many
in other cafes, as to Manoah and his wife, Zacha-
riah, the Virgin Mary, and to the Apostles; others;
have been warned in a dream, as king Abiinelech,
the false prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble inquiry, what
we shall be after this life? for there is scarce a doubt,
that there is a place reserved for the reception of our
souls after death: For if we are to be, we must, have
a where, which the scriptures assert by the examples .
of Dives and Lazarus. The doctrine of spirits was
long believed before our Saviour's time; for when .
the disciples of the blessed Jesus perceived our Savi-
our waiking on the sea, they were much surprised,
as though they had seen a spirit. ' Nay, in those ages
of the world, it was believed that spirits intermeddled
in the affairs of mankind; and throughout the Old
Testament I do not find any thing that in the least
contradicts it. AU the pains and labour that some
learned men have taken, to confute the story of the
witch of Endor, and the appearance of an old man
-personating Samuel, cannot make such apparitions
inconsistent with nature or religion: And it is plain
that it was either a good or a bad spirit that prophe-
tically told the unfortunate king what should hap-
pen the next day; for, said the spirit* The Lord will
deliver thee into the hand of the Philiftines; and to-
morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me.
Abundance of strange notions possessed me when
I was in the desolate island, especially on a moon-
st;ine night, when every bush seemed a man, and
every tree a man on horseback. When I crept in-
to the dismal cave, where the old goat lay expiring,
whose articulate groans even resembled those of a
man, how was 1 surprised! my blood chilled in my
veins, a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead, my
hair stood upright, and'my joints, like Belshazzar's
knees, struck against one another: And indeed,
though I afterwards found what it was, the remains
of this surprise did not wear off for a great while;
and I had frequent returns of those v-apours on dif-
ferent occasions, and sometimes without any occa-
sion at all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just lain down in my bed, one of
my feet pained me; after that came a numbness,
succeeded with a tinkling in my blood; when on a
sudden I thought something alive lay upon me, from
my knee to above half my leg. Upon this I flung
myself out of the bed where I thought the creature
lay; but finding nothing, Lord deliver me from an
evilspirit! (said I) what can this be? When I light-
ed a candle, I could perceive no living creature in
the place with me but the poor parrot, who being
frightened, cried out, Hold your tongue! and, What's
the matter with you? which words I taught him, by
saying so to him, when he mad« such' screaming
noises as I did not like. Lord', (said I aloud) surely
the devil has been here. Hold your tongue (says Poll.)
I was then mad at the bird, and putting on my'
clothes, cried, I am terribly frightened: What's the-
matter witk you? (fays Poll.) You toad, (said I) I'll
knock your brains out. Hold your tongue, (cried he
again) and so fell a-chattering, and calling Robinson
Crusoe, as he did before. But after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to
see it was a distemper that affected my nerves, and
so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received we do
not know; nor are we sensible how they are con-
veyed from spirits unembodied to ours that are in
life, or on the contrary from us to them: The latter
certainly is done without the help of the organs, and
the former is conveyed by the understanding and the
retired faculties of the foul.
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse;
and the more particular discoveries of the converse
of spirits seem to me as follow, to wit, dreams,
voices, noises, impulses, hints, apprehensions, invo-
luntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Joseph was directed of
God in a dream to go into Egypt; and so were the
wife men warned in a dream to depart into their own
country another way, to avoid the fury of Herod.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman
and a clergyman upon the subject of dreams. The
first thought no regard should be given unto them;
that their communication from the invisible to the
visible world was a mere chimera, without any solid
foundation; for, l, (said he) If dreams were from
the agency of any prescient being, the motives would
be more direct, and the discoveries more plain, and
not by allegories and emblematic fancies, expressing
things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the no-
tice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid it,
3*7
it is-tiot likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely
fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy of such notices,
in cafes equally important, proves they did not pro-
ceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most dis-
tinct dream* had nothing in them-of any significancy,
it would be irrational and vain to think that they
came from heaven. And,.5. That as men were not
always thus warned or supplied with notice of good
or evil, so all men are not alike supplied with them;
and what reason could we give, why one man or one
woman should npt have the same hints as another.
; To all this, the clergyman gave answer; 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against them as .being dark' and doubtful, they are
expressed generally by hieroglyphical representations,
similies, allusions, and figurative emblematic ways,
by which means, for want of interpretation, the
tiiing was not understood, and consequently the evil
not shunned. 2. That we charge God foo'tshly, to
say, that he has given the notice of evil, without the
power to avoid it; for if any one had not power to
avoid the evil, it was no notice to him; and it was
want of giving due head to that notice, that first men
neglected themselves, arid then charged the Judge of
all the eaith with injustice. 3. That we ought not
to find fault with the inconstancy of these notices,
but rather with our weak understandings, by pretend-
ing dreams were not to be .regarded, and negligent
when the voice- reaiiy spoke to us for our good. It
is a mistake to sey dreams have no import at all:
We might with more reason have said, none that we
could perceive the reason os,% owing to our blindness
and supine negligence, too secure at one time, and too
much alarmed at another; so that the spirit, which
we might be said to be conversing with in a dream,
was constantly and equally kind and careful; but our
powers are not always in the fame state of action,
not equally attentive to, or retentive of the hints
that were given. And, 5. To answer the lad que-
stion, why people are not'equally supplied? This
seemed to be no question; for Providence itself might
have some share in the direction' of it, and then that
providence might be limited by a superior direction:
That as to the converse of spirits, he could not call
it a stated converse ; such a thing there was, but why
there was so much of it, and no more, was none of
his business, and that no such discovery had ever
yet been made to mankind- Nor were we to ima-
gine less of waking dreams, trances, visions, noises,
hints, impulses, and all the waking testimonies of
an invisible world, and of the communication that
there is between us and them, which commonly en-
tertain us with our eyes open.
A gentleman of my acquaintance being about fe-'
ven railes distant from London, a friend that cam;
to dine with him, solicited him to go to the city.
What, (said the gentleman) is there any occasion-Jor
me? No, Sir, (said the other) nothing at al!, except
the enjoyment of your good company; and so gave
over importuning him. Just then a strong impulse
of mind urged the gentleman, and pursued him like
a voice, with- Go to London, Go to London. Hark
ye, (says he to his friend) is all well at London? Am
I wanted there? Or did you ask me to go with you
on any particular account? Are all my family well?
Yes, indeed, Sir, (said he) I perceived them all very
hearty; and I did not ask you to go to London up-
on any particular account whatsoever, except it was
for the fake of your good company. Again he put
off his resolution: But still the impulse suggested to
him, Go to London, and at length he did so. When
he came there, he found a letter and messenger had
been there to seek him, and to tell him of a parti-
cular business, which was first and last above a thou-
sand pounds to him, and which might inevitably
been lost had he not gone to London that night.
Hie obeying of several hints or secret impulses
argues great wisdom. I know a man that was un-
der misfortunes,, being guilty of misdemeanors a-
gainst the government; when, absconding for fear
ef his Tuiti, all his friends advising him not to put
himself in the hands of the law, one morning as he
awaked, he felt a strong impulse darting into his
mind thus, Write a letter to them: And this was re-
peated several times to his mind, and at last he an-
swered to it, as if it had been a voice, Whcmsfjall 1
write to? Immediately it replied, Write to the judge;
and this impulse pursued him for several days, till at
length he took pen, and ink, and paper, and fat
down to write to him ; when immediately words
flowed, from his pen, like streams from a fair foun-
tain, that charmed even himself with hopes of suc-
cess. In short, the letter was so strenuous in argu-
ment, so pathetic in its eloquence, and so persuasive-
ly moving, that when the judge had read it, he sent
him an answer he might- be easy, he would endea-
vour to make that matter light to him; and indeed
never left exerting himself, till he -had stopt the
prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and fa-
mily.
I know a person who had so strong an impression
upon her mind that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not sleep; the
impulse she had upon her mind pressed her not to go
to bed, which, however, she got over, and went to
bed; but was so terrified with the thought, which
run in her mind, that the house would be burnt, that
she could not go to sleep; but communicating her
apprehensions to another in the family, they were
both in such a fright, that they applied themselves
to search from the top of the house to the bottom,
and to see every fire and candle safe out, so that, as
they all said, it was impossible that any thing could
happen then, and they sent to the neighbours on
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
both sides to do the like. Thus far they did well:
But had she obeyed the hint which pressed upon her
strangely, not to go to bed, she had done much bet-
ter; for the fire was actually kindled at that very
lime, though not broken out. About an hour after
the whole family was in bed, the house just over the
way, directly opposite, was all in slames,, and the
wind, which was very high, blowing the flame upon
the house this gentlewoman lived in, so silled it with
smoke and fire, in a few minutes, the street being
narrow, that they had not air to breathe, or time
to do any thing but jump out of their beds, and fave
their lives. Had fl;e obeyed the hint given, and not
gone to bed she might have saved several things ; but
, the few moments she had spared to her, were but just
sussicient to leap out of bed, put some clothes on, and
get down stairs, fer the house was on fire in half a
quarter of an hour.
I remember about 14 or 15 years ago (as to time
I cannot be very positive) there was a young clergy-
man in the city of Dublin in Ireland, who dreamed
a very uncommon dream, That a gentleman had
killed his wife, a relation of his, by stabbing her in se-
veral places ; the fright of this awaked him, but find-
ing it a dream, he composed himself again to sleep,
when he dreamed a second time the same dream. .
This made him a little uneasy; but thinking it pro-
ceeded from the impression made on his mind by
the former, he went to ileep again and dreamed the
fame dream a third time also. So troubled was he
at this, that he arose, and knocked at his mother's
chamber, told his concern, and his apprehensions
that all was not right at his relation's house. Dear
son, says the good old gentlewoman, do not mind
these foolish dreams : And I very much wonder, that
you, being a person in holy orders, should have re-
gard to such illusions. Upon this he went to bed
again, fell sleep, and dreamed a fourth time asJbefore,
331
And then indeed he put on his night-gown, and went
to Smithsield, the place where his relation dwelt.
Here it was, alas! he perceived his dream too sadly
fulfilled, by seeing his relation, the young lady, big
with child, who was a Protestant, stabbed in seven
places, by her barbarous husband Mr. Eustace, a vio-
lent Papist, only for some discourses of religion that
happened the day before. After the wretch had
stabbed her in three places, he went to make his e-
cape out at a window ; but she cried out, My dear!
don't leave me, come back, and I Jhall be well again.
At which he returned in a hellish rage,- and gave
her four wounds more, when even in this condition
rising from her bed, she wrapped herself in her night-
gown, and went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's cham-
ber-door, (the Bishop lodging at that time in the
house). My Lord, (said she) O my Lord, make haste
unto me; but as soon as his Lordship came, she ex-
pired in his arms, resigning her precious soul into
the hands of Almighty God. The cruel wretch her
husband was shot by the pursuers; too good a death
for one who deserved the gibbet; and the lady was
universally lamented by all tender and religious peo-
ple. And this tragical relation I have mentioned
upon the account of that impulse or dream that the
clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody action.
It might be expected I should enter upon the
subject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the
reality of them, and whether they can reyisit tfye
place of their former existence, and resume those
faculties of speech and shape as they had when living;
but, as these are very doubtful matters,,I.shall only
make a few observations upon them.'
I once heard of a man that would allow the reali-
ty of apparitions, but laid it all upon the devil, think-
ing that the souls of men departed, or good men,
did never appear. To this Very man something did
appear: He said, he saw the shape of an ancient
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
man pass by him in the dusk, who, holding up his
hand in a threatening posture, cried out, 0 wicked
man, repent, repent. Terrified with this apparition,
he consulted several friends, who advised him to take
the advice. But after all, it was not an, apparition, but
a grave and pious gentleman, who met him by mere
accident, and had been sensible of his wickedness;
and wh» never undeceived him, lest it should hinder
his reformation.
\£!oriSe people make a vefy ill use of the general no-
tion, that there are no apparitions nor spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they see them
upon every occasion; for those carry their notions
farther, even to annihilate the devil, and believe no-
thing about him, neither of one kind or other: The-
next step they come to is, to conclude There is n»
God, and so atheism takes its rife in the fame fink
with a carelessness about futurity. But there is no
occasion to enter upon an argument to prove the be-
ing of the Almighty, or to illustrate his power by
words, who has so many undeniable testimonies in the
breasts of every rational being to prove his existence;
and we have susficient proofs, enough to convince
us of the great superintendency of divine Providence
in the minutest asfairs of this world; the manifest
existence of the invisible world; the reality of spi-
rits, and intelligence between us and them. What
I have said, I hope, will not mislead any person, cr
be a. means whereby they may delude themselves;
for having spoken of these things with the utmost
seriousness of mind, arid with a sincere and ardent
desire for the general good and benefit of the world.
THE END.
Brifitedby Mwndeil&Son,?
Royal Bank Close, Edin. $
