 j^obinson
Crusoe
series
'A3
*
THE STORY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
» • »
 I was born in the city of York, in England, in the
year 1632. My father was a man of some wealth,
able to give me a good home, and send me to school.
It was his wish that 1 should be a lawyer; but my
head began to be filled very early with thoughts of
rambling, and I would be satisfied with nothing but
going to sea. My father gave me strong and earnest
counsel against it, but with little effect. One day,
being at Hull, I met a school-fellow, who was about
to sail for London in his father's ship, and he prompted
me to go with him, and in an evil hour, without ask-
ing God's blessing or my father's, I went on board.
On the way to London, a storm arose, the ship was
wrecked and we barely escaped with our lives. I went on foot to London, where
I met with th- master of a vessel which traded to the coast of Africa. He took a
fancy to me, and offered me a chance to go with him on his voyages, which I gladly
acceoted
My first voyage with him was very successful; but on the second, the ship was
attacked and captured by Moorish pirates, and we were taken and sold as slaves.
But I managed, after awhile, to escape in a fishing boat; and being picked up by
a vessel sailing for Brazil, I went to that country and settled upon a plantation.
I prospered fairly well, but being offered a tempting chance to go upon another
voyage to Africa, my love of roving again prevailed, and I set sail once more,
just eio-ht years from the time I had first left Hull.
Oneway when we had been out about two weeks, a great storm came up, and
the ship was tossed about for many days, until we did not know where we were.
Suddenly we struck a bank of sand, and the sea broke over the ship in such a way
that we could not hope to have her hold many moments without breaking into
pieces In this distress we launched a boat. After we had been driven four or
five miles a raging wave struck us so furiously that it overset the boat at once.
Though I swam well, the waves were so strong that I was dashed against a rock
with such force that it left me senseless. But I recovered a little before the waves
returned, and running forward, got to the mainland in safety.
Then I began to look about to see if any of my comrades had escaped, but I
could see no sign of any of them.
 Unt, 1**1
THE STORY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE
 <w
r.-_ -—-&
The night coming on, I climbed into a thick, bushy tree to sleep, not knowing
but that there might be ravenous beasts there. When I awoke, next morning,
the sea was calm, and I could see the ship about a mile from the shore; and when
the tide ebbed, I swam out to her. I found that all the provisions were dry, and
being very hungry, I filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat as I went about other
things; for I saw that I must lose no time in getting ashore all that I could from
the ship. I first threw overboard several spare yards and spars. Then I went
down the ship's side and tied them together, and laying a few short pieces of plank
upon them, I had a raft strong enough to bear a moderate weight. Next I lowered
upon it three seamen's chests, and filled them with provisions. After a long search
I found the carpenter's chest, which was a great prize to me. I lowered it upon
the raft, and then secureel a supply of guns and gunpowder. With this cargo I
started for the shore, and, with a great deal of trouble, succeeded in landing it safe.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place to stow my
goods. I knew not yet where I was, whether on the continent or an island. There
was a hill not over a mile away, very steep and high ; and I climbed to the top of
it, and discovered that I was on an island, barren, and, as I saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited except by wild animals. When I realized the lonely, des-
perate situation that I was in, my heart sank, and I almost wished that I had
perished with the others. But soon perceiving the ingratitude of this state of
mind, I fell upon my knees to thank God for saving my life,—mine alone among
so many,—and a feeling of confidence arose in my breast that He would still pro-
tect me in the midst of the perils by which I was surrounded.
Every day for twelve days, I made a trip to the vessel, bringing ashore all that
I thought would be useful to me. The night of the twelfth day there was a violent
wind, and when I awoke in the morning the ship was nowhere to be seen.
-—' L
 %
ROBINSON CRUSOE SAILING IN HIS BOAT.
 THE FOOT-PRINTS IN THE SAND.
 Then I gave my thoughts to providing myself with a safe habitation. I found a
little plain, on the side of a hill, the front of which toward the plain was very steep,
and had in it a hollow place like the door of a cave. Here I resolved to pitch my
tent, which I made of sails that I had brought from the ship. Around it I drew
a half circle, and drove two rows of piles into the ground, making a kind of
fortress. I left no entrance, but used a short ladder to go over the top, and when
I was in, lifted it over after me. Then I enlarged the hollow place I have spoken
of until I had made quite a cave that served as a cellar for my house, which I
called my castle.
I had found aboard a dog and two cats. I carried the cats ashore with me on
the raft, but as for the dog he swam ashore himself, and was' a trusty servant to
me for many years. Besides the company of these pets, I had that of a parrot
which I caught and taught to speak, and which often gave me much amusement.
I went out every day with my gun to hunt for food. I found that there were
goats running wild on the island, and often succeeded in shooting one. But I
saw that my ammunition would, in time, all be gone, and that to have a steady
supply of goat's flesh, I must breed them in flocks. So I set a trap to take some
alive, and succeeded in catching several. I enclosed a piece of ground for them
to run in ; and in course of time had a large flock which fur-
nished me with all the meat I needed.
I had scarcely ever handled a tool in my life before; but my
wants now forced me to apply myself to learn their
use; and, in time, by effort and contrivance, I made
many things which added to my comfort. First, I
made a chair and a table, with an immense
amount of labor, for each board that I used
had to be formed from the trunk
of a tree, by being hewed flat on
two sides until it was thin enough.
To provide myself with clothes,
[ saved the skins of all the crea-
tures I shot, and dried them, and
made garments for myself out of
diem. In addition, at the cost of
a great deal of time and trouble,
I made, also of skins, an um-
brella, which I needed much to
keep off both sun and rain.
Having use, one day, for a bag **«««*$*«..
 •r •+
 that had once held corn and had
some dust at the bottom, I shook
it out near my castle. It hap-
pened that there were a few
grains of corn in it,and about a
month afterwards I saw, in the
same spot, some green stalks
growing up, which, on examin-
ing, I found to be fresh shoots
of corn. Then the thought came
to me, that by saving the grain
for seed, I might, in time, be able
to grow crops, and supply myself
with bread. I tried it, and suc-
ceeded in the end; although it
was four years before I grew enough to be able to spare any to eat.
For a long time I brooded over the idea of making a canoe out of the trunk of
a tree, as the Indians do, and at last set to work at the task. I cut a large tree,
and spent over three months shaping it into the form of a boat. Then I found it
too large to move to the water. I afterwards made a smaller one, and succeeded
in launching it, and set out to make a tour around the island in it. But when I
had been out three days, such a storm arose that I was near being lost. At last
I was able to bring my boat to the shore, in a little cove; and there I left it, and
went across the island, on foot, to my castle, not caring to go to sea again in
such an unsafe vessel.
Thus years and years passed away. Although I had, to some extent, become
contented with my solitary lot, yet at times a terrible sense of loneliness and deso-
lation would come over me. Many
times I would go to the top of a hill
where I could look out to sea, in hopes
of catching sight of a ship. Then I
would fancy that, at a vast distance, I
spied a sail. I would please myself with
the hopes of it, and after looking at it
steadily, till I was almost blind, would
lose it quite, and sit down and weep like
a child, and thus increase my misery by
my folly.
But one day I saw a sight which
-aPjM
/^M^&i
  WATCHING THE SAVAGES.
 FRIDAY'S LIFE IS SAVED.
turned my thoughts in a new channel. It was the print of a naked foot upon
the sand near the shore. It filled me with fear, for it showed that the island must
sometimes be visited by savages.
One morning, going out quite early, I could see the light of a fire about two
miles away. I went to the top of the hill and looked in the direction of the fire.
I saw that five canoes were drawn up on the shore, while a swarm of naked
savages were dancing about the fire. Presently they dragged two poor wretches
from the boats. One of them was knocked down at once, and several of the
savages set to work to cut him up. They were evidently cannibals, and were
going to hold one of their horrible feasts on their captives. The other captive
was left standing for a moment, and seeing a chance to escape, started to run. I
was greatly alarmed when I saw that
he was coming directly toward me, but
when I saw that only two pursued him,
and that he gained upon them, I made
up my mind to help him. When they
were near enough, I took a short cut
down the hill, and placed myself be-
tween pursuers and pursued. Then I
advanced on the foremost, and knocked
him down with the stock of my gun.
The other took his bow and was going
to shoot me, when I fired at him and
killed him. Then I made signs to the
poor runaway to come to me, and he
did so in fear and trembling, kneeling
at my feet and setting my foot upon his
head, as a sign that he was my slave.
I took him home to my castle and gave him something to eat. He was a hand-
some, well-shaped fellow, with good features and a pleasant smile. His skin was
not black, but tawny, and he had very bright, sparkling eyes.
I had now a companion, and in a short time I began to teach him to speak
English. First I let him know that his name was to be Friday, for that was the
day I saved his life. Then I taught him everything that I thought would make
him useful, handy, and helpful. I clothed him in a suit made of goatskins, and
he seemed to be greatly pleased to be dressed like myself.
One day I took him with me when I went hunting, and was much amused at
the way my gun mystified him. I first shot a bird. Friday did not see it fall,
and was greatly frightened by the noise of the gun, but when I pointed to the
  bird, and made signs for him to pick it up, he was filled
with wonder and amazement. It was a long time before
he could understand the nature of fire-arms, or overcome
his fear of the gun, which he seemed to think was en-
dowed with life, and which he used to address in his own
language, begging it not to kill him.
After he had learned enough English to be able to talk
freely, he told me of a party of shipwrecked Spanish sail-
ors, who had been cast ashore on the mainland, and had
been befriended by the savages of his tribe. A great
desire to see them took possession of me ; and I set about
making, with Friday's assistance, a boat large enough to
carry us over.
Rut one morning, before we had got on very far with
the task, Friday came running to me in a state of great
fright, to tell me that three canoes, full of savages, had landed on the island.
Arming Friday with a hatchet and myself with a sword, and taking all the guns
vvc could carry, we went to a thicket of trees which stood near where the sava-
ges were. From there we could see them sitting about fires they had made, eating
the flesh of one victim, while another captive, a white man, lay bound near by.
Perceiving that there was no time to lose if we would save the captive, I took
a gun and Friday another, and we both fired into the crowd together. We killed
and wounded several, and the rest were thrown
into the greatest confusion. We continued
firing until we had emptied our guns. Then
we rushed forward, and Friday using his
hatchet and I my sword, we killed all the
remaining savages, except four who suc-
ceeded in reaching the canoes.
Bidding Friday to release the captive, I ran
to another of the canoes, intending to pursue
the savages to sea, but in the canoe I was
surprised to find another poor creature bound
hand and foot. I cut him free, and helped
him to rise, for he could hardly stand. Fri-
day coming up, 1 bid him speak to the man,
and tell him he was saved. When Friday
heard him answer, he first looked at him
with astonishment, then embraced and kissed
 sj/i/^
 FRIDAY BRINGS ALARMING NEWS.
 FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER.
him, and cried, laughed, jumped about, and sung, like one that was mad. It was
some time before I could make him tell me what was the matter, but when he
came a little to himself he said that it was his father.
We took the two with us to the castle; and after they had been refreshed by
food and rest, I entered into conversation with the white man and learned that he
was one of the Spaniards of whom Friday had told me. I proposed that he and
Friday's father should return to the mainland in our boat, as soon as it was com-
pleted, and bring the rest of his countrymen to the island to live with us. This
was readily agreed to, and we all set to work to finish the boat. The task con-
sumed a great deal of time, but finally
Vs.
/
/%&**
everything was ready and they set sail.
A short time after they had gone,
Friday brought tidings to me one
morning that a ship was in sight.
Welcome as the news was, I thought
I would not show myself until I could
learn what had brought the ship there,
and it was well that I did not. I
watched in concealment and saw a
boat leave the ship and make for the
shore.
Eleven men landed, and I saw that
while most of them dispersed about
the island, three kept by themselves
and appeared to be much dejected.
When the others were out of hearing,
I approached these three and ques-
tioned them, and found that they were
English, that one was the captain of
the ship, and the others were the mate and a passenger, that there had been a
mutiny on board, and that the men, as a favor, instead of killing them, were
going to leave them on the island.
I offered to aid them to recover the ship, and going back to the castle, I brought
guns and gave them to them. When the men returned to the boat we shot two,
who the captain said were the leaders, and the rest, taken by surprise, yielded to
us. The captain made them swear that they would obey him faithfully, and then
returned with them to the ship. Those on board were equally surprised at the
turn affairs had taken, and when one of the worst was killed, were glad to return
to their duty. Then the captain came back to the Island, and told me that the
  ship and all that he had was at my service,
in return for what I had done for him. I
told him that I asked nothing more than
that he should carry Friday and myself to
England, and this he gladly agreed to do.
He provided me with clothing from his own
wardrobe, and I took aboard with me, in
addition to some gold that I had saved from
the wreck, only my goat-skin cap and coal
and-- my* umbrella, which I wished to keep
as relics. Everything else on the island I
left for the Spaniards when they should re-
turn from the mainland, and I wrote out for
their benefit a full account of my way of
living, and of all niv plans and contrivances. I also induced the captain to leave
a supply of tools that I knew would be useful to them, and an assortment of
seeds of various kinds. Then we set sail, and I left the island, twenty-eight
years, two months, and nineteen days after I had landed upon it.
Three days after setting sail, we saw a great fleet of small boats, full of savages
come paddling toward us as if to attack us. I told Friday to go on deck and
speak to them in his own language; but he had no sooner spoken than they let
fly a cloud of arrows at him, three of which hit him, and the poor fellow fell dead.
In a rage, I ordered the ship's guns to be fired
into the fleet. Half of the canoes were de-
stroyed, while the rest speeded away so fast that
in a short time none of them could be seen.
Poor honest Friday we buried in the sea, with
all the honor possible. So ended the life of the
mo-t faithful, grateful, and affectionate servant
that ever man had.
And now there is little more to tell. I arrived
safe in En Hand, Had to be back in my old home
once more, and desiring nothing but to spend
the rest of my days in peace and quietness.
  *
m
