
:
Hubbard
bnag. Voy.
1
Mt
0
THE *S
L I F E
And most surprifing
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of YOR K, Mariner;
WHO
Lived Eight and Twenty Years in an uninhabited
Island on the Coast of America, lying near the
Mouth of the great River of Oroonoqui: Having
. been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the
Men were drowned but himself: As also a
Relation how he was wondersully delivered by
Pyrates.
The.whole Three Volumes faithfully abridged.
The Seventh Edition.
LONDON:
Printed for S. Crowdir, in Pater - noster - Roiv;
J. Siweu, in Cornbill; W. Johnston. in
Ludgate - Street; and B. Law. in Avemarji - Lane.
M DCC LXXVil.
\
PREFACE.
JT is very well known what universal reception
the life of this man has wet with in the world,
and therefore needs'little or no apology for this edi-
tion, which comprizes the three volumes into one
faithful abridgment. In the pi i ufel of which you
will find so many curious moral observations, so
many divine restePhns to'comfort the affiitled mind,.
a r.d such .an heavenly prospect of the wonders xlPro-
vidensecfGod, that scarce any who read it butwhat
may make some application of it to themselves, and
pleasingly be led to knowledge if the divine blessings.
But here lam sensible, that as there are feme who
complain again/I the design, in general, as an incon-
sistent romance"; so there are others who, I doubt
not, will not sail depreciating the performance of
this in particular"; they may represent, that the
abridging a werk is scandalous and ridiculous; and
that thereby is taken away from it the only orna-
ments that recommend it to wife men. If this I e
true, and they could persuade the worlds, I l!nc%v
fiot what must become of those many curious abridge
meats that are extant among us, far mere pleasant
than the tiresome eloquence of larger volumes ; nor
how well the common fort of 'people wiU be pleased
in being with-held, by an excessive price, from a hi-
story so instructive and entertaining: And do assure
. my readers, whatever they may alledge against this'
abridgment, there are not only many errors ccr-
retlcd, but several palpable and gross contradiclicns
retlisted and amended: In a word, li tre it ?'t ci.e
material circumstance omitted; neiil er is thne any
deprived of its meft prepir c'feri as ions.
The first volume treats »p his fcipwred. 'is
manner of his deliverance upon the L?tibiae
Island, and tells of all that anxiety of mind he
endured., till the uncommon accident of his being
. released, after eight and twenty years solitude.
'In the second, he appears in his prosperous con-
dition, till the death of his dear wife; when, re-
suming his former wandering inclinations, it ne-
cessarily leads us to his future adventures, and re-'
markable travels by land from the Eastern coun-
tries, which are as amusing and instructive as
his voyage by sea.
In the last place is shewn to us a prosper of the
angelic world, the blessings of peace, retirement
and contentment, which is the end of life, the glory
of happiness, and an introduction to the divine
and blessed mansions abo ve.
When this book first appeared in the world,how
delightful, how ravi/hing did it seem to every
reader? Here the passions of the mind were so beau-
tifully expressed, both in the nature of his adversity
and prosperity, that melted every heart with a
tender sympathy and compassion. Robinson Crusoe
was in every body's mouth as much as in the mouth
of Pretty Poll! But since, to this abridgment there
are added two parts more, with the natural con-
sequence of life. Surely this, methinks, cannot but
give an entire satisfaction, as much as any thing of
this kind can pcj/ibly do; and therefore, I cannot
otherwise think but it iviiibe well worth my reader's
perusal; and, Hope, merit his approbation too.
Needless therefore it is to enlarge any farther on
this performance^ but leave it to the ingenuity and
candour ofunprejudiced persons: And whatever may
be the fate of it, I do assure the public, that no pains
or labour have been wanting to render this history
delightful, instructive, and entertaining. A N
AN
ABRIDGEMENT
OF THE
Life and Adventures
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
. <X (.. c'
^•^•etf^N the year 1632,1 was born at rir*,.
A ^>»»o«»o^5.^ of a reputable family. My father
# I I .. % was a na*'ve of Bremen, who, mer-
J 1^. chandizing at for some time,
* gained a very plentisul fortune, and
jttL' i» **«"Jl£ married my mother in 2^n?s who. re-.
ceived her sirst breath in that country. Andaslier
.maiden name was Robinson, I was called Rolinsjn.
Kreutsnqer; which not being easily pronounced in
the Ltiglijh tongue, we arc commonly known by the
name of Crupc.
i was the youngest of three brothers; the eldest.
was a Lieutenant Colonel in Lmckbarfs regiment, but
stain b/ the Spaniards.: What became of the other
I.costld nets learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in rt.}'. ecuca-.
tion, my father designing me. for the law; yet no-
c 6 3.
thing would serve me, but I must go to sea, both
against the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
arkl the entreaties of friends. One morning my
father expostulated very warmly with me: Says he,
| what reason have you to leave your native country,
I where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
j tent and'happiness, than to enter into a wandering con-
| dition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, neither to desire adversity,
nor riches; that a middle state of life was the most
happy ; and that the high towering thoughts of rais-
ing our condition by wandering abroad, were sur-
rounded with misery and danger, and often ended
with consusion and disappointment: I entreat you,
nay I command you, fays he, to desist from these in-
tentions: Consider your eldest brother, who laid
down his life for his honour, or rather lost it for his
disobedience to my will. Ifyouwll! go, added he,
my prayers shall however be offered for your preserva-
tion ; but a time may come, when, desolate, op-
prest, or forsaken, you may wish you had taken your
poor despis:d father s counsel He pronounced these
word:. with such a moving and paternal eloquence,
while floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks,
that seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this wore off soon, and a little aster I informed
my mother, that I could not settle to any business,
my resolutions were so strong to fee the world; and
begged she would gain my father's consent, only to
go one voyage, which if it did not prove prosperous
I would never attempt a second : But my defire
was as vain as my folly in asking my mother passi-
onately exprest her dislike of this proposal, telling me,
That asjhefnw I was bent upon my own dejlrufiion,
contrary to their will and my duty, /he would fay no
more, but leave me to myself to do whatsoever I pleased.
I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when
one time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of
mine, going along with his father, who was .master
of a ship, to London: And acquainting him with my
wandering desires, he assured me of my free passage,
and a plentisul share of what was necessary. Thus,
without imploring a blessing, or taking a farewell of
my parents, I took shipping on the first of September
1651. When. our ship having no sooner left the
Humber a-stern, but there arose such a violent storm,
and being extremely sea-sick, I thought the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my dis-
obedience to my dear parents. It was then only
I called to mind the good advice of my father;
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of life;
and if it pleased God to set me on dry land once
more, I would return to my parents, implore their
forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wandering
inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm conti-
nued; but these good resolutions decreased with the
.danger. More especially, when my companion came
to me, clapping me on the shoulder: What, Bob!
said he, sure you was not frlghtned last night with
scarce a cap-full of wind? And do you, cry'd I,
call such a violent Jlorm a cap-full of wind? A
Jlorm you fool you, said he, this is nothing ; a good
jhip and sea-room always baffle such a foolijh squall
of wind as that: But you're a frejh-water sailor:
come, boy, turn out, see what fine weather we have
now, and a good bowl of punch will drown all your
pajl sorrows. In short, the punch was made, I was
drunk, and in one night's time drowned both my
repentance and my good resolutions, entirely for-
getting the vows and promies I made in nr, distress:
And whenever any reflections would return cn me,
what by company and drinking, I soon mastered
those fits, as luendingly tailtd then;. But this only
miide
[ 8 ]
made way for another trial, whereby I could
not but sec how much I was beholden to kind Pro-
vidence.
Upon the sixth day, we came to an anchor in
Uarwiclf road, where we lay wind-bound with some
Newcastle ships; and there being good anchorage,
and out cables sound, the seamen forgot their late
toil and danger, and spent their time as merry as
if they had been on shore. But on the eighth day
there arose such a brisk gale of wind, which pre-
verted our tiding it up the river, and still increas-
ing, our ship rid fore-castle .in, having shipped se-
vtra! large seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, when I heard the master express this me-
lanrholiy ejaculation, Lord have mercy' upon us, we
jball he all lo/t arid undone! For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin, till the universal and most
dreadsul apprehensions aii'.ong us of our speedy fate,
made me get up upon deck ; and there 1 was dreadsully
asfrighted indeed: The sea went mountains high :I
could fee nothing but distress around us: Two ships*
had cut their masts on board, and another was foun-
dered: Two more, that had' lost their anchors, were
fore id out to the mercy of the ocean; and to save
our lives, we were forct.d to cut our fore-mast and
main-mast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my
dreadsul conditio.i? 1 was.but a fresh water sailor,
and therefore it seemed mo-f terrible. Our inip was
very good, but too much loaden, which made the.
sa";jrs often cry out, iSW would scunner; words I
.then Wi.s igneantof! All this while the stojm con-
tinuing, the: nu.stsr and the mere sober part of his
men 'vciit to prayers, expectini death eve/y mo-
ment In thi. middle rf the wv'.x one cried out, We
badJf rw!* a Ui ~'; another, That then was f'ur foot
U'iUcr in ihe.f;old.. i was just ready cy. expire with
fc«r,
[ 9 3
sear, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me also in that extremi-
ty to share with them in their labour. While thus
employed, the master espying some light colliers,
fired a gun as a signal of distress; which I not un-
derstanding what it meant, and thinking that either
the ship broke, or some dreadsul thing happened,
fell into a swoon; but in that common condition of
woe, nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me
aside. with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was
a great while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when upon the signal given,
they ventured out their boats to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had their at-
tempts been, had they not come to our ship's side,
when our men cast them a rope over a-stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold
of, and we hawling them to us, got into their boat.
So leaving our ship, we perceived it sink in less than
a quarter of an hour, by which I knew what was
foundering at sea. And now the men incessantly
laboured to recover their own ship, but the sea ran
so high, and the wind blowing hard, they thought
it convenient to hawl within shore ; which with great
difficulty and danger at last we happily affected,
landing at a place called Qromer, not far from Win-
terton light-house: From whence we all walked to
Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people surnished us with necessaries for our subsist-
ance either to Hull or London.
'Tis strange, that after all this, like the Prodigal
Son, I did not return to my father; who hearing of the
ship's calamity, for a long time thought me entombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have jhared in
bis fatted calf, as the scripture expresieth it: But
my ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of the powersul
conviction of reason and conscience.
When
[ io 1
When I had been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on.boarcl along with his father. His behaviour
and speech was altered, and in a melancholy manner
asked me how I did, telling his father who I was,
and how 1 had made this voyf.ge for a trial only to
proceed farther abroad: Upon which the old gentle-
man turning to me gravely said, Young man, you
ought never to go to sea any mere, but to take this for a
certain sign that you will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the same
resolution \y 'Tis a different cafe, said he, 'tit my
cailing, ana consequently my duty; but as you have
made this voyage for a trial, you fee what ill success
heaven has set before your eyes; and perhaps our mi-
series have been on your account, like Jonah in the foif
^"Tarshish: but pray what are you and on what ac-.
count did you go to sea? Upon which I very freely
declared my whole story; at the end of which he
made this exclamation, Ye sacred powers! what
had I committed, that such a wretch should enter in-
to my ship to heap upon me such a deluge of mi-
series! But soon recollecting his passions, Young man,
said he, depend upon it, if you do not go back, where-
ever you go, you will meet with disajlers and disappoint-
ments, till your fathers words are fulfilled upon you.
And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home, but shame op-
posed that good motion, as thinking I s!n.'.i!d be
laughed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So
strange is the nature of youth, who are'; not a/L'.rrcd
to fin but vet asiiamed to repent; and fai from being
astiamcd of those actions for which they.may be ac-
counted fools, think it folly in returning to their du-
Sr, which is the principal mark cf wisdom. In
lort I travelled up to London, resolved upon a voy-
age; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaint-
ance with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go
to
to the coast of Guinea. Having some money, and
appearing like a gentleman, I went on board, not
as a common sailor or fore-mast-man; nay, the com-
mander agreed I should go .that' voyage with him
without any expence; that I should be his mess-mate
and companion; and I was very welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best merchandize
I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my Captain for his offer; when acquainting my
friends in Fork/hire, forty pounds were sent me, the
greatest part of which I believe my dear father and
mother contributed to; and with which I bought
toys and trifles as the captain directed me. My
captain also learned me navigation, how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation,
and kd me into the knowledge of several usesul
tranches of the mathematics. And indeed this voy-
age made /me both a sailor and merchant: For I
brought home 5 pounds g ounces of gold dust for
my .adventure, which produced at my return to
London, almost three hundred pounds.. But in this
voyage I was extremely sick being thrown into
a violent calenture, through excessive heat, trading
Upon the coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees
nortb, even to the line itself.
But alas ! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief
to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the ship.
But this proved unsuccesssul; for though I did not
carry quire 100/. of my late acquired wealth, so that
I had 200/. left, which I deposited with the captain's
widow, wild was an holiest gentlewoman, yet my
misfortunes in this voyage were very great upon me;
for our stup sailing towards the Canary islands, we
were chr.sed by a Sake rover; and in spite of all
the sail we could make, by crowding as much can-
[ 21 ] .
vass as our yards would spread, or masts carry, the
pyrate gained upon us, and so we prepared ourselves
to sight. They had 18 guns, and we had but 12.
About three in the afternoon there was a desperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wound-
ed on both sides; but finding ourselves overpowered
with numbers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too
impotent to have the least hopes of success, we were
forced to surrender, and accordingly were all carried
into' the port of Salee. Our men were sent to the
Emperor's court to be sold there; but the pyrate
captain taking notice of me, kept me to be his own
slave.
In this condition I thought myself the most mise-
rable creature on earth, and the prophesy of my fa-
ther came afresh into my thoughts. As it happened,
my condition was better than I thought it to be, as
will soon appear. Some hopes indeed I had, that
my new patron would go to sea again,where he might
be taken by a Spamjh or Portugal man of war,
and then I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken, for he never took me with him, but left
me to look after his little garden, and do the drudgery
of his house; and when he returned from sea, would
make me lie in the cabin, and look after the ship.
I had no one that I could communicate my thoughts
to, which were continually meditating my escape;
no EngUjhman, Irijhman, or Scotchman here, but my-
self; and for two years I could fee nothing practi-
cable, but only please myself with the imagination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out his
ship as usual: And then he used constantly, once or
twice a week, if the weather was fair, to go out a
fishing,; taking me and a young Morejco boy to row
the boat; and so much pleased was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the fish, that he would
often
often send me with a Moor; who was one of his
kinsmen, and the Moresco youth, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
One morning, as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the shore;
and rowing we know not which way, we laboured
all the night, and in the morning found ourselves in
the ocean, two leagues from land; however, we at-
tained there at length, and we made the greater
haste, because our stomachs were exceeding sharp
and hungry. But the better to prevent such disasters,
my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with
a place behind it to steer and hawl home the main-
sheet, with other conveniencies, to keep him from
the weather, as also lockers to put in all mamv.v of
provisions; with a handsome shoulder of mutton
sail, gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us a fishing; and one
time inviting two or three persons of distinction to
go with him, made provision extraordinary, provi-
ding also three suzees, with powder and snot, that
they might have some sport at fowling along the sea
coast. The next morning, the boat being clean,
her antients and pendents out, and every thing
ready, their minds altering, my patron ordered us
to go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
siip with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed: In order to this, I persuaded the Moor to get
some provisions on board, as not daring to meddle
with our patron's; who, taking my advice, we
stored ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of
water; besides, I privately conveyed into the boat
a bottle of brandy, some twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a saw y in particular some bees-
wax, which was a great comfort to me, and served
to make candles. I then persuaded Muley (for so
B was
T n ]
"was the Moor called) to procure some powder and
shot, pretending to kill sea curlieus, to which he
innocently and readily agreed. And in short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out,
resolving for my own part to make my escape, though
it might cost me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to fishing;
but though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put farther out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league farther; when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muhy by surprise, and threw him over-board.
He was an excellent swimmer, soon arose, and made
towards the boat; upon which I took out a suzee,
and presented it at him: Muley, said I, / never yet
designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
to jhore and save your life; but if you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment
you proceed I will jhoot you through the head. The
harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got safe to land.
Then turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he
trembled at the action; but I put him out of all fear,
telling him, that if he would be true and faithsul
to me, I would do well by him: And therefore, said
I, you must Jlroke your face to be faithful, and, as the
Turks have learnt you, swear by Mahomet, and the
beard of yourfather, or else I will threw you into the sea
also. So innocent did the child then look, and with
such an obliging smile, consented, that I readily be-
lieved him, and, from that day forward, began to
love him entirely.
Thus we pursued our voyage, and that they should
think me gone to the Straits mouth, I kept to the
southward to the triily Barbarian coast; but in the
dusk of the evening, I changed my course, and
steered directly S. by E. that I might keep near
the
C! is V
the shore; and having a fresh gale of wind, with z
pleasant smooth sea, by three o'clock the next day
I was j 50 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. Yet still having the dreadsul apprehen-
sions of being retaken, I continued sailing for sive
days successively, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude, that if.any
vessel was in chafe of me they would proceed no
farther: And after so much fatigue and thought, I .
anchored in the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what, or where; neither did I then see any people.
What I principally wanted was fresh water; and I
was resolved, about diiskish, to swim ashore. But
no sooner did the gloomy clouds of night begin to
succeed the declining day, when then it was we heard
such barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, that one might have thought the very stran-
gest monsters of nature, or infernal spirits, had their
residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night. Sup-
pojing I dont, Xury, said I, and in the morning we
jhouldsee men, who are worse than those we sear; what
then? O den we may give dim de jhoot gun, replied
Xury, laughing, and de gun make dem ail run away.
The wit, and broken Englijh, which the boy had
learnt from the captives of our nation, pleased me
entirely, and to add to his chearsulness, I gave him a
dram of the bottle: We could get but little sleep all
the night for the terrible howlings they made; and
indeed we were both affrighted very much, when,
by the rowling of the water, and other tokens, we
justly concluded one of those monsters made towards
our boat; I could not fee it till it came within two
oars length, when, taking my suzee, I let fly at
him: Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but
he made towards the shore, and the noise of my gun
encreased the stupenduous noise of the monsters.
B 2 The:
r i6' r
The next morning, I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my life among beasts
or savages, should either attack me. Xury said he
would take one of the jars and bring me some. I
asked him why he would go, and not I. The poor
boy answered, if wild mans come, they eat me, you go
away. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so conT
trary to self-preservation, the most powersul law of
nature! This indeed encreased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we will both go
ajhore, both eat wild mans, and they jhall eat neither
of us. So giving Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat,
and a dram, we waded ashore, carrying nothing with
us but our arms, and two jars for water. I did not
go out of sight of the boat, as dreading the savages
coming down the river in their canoes. But the boy
seeing a low descent, or vale, about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it; and then running back
to me with great precipitation, I thought he was
pursued by some savage or wild beast, upon which I
approached, resolving to perish or protect him from
danger. As he came nearer to .me, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and
longer legs; however, we were glad of it, for it
proved wholesome nourishing meat; but what added
to our joy was, my boy assured me there was plenty
of water, and that he see no wild mans: And greater
still was our comfort, when we found fresh water in
the creek, where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place I began to consider that the Canary
and the Cape de Verd islands lay not far off; but ha-
ving no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or
when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes were,
I should meet some of the Englijh trading veflels,
who would relieve and take us up.
The
The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild fort
of country, inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes: It was filkd with wild beasts, and the
Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From this place I
thought I saw the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in
the Canaries; which made me try twice to attain it,.
but as often was I drove back, and so forced to pur-
sue my fortune along the shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high, and the tide
beginning to slow, we lay ready to go farther in:
But Xury, whose youthsul and penetrating eyes
were sharper than mine, in a soft tone, defired me to
keep far from land, lest we should be devoured: For
look yonder, Meyter, said he, and fee de dreadful mon-
Jler fajl ajleep on the fide of the hill. Accordingly,
looking where he pointed, I espied a fearsul monstez
indeed; it was a terrible great lion that lay on shore,
covered as it were by the shade of a piece of the hill.
Xury, said I, you jhall go on jhore and kill him. But
the boy looked amazed: Me kill him, fays he, he eat
me at one mouth; meaning one mouthsul. Upon
which I bid him lie still, and charging my biggest
fun with two flugs, and a good charge of powder,
took the best aim I could to shoot him through the
head; but his leg lying over his nose, the Aug broke
his knee-bone. The lion, awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most hideous
groan I ever heard: But taking my second piece, I
shot him thro' the head, and then helay struggling for
. life. Upon this Xury took heart, and defired my leave
to go on shore. Go then, said I. Upon which, taking
a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore with the
other, and coming close to the Lion, put a period
to his life, by shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain,
the stem not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
B 3 pion,
C 18 )
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet, to cut off
to perform, cut osf a foot. But I bethought myself
that his skin would be of great use, which cost Xury
and I a whole day's work; when spreading it on the
top of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun so effec-
tually dried it, in two days time, that it afterwards
served me for a bed to lie upon.
And now we sailed southwardly, living sparingly
on our provisions, and went no oftener on shore than
we were obliged for fresh water. My design was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about
the Cape de Verd, In hopes to meet some European
ship. If Providence did not so savour, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the Negroes. And, in a word, I put my
whole stress upon this, either that I mujt meet with
some jhip, or certainly peri/h.
But, as we were sailing along, we saw people
stand on the shore to look at us $ we could also per-
ceive they were black and stark naked. I was in-
clined to go on shore; but Xury cried, No, no;
however, I approached nearer, and I found they
run along the shore by me a good way: They had
no weapons in their hands, except one, who held a
'long stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with
which they could kill at a great distance. I talked
to them by signs, and made them sensible I wanted
something to eat: They beckoned to me to stop my
boat; while two of them run up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back and brought
with them two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn,
which we kindly accepted ; and to prevent any fears
of either side, they brought the food to the shore, laid
it down, then went and stood a great way off, till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
.But while we were returning thanks to them, be-
ing all we could offer, two mighty creatures came

which not having strength
from
C «9 1
from the mountains, one as it were pursuing the
other with great sury, which we were inclined to
believe, because they seldom appear but in the night;
and both these swiftly passing by the Negroes, jumped
into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their
fierceness. At last, one of them coming nearer my
boat than I expected or defired, I shot him directly
through the head; upon which he sunk immediately,
yet rising again, would have willingly made to the
shore; but between the wound and the strangling of
the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is not possible for me to express the consterna-
tion the poor Negroes were in at the firing my gun;
much less can I mention their surprise, when they
perceived the creature to be flain by it. I made signs
to them to draw near it, and then gave them a rope
to hale it on more. It was a beautisul leopard,
which made me defire its skin; and the Negroes
seeming to covet the carcase, I very freely gave it to
them. As for the other leopaid, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of sight.
The Negroes having kindly surnished me with water
and with what roots and grain their country afforded,
I took my leave, and after eleven days fail, I came
in sight of the Cape de Verd, and those islands called
by its name. But the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds would prevent my
reaching either of them, I grew melancholy and
dejected; when, on .a sudden, Xury cried out,
Master, Majler, a jhip with a fail; and looked so
frightened, as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us: But I soon discovered she was a Por-
tugueze ship, and, as I thought, bound to the coast
of Guinea, for Negroes. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them; but vain had it been, if,
through their perspective glasses, they had not percei-
ved me, and slwrtened their fail to let me come up.
Encouraged
f 20 J
Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's antient,
and sired a gun, both as signals of distress; upon
which they very kindly lay to; so that in three hours
time I came up with them. They spoke to me in
Portuguese, Spani/h, and French, but neither of these
did I understand; till at length a Scots sailor called,
and then I told him I was an Englishman, who had
escaped from the Moors of Sallee; upon which they
took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express that inconceivable joy my
heart felt at this my happy deliverance; who, from
being a miserable and forlorn creature, was not only
relieved, but in favour with the master of the ship,
whom in return for my deliverance I offered all I had
to him; God forbid, said he, that I jhoidd take any
thing from you, every thing jhall be delivered to you when
you come to Brasil: If I have saved your life, it is. no
more than I jhould expecJ to receive myself from any
other, when in the fame circumstances, 1 jhould happen
to meet the like deliverance; and jhould I take from you
what you have, and leave you at Brafil, why this
would be only taking away a life I have given; my cha-
rity teaches me better; those effecls you have will support
you there, and provide you a passage home again. And
indeed he acted with the strictest justice in what he
did, taking my things into his possession, and gi-
ving me an exact inventory, even to my earthen jars.
He bought my boat of me for the ship's use, giving
me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable' at Bra-
sil, and if any body offered more he would make it
up. He also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury.
It was With great reluctance I was prevailed upon to
fell the child's liberty, who had served me so faith-
sully; but the boy himself was willing, and it was
agreed, that after ten years, he should be made free,
upon his renouncing Mahometanism and embracing
Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brajils, we ar-
rived
r a y
rived in the' Bay dt Todos los Santos, or All-Saints Bay,
in about 22 days after. And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain; he would
take nothing for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for
the leopard's skin, and 30 for the lion's: Every thing
he caused to be delivered; and what I would sell he
bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of my
cargo, and with this stock I entered once more, as I
may fay, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and seeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filled with an emulation, at least, to settle
among them, resolving to get my money remitted to
me, and to purchase me a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lijbon, of Englijh
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we im-
proved it very amicable together: Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for
food: But the third year we planted some tobacco,
preparing each a large piece of ground for planting
canes the.ensuing year; but now wanting assistance,
I repented the loss of my dear boy Xury.
Here having none to assist me, my father's words
came again into my mind; and if only a middle sta-
tion of life I fought, why could it not as well be
obtained in England as here? When I pondered of
this with regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance
forsook me; I ;had none to converse with but my
neighbour; no work to be done but by my own
hands; and this often made me fay, my condition
was like that of a man cast upon a desolate island.
So unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetsul
what good things we receive ourselves, and so un-
thanksul for our deliverance from those calamities
that others endure.
I was
r 22 r
I was in some measure settled before the captain
who took me up departed from the Brajils. One day
I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in obtaining its remit-
tance. To which the good gentleman readily con-
sented, but would only have me send for half my
money, lest it should miscarry; which if it did, the
remainder might support me: And so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
farther about it.
And indeed wondersul was his kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a
servant, with a cargo proportionable to my condi- .
tion. He also sent me over tools of all forts, iron-
Work, and utenfils necessary for my plantation, and
which proved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might'
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
Content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in
rising greater than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus, once more, I cast myself into the deepest
gulf of misery that ever abandoned creature fell
into. For having lived four years in Brajll, I not
only learnt the language, but contracted acquaint-
ance with the most eminent planters, and even the
merchants of St. Salvadore; to whom, by way of
discourse, giving an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading there
for mere trifles, by which we might surnish our
plantations with Negroes, they gave such attention
to what I said, that three of them came one morn-
ing to me, and told me they had a secret proposal to
make. After enjoining me to secresy (it being an
infringement on the powers of the.kings of Portugal
and Spain) they told me they had a mind to fit out a
fl;ip to go Guinea, in order to stock the plantation
with Negroes, which, as they could not be publicly
sold, they would divide among them; and if I would
go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the tra-
ding part, I should have an equal (hare of the Ne-
groes, without providing any stock. The thing in-
deed was fair enough, had I been in another condi-
tion; but I, born to be my own destroyer, could
not resist the proposal; but accepted the offer, upon
condition of their looking after my plantation: So,
making a formal will, I bequeathed my effects to my
good friend the captain, as my universal heir; but
obliged him to dispose of my effects as directed, one
half of my produce to himself, and the other to be
shipped for England.
The ship being fitted out, and all things ready,
we set sail the first of September, 1659, being the
same day eight years I left my father and mother in
Tori/hire. We sailed northward upon the coast,
in order to gain Africa, till we made Cape Auguftine,
from whence going surther in the ocean, out of sight
of land, we steered as though we were bound for the
isle of Fernand de Norenba, leaving the islands on the
east; and then it was we met with a cruel tempest,
which held us for twelve days successively; so that
the waters carried us wheresoever they pleased. In
this perplexity one of our men died, and one man and
the boy were washed over-board. When the weather
cleared up a little, we found ourselves eleven degrees
north latitude upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this
the captain gave reasons for returning, which I
opposed, counselling him to stand away for Barbadoes,
which as I supposed might be attained in 15 days.
So altering our course, we sailed north-west and by
west, in order to reach the Leeward islands; but a
second storm succeeding, drove us to the westward,
so that we were justly afraid of falling into the hands
of cruel Savages, or the paws of devouring beasts of
Pre7.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the
morning, cried out, Land, Lands when no sooner
looking out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and in
a moment the sea broke over in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately.
We knew nothing where we were, or upon what
land we were driven; whether an island or the main;
inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not so
much as hope that the ship would hold many mi-
nutes, without breaking in pieces, except the wind,
by a miracle, should turn about immediately. While
we stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate laid hold of the boat, and,
with the help of the rest, got her flung over the
ship's side, and getting all into her, being eleven of
us, committed ourselves to God's mercy, and the
wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort would
not be a susficient protection from death; so high did
the sea run, that it was impossible the boat should *
live. As to making fail, we had none; neither,
if we had, could we make use of any. So that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rowling astern of us, and took us with such
fury, that at once it overset the boat. 'Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to
call upon the tremendous name of God; much less
to implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy,
to receive our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadsul appre-
hensions imaginable; for the joys of heaven, and
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even in the small space
of time, as it were, between life and death. I was
goings
going, I thought, I knew not whither, in a dismal
gulf unknown, and as yet unpsrceived, never to be-
hold my friends, nor the light of this world any
more! Gould I even have ^hou ;ht annihilation, or
a total dissolution of soul as well as body, the gloomy
thoughts of having no surther being, no knowledge
of what we hoped for, but an eternal quietus, with-
out life or fense; even that, I fay, would have been
enough to strike me with horror and consusion! But
striving to the last extremity, while I thought all my
.companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep, it was with great difficulty I kept my breath
till the wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had taken in.
However, I got on my feet as soft as I could, lest
another wave should pursue, and carry me back
again; but for all the haste I made, I could not
avoid it; for the sea came after me like a high
mountain, or surious enemy, so that my business was
to hold my breath, and by raising .myself on the
water, preserve it by swimming; the next dreadsul
wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep,
but at the same time carried me with a mighty force
and swiftness .towards the shore; when raising my-
self, I held out as well as possible, 'till at length the
water having spent itself, began to return, at which
I struck forward, and feeling ground with my feet,
I took to my heels again; thus being served twice
more, I was at last dashed against a piece of a rock,
in such a manner as left me senseless; but recovering
a little before the return of the waves, which, no
doubt, then would have overwhelmed me, I held
fast by the rock till those succeeding waves abated;
and then, fetching another run, was overtook by a .
small wave, which was soon conquered; but before
any more could overtake me, I reached the main
land, where clambering up the clifts of the shore,
tired and almost spent, I sat down on the grass, free
from the dangers of the foaming ocean.
C No
I 26 ]
Ttfo tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my ibul felt at this happy deliverance, it was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter
about. his neck, and ready to be turned off. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
Powers, for saving my, life, when the rest of my
companions were all drowned. And now I began
to cast my eyes around, to behold what place I was
in, and what I had nepct to do. I could fee no
house, nor people: I was wet, yet had no clothes to
shift me; hungry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or
drink; no weapon to destroy any creature for my
sustenance, nor defend myself against devouring
beasts: In short, I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a box half silled with tobacco. The dark-
some night Coming upon me, increased my fears of
being devoured by wild creatures; my mind was
plunged in despair; and, having no prospect, as I
thought, of life before me, prepared for' another
kind of death than what I had lately escaped. I
walked about a surlong to see if I could sind any fresh
water, which I did to my great joy, and taking a
quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got up into a
thick bushy tree, and seating myself so that I could
not fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for that night
buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awa-
ked; when not only I perceived the tempest was
ceased, but the ship was driven almost as far as the
rock beforementioned, where the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat
two miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore,
as the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her, but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistance. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved.
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears front
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the snip, I ftript, and leapt into the water; when
swimming round her, I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good for-
tune to espy a small piece of rope hang down by the
. fore-chains so low, that with great difficulty, by the
help of it, I got into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold; her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost in the wa-
ter: All her quarter, and what was there, were free
and dry. The provisions I found in good order,
with which I crammed my pockets; and, losing no
time, eat while I was doing other things; I also
found some rum, of which I took a hearty dram;
and now I wanted for nothing except a boat, which
indeed was all, to carry away what was needsul for
me.
Necessity occasions quickness os' thought. We .
had several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and
two or three large spars of wood: With these I fell
to v..ork, and flung as many of them overboard as I
ccjuld manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side, and tied four of them fast to-
gether at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any consi-
derable weight. Upon which I went to work again,
cutting a spare topmast into three lengths, adding
them'^to my raft with a great deal of labour ana
pains. I then considered what I should load it with,
C 2 it
it being not able to.bear a ponderous burden. And
this I soon thought of, first laying upon it all "the
pknks and boards I could get; next I lowered down
three of the seamens chests, after I had filled them
with bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goat's flesh, and some European corn, what
little the rats had spared; but for the liquors,
I found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper. In which were some cordial waters, and
four or five gallons of rack, which I stowed by them-
selves. By this time the tide beginning to flow, I
perceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt, swim away,
which I had left on the shore; as for my linen
breeches and stockings, I swam with them on to
I ship: But I soon found clothes enough, yet took
no more than I wanted for the present. My eyes
were chiefly on tools to work with; and after
. long search I found out the carpenter's chest,
/ which I got safe down on my raft: Then I looked
\ for arms and ammunition, and,' in the great cabin,
? found two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, several
powder-horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two
rusty old swords. I also found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third had
i taken water; with two or three broken oars, two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, I put to sea; and in
getting to shore, I had three encouragements; 1. A
smooth calm sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in
to the shore. 3. The little wind there was blew to-
wards Jand. But after I had sailed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little distance from the place .
. wh»fe I first landed; and then I perceived a little
opening of the land, with a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept in the middle of
the stream: But great was my concern, when on a
sudden the fore-part of my raft run aground 5 so that
had I not with great disficulty, for near half an hour,
kept
.. .
. s 29 ] ^
kept my back straining against the chests, to keep my
effects in their places, all I had would have gone
into the sea. Btit aster some time, the rising of the
water caused the raft to float again, when coming up
a little river, with land on both Tides, I landed in a *-
little cove, as near the mouth as possible, the Better
to discover a sail, if any such providentially passed
by that way.
Not far off, I spied a hill of a stupendous heighth, .
surrounded with lesser hills about it: and (jhither I
was resolved to go and view the country, that I
might see what part was the best place to six my
habitation in: Accordingly, arming myself. with a
pistol, a fowling-piece, powder, and ball, I ascend- v
ed the mountain: There I perceived I was in an * i
island encompassed by the sea; no distant lands to be
seen, but scattering rocks that lay to the west; that
it seemed a barren place, and, as I thought, inha-'
bited only by wild beasts. I perceived abundance of
fowls, but ignorant of what kind, or whether good
for nourishment; I shot one of them at my return,
which occasioned a consused screaming among the
other birds; and I found it, by its colour and beak,
to be a kind of hawk, but its flesh was perfect
carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely; and
fearing that some cruel beasts might devour me in the
night while I slept, I made a kind of a hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I brought from
shore. That night I slept very comfortably, and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make a
further attempt on the ship, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm should
break her to-pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a second raft, far more nice
than the first; upon which I brought away the car-
penter's stores, two or three bags sull of nails, a
C 3 great
C 30 ]
great jack screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and
a grindstone. I also took away several things' that
belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, two barrels of musket-bullets, another
fowling-piece, a small quantity of powder, and a
1 large bag sull of small shot. Besides these, I took
[ all the mens clothes I could findJ a spare fore-top
sail, hammock, and some beddingl; and thus com-
pleting my second cargo, I made all the haste to
shore I could, fearing some wild beast might destroy
what I had there already. But I only found a little
wild cat sitting on one of the chests, who not seem-
ing to fear me, or the gun that I presented to her, I
threw her a piece of biscuit, which she instantly eat,
and departed.
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with the
sail and some poles which I had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be damaged
by the weather, I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards, and
an empty chest turned the long way without. I
then charged my gun and pistol: and laying my
bed on the ground, slept as comfortably, till next
morning, as tho' I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet, despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
fore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could: And so long as the ship remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage; some
twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a bar-
rel of meal, three casks of rum; and what indeed
was most welcome .to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
'. The
. The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a haulser whole, with a great deal of iron-
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-fail yards, but this being so unweildy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being able
dextrously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and I were overturned. For my part, all the da-
mage I sustained was a wet skin; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the ca-
bles, and some pieces of iron. . .
Thirteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; though, I believe, had the weather been
calm, I should have brought away the whole ship,
piece by piece. As I was going the twelfth time,
the wind began to rife, however, I ventured at low
water, and rummaging the cabin effectually, in a
locker I found several razors, seissers, and some
dozens of knives and forks; and in another thirty-
six pounds in pieces of eight, filver, and gold. Ah!
simple vanity.. said I, whom this world so much doats
on, where is now thy virtue, thy excellency to me? You
cannot procure me .one thing needful, nor remove me from
this desolate ijland to a place of plenty: One os these
knives, so meanly ejteemed, is to me more preferable than
all this heap. E'en therefore remain where thou art, . to
sink in the deep, as unregarded, even as a creature whose
life is not worth preserving. Yet after all this excla-
mation, I wrapt it up in a piece of canvas, and be-
gan to think of making another raft; but soon I
perceived the wind began to rife, a fresh gale blow-
ing from the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds
and darkness. So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let
myself into the water with what things I had about
me, and it was with much disficulty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearsul storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tent, surrounded with all my effects 3 but when I
. . . looked
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This much surprized me for the present, yet
when I considered I had lolt no time, abated no pains,
and had got every thing usesul out of her, I com-
forted myself in the belt manner, and entirely sub-
mitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if
any such were in the island. At one time I thought
of digging a cave; at another, I was for erecting
a tent; and, in short, I resolved to do both: The
manner or form of which will not, I hope, be un-
pleasing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was; that
it was moorish, and had no fresh water near it; my
resolutions were to search for a soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men and
beasts of prey, as more eafily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my de-
sire, I found a little plain near a rising hill, the
front towards which being as steep as a house-side
nothing could descend on me from the top. On the
side of this rock was a little hollow place, resem-
bling the entrance or door of a cave. Just before
this place, on the circle of the green, I resolved my
tent should stand. This plain did not much ex-
ceed 100 yards broad, and about twice as long, like
a delightsul green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side
of the hill, so that it was sheltered from the exces-
sive heat of the sun. After this I drew a semi-
circle, containing ten yards in its semi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two
lows of strong stakes, not six inches from each
other.
ether. Then with the pieces of cable which I had
cut on board, I regularly laid them in the circle be-
tween the piles up to their tops, which were more
than five feet out of the earth, and after drove an-
other row of piles looking within-side against them,
between two or three feet high, which made me
conclude it a little impregnable cattle, from men and
. beasts: And for my better security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches, ammunition and stores. Af-
ter which, working on the rock, what with the dirt
and stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground
two feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-
house; and this cost me many days labour and pains.
But one day in particular a shower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning ensued, which put me in ter-
ror, lest my powder Thouid take fire, and not only
hinder my necessary subsistance from killing me food,
but even blow up me and my habitation: To pre-
vent which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in or-
der to separate it, having by me near 150 weight.
And thus being established as king of the island,
every day I went out with my gun to fee what I could
kill that was fit to eat. I soon perceived numbers
pf goats, but very shy: Yet having watched them
narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot off the
rocks than when in the low grounds, l one day hap-
pened to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid; who
not thinking its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted the
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it
alive; but finding it couid not be brought to eat, I
was forced to flay it also for my own subsistance.
. Thus entered into a strange scene of life, as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy apprehen-
,„' sions
when I considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human-kind. And while some
desponding cogitations would seem to make me ac-
cuse Providence, other good thoughts would interpose
jind reprove, after this manner: Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so, than to-
tally perish? Why were you singled out to be saved,
and the rest destroyed? Why mould you complain,.
when not only your life is preserved, but the ship
driven even into your reach, in order to Sake what
was necessary out of her for your subsistance? But to
proceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September, when I first landed on this island: About
twelve dajs^fter, fearing I should lose, my reckon -
mg~oFtime, nay even forget the Sabbath-days, for
; want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved it with a
knife upon a large post, in great letters, and setting
'it up, in the similitude of a cross, on the^ea-shore.
where I landed, viz. I came on jhore, Sept. 30, 1659.
Every day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides
of this square post, and that on Sabbath was as long
\ again as the rest; and every day of the month as
long again as that long one: In this manner I kept
I my kalendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckon-
ing of time. But had I made a more strict search-
es I did afterwards) I need not have set up this
mark: For among the parcels belonging to the gun-
ner, carpenter, and captain's mate, those very things
I wanted I found, particularly pens, ink, and paper;
also two or three compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, prospective, books of navigation,
three Englijh Bibles, and several other good books,
which I caresully put up. But here I cannot but
call to mind our having a dog and two cats onboard,
whom I imade inhabitants with me in my castle.
But though one might think I had all the necessaries
. . as
r 35 i
as were desirable, yet still I found several things want-
ing. My ink was daily wasting; 1 wanted needles,
pins, and thread, to mend or keep my clothes to-.
gether; particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth: It was a year before 1 finished
my little bulwark; and having some intervals of re-
laxation, after my daily wandering abroad for pro-
viiion, 1 drew up this plan alternately, as creditor
and debtor, to remind me of the miseries and blessings
of my life, under so many various circumstances.
? V I L.
/ am cajt upon a desolate
ijland, having no hjpes, no
prospect os a welcome deli-
verance.
Thus miserably am Isin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company os all mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
jhould I say, a lovely an-
chorite) am I forced from
human conversation".
My clothes, after some
time, will be worn out;
and then I jhall have none
to cover me.
IVhen my ammunition is
wafted, then jhall I remain
without any defence againjt
wild men and beajts.
I have no creature, no
foul to speak to; none to
beg assistance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
sound my woes where I am
underjtood;
GOOD.
But yet I am preserved,
while my companions arepe-
rijhed in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to bespared
from death! and he who
has so preserved me can de-
liver me from this condition
Hoivever I have food to
eat, and even a happy pros-
specl of subsijlance whilst
Use endures.
At present I enjoy what
is absolute needful; and the
climate is so hot, that, had I
ever so many, I jhould hard-
ly wear them.
Yet is it does, Ifee no dan-
ger of any to hurt me, as in
Africk : And what if I had
been cast away on that coajt?
Is there not God to con-
verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee? Already has
he afforded thee sujtenance;
and
r 36.]
tfnderftood; and beg "asjijl- and put it in thy power to
ence, where I might hope provide for tinsels till lx
for relief. sends thee a deliverance.
And now easing my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.
I must here add, to the description 1 have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, 1 thatched it so close, as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather. I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
sage and door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study those
mechanical arts that seemed to me practicable: For
when 1 wanted a plank or board, 1 .hewed down a
tree with my hatchet, making it as thin with my
axe as possible, and then smooth enough with my
adze to answer my designs; yet this way could I
make no more than one board out of a tree: But in
length of time, I got boards enough to shelter all
my stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of the
rock. All this made it a very pleasant sight to me,
being the result of vast labour and diligence; which
leaving for a while, and me to the enjoyment of, I
shall give the reader an account of my Journal from
the day of my landing, till the sixing and settling of
my habitation, as heretofore shewn.
JOURNAL. i
September 30, 1^59. 1 unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this deso-
late island, which i named the Desolate Island of De-
spair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day 1 spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect,
but os death, either to be starved with hunger, or
devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
OSiob. i. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had,
that when the storm was abated, I might be.able to
get some food and necessaries out of her; which I
conceived were not damaged, because the ship did
stand upright. At this time I lamented the loss of
my companions, .and our misfortune in leaving the
vessel. When I perceived the ship, as it were, lie
dry, I waded through the sands, then swam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, and with scarcely any
wind. . /
To the 24th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages, every tide getting what
I could out of the ship. The weather very wet and
uncertain. . - .
Otfob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon,
were overset; yet I recovered most again at low
water.
Oftob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship dissolved in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low water.
This day 1 secured my goods from the inclemency
of the weather.
Ottob. 26. I wandered to fee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. I sixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half-moon, intending
to erect a wall, fortified with piles, lined within
with pieces of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov. 1. I erected my tent under a rock; and took
up my lodging very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber,
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3. 1 shot two wild fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat; and in the afternoon made
me a table.
D "Nov.
s 38 g
. Nov. 4. I began to live regularly: In the morn-
ing, i allowed myself two cr tltree hours to walk out
with my gun; then work till near 11 o'clock: and
after refresh myself with what I had to eat. From
12 to 2 I would lie down to sleep. Extreme sultry
weather: in the evening go to work again.
.Nov. 5. Went out w ith my gun and ioz, shot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good far
nothing. The skins of those I killed 1 preserved.
In my return I perceived many wild birds, and was
terrified by some seals, which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the I2th,
'but emitted the nth, which, according to my cal-
culation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which however much
cooled the earth, when thunder and lightning cau-
sed in me a terrible surprize. The weather clearing,
in separate parcels I secured my powder.
Nov. 1^ to 16. I made little boxes for my pow-
der, lodging them in several places. I also shot a
large fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and wheel-
barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the place of the
sirst, but with all my artcouldnot make a wheelbarrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, re-
sembling what the Brasilians call an iron tree. I had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very
hard and exceeding heavy; yet with much labour
and industry I made a sort of a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business, eighteen days I allowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve me not only for a
warehouse, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I
commonly lay in the tent unless the' weather was
rainy that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at
certain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within
[. 39 I
die pale with long poles in the form of rafters lean-
ing against the rock, and load them with flags and'
large leaves of trees resembling a thatch..
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,.
so that."it was a mercy I was not burred in the ruins_
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me, before 1 could make it firm and durable.
Dec. if. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts to hang things ouf
of the way. *
Dec. 20. Every" thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance..
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec. 27s I chanced to light on some goats, shot"
orte, wounded another; I Ted'it.home in a string,
bound up his leg, and cured it in a little time; at
length it became so tame and familiar, as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put.me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food aster my ammunition was
spent. .
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being cxceslive hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep.
within doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by ne-
cessity, I went out with my gun, and found a great
store of goats in the vallies ; they were exceeding
shy, nor could my dog hunt them down.
"Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time was to
finish the wall before described, and search the island.
I discovered a kind of pigeons like our house pi-
geons, in a nest among the rocks: I brought them .
home, nurs'd them till they could fly, and then they
left me. After this I shot some which proved ex-
cellent food. Some time I spent vainly in contriving
to make a cask; I may well say it was vain, because
D 2 I could
I could neither join the staves, or six the heads, so
as to make it tight. Then taking some goat's tallow
I had by me, and a little ekum for the wick, I pro-
vided myself with a lamp, which served me instead
of candles.
But now a very strange event happened: For being
in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag, which was used to hold corn
(as I supposed) for the fowls: So immediately re-
solving to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the husks
and dirt upon one side of the rock, little suspecting
what the consequence would be. The rain had
fallen plentisully a few days before; and about a
month after, to my great amazement, something be-
gan to spout out very green and flourishing: And when
I came to view it more nicely, every day," as.it grew,
I found about 10 or 12 ears of gree' barley appeared
in the very fame shape and make as that in England.
\ can scarce express the agitations of my mind at
this sight. Hitherto I had" lopked upon the actions
of this life, no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune: But now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren sojl to the sort
of grain, and my ignorance in not conceiving how it
should come there, made me conclude that miracles
.were not yet ceased: Nay, I even thought that God
had appointed it to grow there without any seed, pure-
ly for my sustenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And indeed such great effect had this upon me,
that it often made me melt into tears, thro' a gratesul
sense of God's mercies; and the greater still was my
thanksulness, when I perceived about this little field
of barley some rice stalks, wondersully flourishing in
proportion to the crop within.
While I was thus wondersully pleased in mind, I
concluded there must be more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly among
the rocks, but could not find any; when upon a
sudden
sudden it came into my mind, how I had shaken the
husks of eorn out of the bag, and then my admiration
ceased, with my gratitude to the Divine Being, as
thinking it was but natural, and not to be conceived
a miracle; though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wondersul
event of God's kind Providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very caresully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
day I should reap the fruit of my labour; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before I had
any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and
industry for three or four months, at last 1 "finished.
my wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
into it, but by a ladder againfl; the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
after pulled it up, then let it down on the other side,
and descended into my. new habitation, where I had
space enough, and so fortified that nothing could at-
tack me without scaling the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry avail,
if the blessings of God do not crown our labours?
Or, who can stand before the Almighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm : For one time, as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened such a
dreadsul earthquake, that not only the roof of the
cave came crumbling about my ears, but the posts
seemed to crack terribly at the same time. This made
me, in great amazement, run to my ladder and get
over the wail: When there I plainly knew it was an
earthquake., the place 1 stood on sustaining three
terrible shocks in less than three minutes. And when
I saw the top of a great rock rowl into the sea, then
I expected the island would be swallowed up every
moment: And dreadsul it was to fee the sea thrown
D 3 . intQ
into the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous accident.
For my part, I stood like a criminal, at the place
of execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the
earth, I was, as it were, fea-sick; and very much
afraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation should overwhelm me and it in a lasting
tomb.
When the third dreadsul shock had spent itself,
my spirits began to revive; yet still I would not
venture to ascend the ladder, but continued sitting,
not knowing what I should do. So little grace then
I had, only to say, Lard, have mercy upon me! and
no sooner was the earthquake over, but that pathetic
prayer left me.
It was not long after when a horrible tempest
arose, at the same time attended with a hurricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
ilorm continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain. When this was over I went
to my tent, but the rain coming again upon me in a
surious manner, obliged me to take shelter in the
cave; and then I was forced to cut a channel thro'
my fortification to let the water out. It Continued
raining all that night, and some time the next day:
Yet no sooner did the weather clear. up, but I resol-
ved to build me a little hut in some open place, wall'd
round, to defend me from wild creatures and savages,
as not thinking but at the next earthquake the moun-
tain would fall upon my habitation and me, and
swallow up all in its bowels.
April i g, 20. These days I spent in contriving how
and in what manner I should six my place of abode:
All this while I was under the most dreadsul ap-
prehensions. When I looked round my habitation,-
(Svery
every thing 1 found in its proper place. I had several
resolutions whether I should move or not. At
length I resolved to stay where I was till 1 had sound
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
Apr. 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopt for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axefe and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a sull week
to make my grindstone of use to me, and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
the help of a wheel' and a string. 1
Apr. 28, 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
Apr. 30. My bread falling stiort, I allowed my-
self but one biscuit a-day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn off,
and washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
in the sands, This, I supposed, was occasioned by
. the earthquake. Now I resolved to keep my old
place of abode; and also to go to the Ihip that day,
but found it impossible.
May 3. I went on board, and with my saw saw'd
osf one of the beams which kept her quarter-deck;
then I cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The same day I also catched a young
dolphin.
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck,
and saw'd another piece of timber: and when the
flood came, I made a float of three great planks,
which was driven ashore by the tide.
May 6, 7, 8, 9. These days I brought oft* the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow> and car-
ried
ried two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.
May io, ii, 12, 13, 14. All this time I spent in
bringing osf great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on purpose
to cut off some lead off the roll, but all in vain, for
it lay too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day,
for employing myself in looking for pigeons, I out-
ftay'd my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged to the head of
the ship.
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck,
and with great difficulty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and many of the feamens
chests; yet that day nothing came to land, but pie-
ces of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brafil
pork in it. I continued working to the 15 th of
June (except necessary times for food and rest) and
had I known how to have built a boat, I had timber
and planks enough: I had also near 100 weight of
sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the sea-
side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the
first I had seen on the island, though, as I after-
wards found, there were many on the other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most sa-
voury and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain; and it. was something more chilly
and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and shivering.
June
"June 20. Awake all night, my head rack'd with
pain, and feverish.
June 2i. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition: Pray'd to
God frequently, but very consusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. Again relapsed, much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
out, shot a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
fome of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an ague;
tl.. rsty, yet could not help myself to water: Pray'd
to God in these words: Lord, in pity look upon me,
Lord, have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me! After
this I fell asleep, which I found had much refreshed
me when I awaked. I fell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the fame spot of
ground, at the outside of the wall, where I sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I saw
a man descending from a great black cloud, and
light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as
a flash of fire, that a little before surrounded him;
his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth,
as it were, trembled when he stept upon the ground,
and flashes of fire seemed to fill all the air. No sooner
I thought him landed upon the earth, but with a
long spear or other weapon he made towards me;
but first ascending a rising ground, his voice added to
my amazement, when I thought I heard him pro-
nounce these dreadsul word3, Unhappy wretch! seeing
all these things have 'not brought thee to repentance, thou
Jhalt immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadsul
sentence, I thought he went to kill me with the
spear that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express
the horrors of my mind at this vision; and even when
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had
I received from my father's instructions, and that was
worn out by an interrupted series of seafaring impiety
for eight years space, except what sickness forced
from me; I don't remember I had one thought of.
lifting up my heart towards God; but rather had a
certain stupidity of soul, not having the least fense of
fear of the omnipotent Being when in distress, nor
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when
I was on the desperate expedition on the desart Afri-
can shore, I can't remember I had one thought of
what would become of me, or beg his consolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably used
me; nay, farther, when I was even delivered from
drowning by escaping to this island, I never looked
upon it as a judgment, but only said I was an un-
fortunate dog, and that's all. Indeed some secret
transports of soul I had, which was not thro' grace,
but only a common flight of joy, that I was yet
alive, when my companions were all drown'd : And
no other joy could I conceive but what is common
with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they
have escaped. the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniences, might have called upon me for a
thanksul acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed the
growth of my corn touched me with some fense, but
that soon wore off again: The terrible earthquake
pointed to me as it were the singer of God, but my
dreadsul amazement continued no longer than its
duration. But now, when my spirits began to sink
under
under the burden of a strong distemper, and I could
leisurely view the miseries of death present itself
before my eyes; then my awakened conscience be-
gan to reproach me with my past life, in which I had
so wickedly provoked the justice of God to pour
down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered,
which only proceeded srom my fear of death. But
.when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping: For he told me, That
if I did perfi/l in my folly, I jhould not only be deprived
of God's blejjing, but have time enough to refle£t upon
my despising his injlruflions; and this in a wretched
time, when none could help me. And now concluding
it to be sulfilled, having no foul in the island to ad-
minister any comfort to me, I prayed, however, ear-
nestly, to the Lord, that he would help me in this my
great calamity. And this, I think, was the first time
1 prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I
must return to my Journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, Igot up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation; and fearing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it a
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed; and to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum into it, The next I did was to boil
me. a.piece of goat's .flesh, of which I eat but little.
I was very weak, however walked about, dreading
the return of my distemper; and at night I supp'd on
three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted and eat,
begging God's blessing therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of
doors with my gun; but so weak, that 1 fat down
and looked at the sea, which was smooth and calm:
While
While I continued here, these thoughts came inta
my mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence
came myself, and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made? _
Our beings were assuredly created by some Al-
mighty invisible Power, who framed the earth, the
sea, and air, and all therein. But what is that
. Power? .
Certainly it must follow, that God has created it
all. Yet, said I, if God has made all this, he must
be the ruler of them all, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes must indis-
putably have a power to guide and direct them. And
if this be so (as certainly it must) nothing can hap-
pen without his knowledge or appointment. Then
surely, if nothing happens without God's appoint-
ment, certainly God has appointed these my suf-
ferings to befal me. And here I sixed my firm be-
lief that it was'his will that it mould be so; and then
proceeded to inquire, why should God deal with me
in this manner? Or what had I done thus*to deserve
his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me
as a blasphemer; crying with a loud and piercing
voice, Unworthy wretch! dare you ajk ivhat you have
done? Look upon your pajl life, and see what you have
left undone. Ask thyself, why thou wert not long .
ago in the merciless hands of death? Why not
drowned in Yarmouth roads, or killed in the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Why not entombed in the bowels of wjld beasts on
the African coast, or drowned here when all thy
companions suffered shipwreck.
Struck dumb with" these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtsul that I could not
go to sleep: And scaring the dreadsul return of my
. . distemper
distemper, it caused me to remember that the Bra-
filians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went
to my chest, in order to find some, where heaven no
doubt directed me to a cure for both soul and.body;
for there I found one of the Bibles, which till this
time I had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into: I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First I took a
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupified me. Next I steeped it in
some rum an hour or two, resolving when 1 went to
bed to take a doze of it; and in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of fire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure the least heat without
suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
.was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the Bible to read: No sooner did I open it, but
there appeared to me these words, Call on me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou /halt glorify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but soon wore off again, when I con-
sidered the word deliver was foreign to me. And as
the children of Israel said, when they were promised
flesh to eat; Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
In like manner I began to say, Can God himself
deliver me from this desolate island I However, the
words would still return to my mind, and after made
'a greater impression upon me. As it now was very
late," and the tobacco had dozed my head, 1 was in-
clined to sleep; but before I would lie down, I fell
on my knees, and implored the promise that God
had made to me in the Holy Scriptures, that if I called
upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me,
With much difficulty I after drank the rum, where-
in I had steeped the tobacco; which flying in my
head very violently, threw me into such a profound
E . sleep,
sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, I believe, I slept two days, ha-
ving certainly lost a day in my own account, and I
could never tell any other way. When I got up,
my spirits were lively and chearsul; my stomach
much better, being very hungry; and, in short, no
fit returned the next day, which was the 29th, but
much altered for the better.
The 30th, I went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and kill'd a sea fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which yet I cared not to eat when I brought
them home, but dined. on two more of the turtle's
eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, ex-
cept not taking that quantity, neither did I chew of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoak, yet the
next day I had a little spice of the cold fit, which
was on the 1st of July.
July 2. I took my medicines as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often thought of these words, I will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me for disregarding the deliverances I had
received, even in the most forlprn, and distressed
condition. What regard had I to God's abundant
mercies? Had I done my part? He had delivered me,
but I had not glorified him; as much as to fay, I had
not own'd and been thanksul for that as a deliver-
ance, and how could I expect a greater? So much
did this sensibly touch my heart, that I gave God
thanks for my recovery from sickness in the most
humble prostration.
July .4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Tejlament, resolving to
read a chapter every morning and night, as long as
my thoughts would engage me : But when soon after
I set about this work seriously, I found my heart
deeply affected with the impiety of my past life:
i These
C 5i I
These words that I thought were spoken to me in my
dream revived, AU these things have not brought thee
to repentance: After this, I begged of God to assist
me with his holy spirit in returning to my duty,
when perusing the scriptures one day, I came to
these words, He has exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance, and to give remission: Immediately
I laid down the book, and with up-lifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried, O bkjfed Jesus, thou Son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Savioicr, give
me repentance! And now indeed I prayed with a true
fense of my condition, and a more certain hope
founded on the word of God: Now I had a different
sense of these words, Call on me, and I will deliver
you; that is, from the dreadsul load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinsul foul; and not from a solitary life,
which might rather be called a blessing (seeingI want-
ed neither food nor raiment) than living among the
race of human-kind, surrounded with so much op-
pression, misery and asfliction: And, in a word, I
came to this conclusion, That a deliverance from
sin, was a much greater blessing than a deliverance
from affliction. But again 1 proceed to my journal.
To the 24th of July, I walk'd about with my gun,
a little and a little at a time, having been reduced to
the greatest extremity of weakness. The applica-
tion and experiment I used were perfectly new; nei-
ther could I recommend it to any one's practice.
For though it carried off the fit, it very much
weakened me^ and I had frequently convulsions in
my nerves and limbs. for some time. From hence I
learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health. In
this island I had been about ten months, never all the
while having seen anyxhuman-kind, and so account-
ed myself as sole monarch; and, as I grew better,
having secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
E 2 to
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey. I sirst
.went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore; and travelling farther, found the tide going
no higher than two miles up, where there was a little
brook of running water, on the banks of which were
many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth,
and covered with grass: On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk:
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtues of
which I did not understand. But a long time I
searched for the cassava root, which I knew the In-
dians in that climate made their bread of, but all in
vain. There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time I knew not what they were: Likewise 1 saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect, for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the same
way, and farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perceived different fruits, which lay in very great
abundance. Tha melons in plenty lay on the
ground; and clusters of grapss, ripe and very rich,
spread over the trees. You may imagine I was glad
of this discovery,.yet eat very sparingly, lest i should
throw myself into a flux or fever. As fc.r the grapes,
I found them of excellent use; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried rai-
sins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nourish-
ing, and served me in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and flept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I had lain out of my habitation. And when
the morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure.
'on
on my way, travelling about four miles, as I ima-
gined, by the length of the valley, directing my
course northward, there being a ridge of hills on the
south and north side of me. At the end of this val-
ley I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west: There I found a little spring'
of fresh water proceeding out of the side of a hill,
with its chrystal streams running directly east. And
indeed here my fenses were charmed with the most
lovely object nature could afford; for' the country
appeared so flourishing, green and delightsul, that to
me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descended
on the side of that delicious vale, when I found a-
bundance of cocoa, orange, lemon and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time. As for the
juice of which I afterwards used to mix in water,
which made it very cool and refreshing. And now
I was resolved to carry home and lay up a store of
grapes, limes, and lemons against the approaching
wet season: So laying them .up in separate parcels,
and then taking a few of each with me, I returned
to my little castle, after having spent three days in
this journey: But before I got home, the grapes
were so bruised that they were utterly spoiled, the
limes indeed were good, but few could i bring away..
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprize found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten j which made me to conclude there were wild
creatures thereabouts. To remedy this, I gather'd
ajarge quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out^branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the sun.: and. having well loaded myself
with limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.
And now it was, that contemplating on the fruit-
fulness of the valley, thepleasantness of theikuation,
E' 3 the
the security from storms on that side the water, and
the delightsulness of an adjacent wood; i concluded
I was settled in the worst part of the country, and
therefore was thinking to remove my habitation. But
when I considered again, that though it was pleasant,
it was not by the sea-side, where there was a possibili-
ty, some time or other, a ship might either be driven
to, or sail by that coast; and that to enclose myself
among hills and woods, must certainly frustrate all
hopes of a deliverance; I resolved to let my castle
remain where Providence had first assigned it. Yet
so ravished was I with this place, that I made me a
little kind of bower, surrounding it at a distance
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and filled with bull-rushes, and having spent
a great part of the month of jfufy, I think it was the
first of Augujt before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raisins of the sun; the most of which I carried to
my cave; and happy for me I did so, by which I
saved the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. It began to rain this day ; and though I
had made me a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to"
my old castle. Still the rain continued more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave
for several days. This season 1 found my family to
encrease; for one of my cats that ran away from me,
and whom I thought had been dead, returned about
Augujl with three kittens at her heels, like herself,
which 1 thought strange, because both my cats were
females, and the wild cats of the island seemed to be
es a different kind from our European cats; but from
these cats proceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced
t 55 1
to kill and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not'stir out, it
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which
I shot a goat, and after found a very large tortoise.
The manner of regulating my food was thus: A
bunch of raisins served me for breakfast; a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner; and two
or three turtle's eggs for my supper. While the rain
lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at enlar-
ging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards
one side till 1 came to the outside of the hill, and
made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to fee myself
thus exposed, though I could not perceive any thing
tb fear, a goat being the biggest creature I had seen
upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anni-
versary of my landing; and therefore humbly pro-
strating myself on the ground, confessing my sins,
acknowledging.God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Chrijlxa have mercy on. me, I
fasted for twelve hours tillthe going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my night's
repose. Till this time, having.no fense of religion,
I never distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now i
made a longer notch than ordinary for the days of
re/1, and divided the weeks as well as I could, tho'
1 found I had lost a day or two in my account'. Soon
after, my ink failing, 1 omitted a daily memoran-
dum of indifferent things, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
gular to me, and experience taught me how to pro-
-" vide
.. . r 56 i \
Vide for them; yet, in one thing I am going to re-
late, my experience very much failed me. You may
call to mind what 1 have mentioned of some bar-
ley and rice which I had saved; about thirty stalks
of the former, and twenty of the latter; and at that
time the sun being in its southern position going from
me together with the rains, made me conclude it a
very proper season to sow it. Accordingly i dug up
a piece of ground with my wooden spade, and divi-
ding it in two parts, sowed about two-thirds of my
feed, preserving by me about a handsul of each. And
happy it was > did so, for no rains falling, it was
choaked up, and never appeared above the earth till
the wet season came again, and then it grew as if it
had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my bower,
there 1 sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox, which having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. Part of
the seed i had yet saved, not daring to venture all;
and my crop amounted to above half a peck of each
sort. But by this time I found the proper seasons to
sow in; and that two seed-times and two harvests t
might expect every year.
No sooner were the rains over, and the stakes,
which i had cut from the trees, shooting like willow
trees the first year after lopping their heads, than I
was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they
grew so regularly beautisul, that they made a most
lovely appearance, and flourished so in three years
time, that 1 resolved to cut some more, and these
soon growing made a glorious fence, as in order I
shall observe.
And now s perceived that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer and win-
. ter,
ter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,
in .this manner:
Half February, ~l
Mar eh, > Rainy, sun coming near the equinox.
Half April, 3
Half April,
May,
June, J. Dry, sun getting north of the lint,
Jub>
Half August,
f*
y>
Half August, 1
Septem6er, ( Wet, the sun being then come bach.
Half October, 3
Half October.
November.
her,
December, 'Dry, sun running south of the lint.
January.
Fei
Half February,
As the winds happened to blow, so the wet seasons
would continue longer or shorter: But when I found
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care before-hand to furnish myself with provi-
sions; and during the wet months fat within doors
as much as poflible: And in this time I contrived
to make many things that I wanted, though it was
with much labour and pains before i could accom-
plish them. The sirst I tried was to make a basket;
but all the twigs 1 could get, proved so brittle, that
I could not then perform it. But now it proved of
excellent advantage to me, that when a boy, I took
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the
fame town where my father lived, to view them at
work, and like other boys curious to fee the man-
ner of their working these things, and very osficious
to assist, I perfectly.learned the method of it, and
wanted nothing but the tools. And then it came
in
into my mind, that the twigs of that tree of which I
made my stakes might be as tough as sallow, willow,
and osiers, growing in England; and so resolving to
make an experiment, I went the next day to my
country feat, and found some sit for my turn; and
cutting down numbers with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and when fit to work with, carried
them to my cave, where 1 employed myself in ma-
king several sorts of baskets, to put in whatsoever !.
pleased: It is true, they were not cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things; I had ne-
ver a calk to hold my liquor, except two rumlets al-
most sull of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size,
and some square case bottles: Neither had I a pot to>
boil any thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to make
broth or stew a bit of meat. After this, I wanted
a tobacco pipe; for which last I found an expedient,
I kept myself employed in planting my second row
of stakes, and worked in this wicker the dry season.
You may remember before, that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island;
accordingly, taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two bis-
cuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual,' I began my
journey. And having passed the vale where my bower
stor d, I came within view of the sea, lying to the west,
when it being a clear day, I fairly descried land, but
could not say whether it was an island or a continent:
It extended from the W. to the W. S. W. about ten
or fifteen leagues, as I concluded. Neither could I
tell what place this might be, only thought it was
part of America, and where 1 might have been in a mi-
serable condition had ; landed. Again, 1 considered,
that if this was the Spanijh coast, certainly one time or
other j should fee some ship pass by; and if it was not,
then it must be the savage coast, between the Spanijh
. . .'. country
country and Brasil, which abound with cannibals or
man-eaters that devour human-kind.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine, the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grass,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great disficulty that
I could knock it down with my stick; and it was
some years I kept him at home, before I could get
him to call me by my name.'
In the low grounds I found various forts of hares
and foxes as I thought them, but much different from
all I had met with: Several of these I killed, but
never eat them; neither indeed had I any occasion,
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
I could defy Leadenhall market to surnish me a better
table. In this journey I did not travel above two
miles in a day, because I took several turns and
windings, to fee what discoveries I could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I designed
to rest all night, which was either in a tree, or in a
place which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild
creature might suddenly surprize me. When I came
to the sea-shore, I was amazed to fee the splendour
of it: Its strand was covered with shells of the most
beautisul fish, and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called Penguins. I might
have shot as many as I pleased, but was sparing of
my ammunition, rather chusing to kill a she-goat,
which with much disficulty I did, because of the
flatness of the country.
Now though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so natural to
me, that I did not repine at my being seated on the
worst part of the island: And so travelling about 12
miles towards the Eajt, I set a great pile on the
shore
ihore for a mark, concluding that my next journey
should be on the other side of the island east from my
castle, and so round till I came te my post again.
Howeyer, I took another way back, thinking I could
not miss by having a constant view of the country;
but scarce had I travelled three miles, when I de-
scended into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills that were covered with wood, that I had no guide
but by the sun, nor even then, unless I knew well
the position of the sun at that time of the day. What
added to my misfortune was, the weather proved so
hazy, for three or four days, as to oblige me to return
to my post by the sea-side; and so backwards the
fame way I came. My dog surprized a kid in this
journey, and would have killed it, had I not pre-
vented him. I had often been musing whether!
could not get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats to supply me after my ammunition was
spent. Upon which I made a collar for this little
creature with a string made of rope-yarn which I al-
ways carried about with me; and when I came to my
bower, there I inclosed and left him, and after a
month's time in this journey I came home to my old
habitation. • .
Nobody can suppose otherwise, but that I had
a.pleasing satisfaction, when 1 returned to my little
castle, and reposed myself in my hammock. After
this journey, I rested myself a week, and the prin-
cipal concern 1 then had was to make a cage for my
pretty poll. And then I began to consider the poor
kid 1 had left at my bower; and immediately I went
to fetch it home. When I came there, I found the
young creature almost starved; when feeding it with
branches of such shrubs as I could find, I tied it as
before; but there was no occasion, for it followed me
like a dog, and as I constantly fed it, became so lo-
ving, gentle and fond, that it commenced one of my
domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn mannef as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies; in giving him thanks
for making this solitary life as agreeable, and less
sinsul, than that of human society; and for the com-
munications of his" grace to my soul, supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Before I considered how happy I was in this state
of life towards that accursed manner of living I for-
merly used, while either I was hunting or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would break out
upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would sink
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the desarts I was in; and how I was a prisoner locked
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in
an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes and with-
out redemption. And in this condition, I would
often wring my hands and weep like a child: Even
in the middle of my work this sit would take me;
and then 1 would immediately sit down and sigh,
looking on the ground for an hour or two together,
till such time as my grief would be vented, by burst-
ing out into melting tears.
As one morning I was sadly pondering in my
mind, I opened my Bible, when immediately I sixed
my eyes upon these words, / will never leave thee nor
forsake the/! Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me; or else, why should they appear just at
a moment when 1 am bemoaning my forlorn condi-
tion? And if God does not forsake me, what matters
it, since he can make me more happy in thisj"state of
life than if I enjoyed the greatest splendour in the
world? But while I was going to return God
thanks for my present state, something seemed to
lhock my mind^ as if it had thus said, Unworthy
^ F wretch I
. t 6i ]
-wretch'! can you pretend to be thanksul for a costi
dition, from which you would pray to be delivered?
Here I stopt and though 1 could not fay, t
thank'd the Divine Majesty for being there, yet I
gave God thanks for placing to my view my former
wicked course of life, and granting me a true know-
ledge of repentance: And whenever I opened or shut
the Bible, I blest kind Providence that directed my
goods without my order, and for assisting me to save
it from the power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: First, My duty to
heaven, and diligently reading the Holy Scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly,
Seeking provision with my gun, which commonly
took me up when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preser-
ving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply, which took me up a great part of the
day: and in the middle of the day, the sun being in
its heighth, it was so hot that I could not stir out;
so that i had but four hours to work in: And then
my want of tools, help, and skill, wasted a great.
deal of time; for I was two and forty days making
a board fit for a long shelf, whereas two sawyers,
with'their tools and saw-pit, would have cut several
out of the same tree in half a day; but this was the
cafe, it was to be a large tree, because my board was
to be broad; I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping osf the boughs, and redu-
cina; it to a piece of timber; this I hack'd and luw'd
off each side till it became light to move; then I
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end, then turned it downward,
cutting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue
in
in such a piece work; but this I went through;
with patience, as also many other things that my
circumstances made necessary for me to do^
But now came my harvest months, November and
December, in which I had the pleasing prospect of
a very good crop: But such was my misfortune, that
the goats and hares having once tasted of the sweet-
ness of the blade, kept it so short, that it had not
strength to shoot up into a stalk .: To prevent which,
I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot seme of
its devourers; and my dog, which 1 had tied to the
field gate, keeping barking all night, frightened the
creatures away.
; No sooner did I get rid of these, but other ene-
mies appeared, whole flocks of several sorts of birds,
who only waited till my back was turned to ruin me.
So much did this provoke me, that I let fly, and
killed three of the malefactors; £nd afterwards served
them as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror toothers. And indeed
so good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long aS
these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest . of the year,
I reaped it with a scythe made of one of my broad
swords. I had no great fatigue in cutting down my
first crop, it was so slender; the ears of which £
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with
hands instead of thrashing it; and when my harvest
was over, found my half peck of feed produce near
two bushels of rice, and two bushels and a half of
barley. And now. i plainly foresaw that, by God's
goodness, 1 should be surnistied with bread; but yet
1 was concerned because I knew not how to grind or
make meal of my corn, Hor bread, neither knew how
to bake it. Upon these considerations, I would not
taste any of the crop, but preserve it against the next
F 2 season,
season, and in the'mean while use my best endea-
vours to provide myself with materials to make bread.
But where were my labours to end ?. The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered.by making me a wooden spade made after
>a wooden manner: The want of a harrow, I sup-,
plied myself by dragging over the corn a great bough
«f a tree: When it was growing or sully ripe, I
was forced to fence it, mow it, carry it home, thrash
it, part it from the chaff, and save it: And aster all
this, I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it,
yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to
bake it. This set my brains on work to sind some
expedient, for every.one of these necessaries, against
the next harvest.
And now, having more feed, my first care was to
prepare me more land. I pitched upon two large
flat pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose,
in which I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge, which took me up three months time, by
which it was the wet season. While the rain kept
me within doors, I found several occasions to em-
ploy myself; and while at work, used to divert my-
self with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name, POLL, the sirst welcome
word I ever heard spoke on the island.. I had been a
long time contriving how to make earthen vessels,
which I wanted extremely; and when I considered
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could
find any proper clay, i might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile to see what
aukward ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things
I made; how many either fell out or crack'd by the
violtnt heat of the sun, and fell in pieces when they
were
Hvere removed: So that I think it was two months
time before I could perfect any thing, and after this
great fatigue, made two clumsy things in imitation
of earthen jars. These however i very gently placed
in wicker baskets, made on purpose for them, and
between the pot and the baskets, stuffed it sull of
rice and barley straw; and these I presumed would
hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal when the
corn was bruised. But as for smaller things, I made
them with better success, which the sun baked very
hard, such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins.
Yet still I wanted one thing .absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any
liquid thing, but to bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It once happened, that as I was
putting out my fire, I found therein a broken piece
of one of my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as
a tile. This made me contrive .how to order my fire,
as to make it burn some pots; and having no notion
of a kiln,. or of glazing them with lead, I sixed three
large pipkins, and two or. three pots in a pile one
upon another. The fire I plied round the outside .
With dry wood, and on the top, till I saw the pots .
in the inside red hot, and found that they did not.
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly
red, I let one of them stand in the fire about five or .
fix hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of"
the heat, and would have run to glass, had 1 suffered
it; upon which I slacked my fire by.degrees, till.
the redness abated; and watching them till the
morning, I found I had three very good pipkins,
and two earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my
turn as I could defire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this disco-
Very: For after this, I may fay, I wanted. for no
fort of earthen-ware. 1 filled one of my pipkins with
Water to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
Fj. . well,
well, and with a piece of kid I made me some good
. broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time.
The next concern I had was to make me a stone^
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
grind it. Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not
being fit for a stone-cutter; and many days I spent
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow
and make fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear
the weight of a pestle, as would break the corn
without filling it with sand: But all the stones of the
island being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless, and then 1 resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood; which having soon found,
I formed with my axe and hammer, and then with
infinite labour made a hollow place in it, just as the
Indians of Brafil make their canoes. When I had
finished this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood,
which I had formerly laid up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal, and part it from the bran and the husk.
Having no fine thin canvas to search the meal thro',
I could not tell what to do; what linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goat's hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin
it: At length I remembered I had some neckcloths
of callicoe or muslin of the sailors, which I had
brought out of the ship, and with these I made three
small sieves, proper enough for the work.
And now I come to consider the baking part in
course. The want of an oven I supplied by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep. When
. I had a mind to bake, I made a great fire upon my
hearth, the tiles of which I had made myself, and
when the wood was burnt into live coals, I spread
|hcm all over it, till it*became very hot, then sweep-
ing them away, I set down my loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pots upon them, drew the
ashes and coals all around the outside of the pots to
continue the heat; and in this manner I used to
bake my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry-cook, making myself of the rice seve-
ral cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
I had was bestowed in managing my new harvest and
husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed my corn increased
fo much that it produced me about twenty bushels
of bailey, and as much of rice, that 1 not only be-
gan to use it freely, but was thinking how to en-
large my barns, and was resolved to sow so much at
a time as would be sufficient for me a whole year.
All this while the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this
place, though the fear of greater misfortunes might
have deterred me from it: For after I had attained
that place, I run the hazard of being killed and
eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they were
not so, yet i might be slain, as other Europeans had
been who fell into their hartiis. Notwithstanding
all this, my thoughts ran continually upon my ac-
quiring that shore: And now I wanted my boy Xury^
and the long boat, with the shoulder of mutton
(ail. Then I went to the ship's boat that had been
cast a great way on the shore in the late storm. She
was but a little removed: but her bottom was turn-
ed up by the impetuosity and sury of the waves
and wind. With' all the.strength I had, I tried
whatever I could do, with levers and rollers I had
cut
mages she had sustained. This work took me up
three or four weeks, when finding my little strength
all in vain, I fell to undermine it by digging away
the sand, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it in the fall. But after
this was done, unable was I to stir it up again, or to
get under it", much less to move it forwards to-
wards the water, and so I was forced to give it over.
Not contented with this disappointment, I began
to think whether it was not possible for me to make a
Canoe or periagua, such as the Indians make of the
trunk of a tree; but here I lay under particular
inconveniencies, want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it to the water when it was
made. However, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the enquiries I could make, with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it, I'll
warrant I'll find some way or other to get it along
when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end
of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a
space, and then parted into branches. Twenty
days was I hacking and hewing this tree at the
bottom, fourteen more in cutting off the branches
and limbs, and a whole month in shaping it like
the bottom of a boat; as for the inside, I was three
weeks, with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such
a manner as that it was big enough to carry twenty-
fix men, much bigger than ever a canoe I saw in
my life, and consequently sufficient to transport me
and all my effects to that wished for shore I so ar-
dently desired.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about 100

yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill" between this boat and the
creek, with wondersul pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insufficient to move it, as it was when I attempted
to move the boat. Then I proceeded to measure
the distance of ground, resolving to make a canal, in
order to bring the water to the canoe, since I could
not bring the canoe to the water. But as this seemed
to be impracticable to myself alone, under the space
of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some
fort of consideration, that I concluded it impossible
to be done, and so this attempt was in vain also.
And now I saw, and not before, what stupidity it
is to begin a work before we reckon its costs, or
judge right of our own abilities to go through with
its performance. i
Jt was in the heighth of this work, my fourth.
year expired, since 1 was cast on this island; and
then 1 did not forget my anniversary, but kept it
with the same ardent devotion 1 had done before.
But now, my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon
this world as a thing I had nothing to do with; and
very well might I fay, as father Abraham unto Dives,
Between me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And in-
deed from the world I was separated from its wick-
edness too, having neither the lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, or the pride of life; 1 had nothing
to covet, being lord, king, or emperor over the
whole country 1 had in possession, without dispute,
and without controul; i had loadings of corn,
plenty of turtles, timber in abundance, and grapes
above measure; but after I was served, what was
all the rest to me? The money 1 had by me lay as
despicable dross, which I would freely have given
for a gross of tobacco=.pipes, cr a hand-mill to grind
my corn.: In a word, the nature and experience of
t 7& J .
these things dictated to me this just reflection, That
the good things of this world are no farther good to
us than they are for our use; and that whatever we
j may heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as
/ much as we use and no more. . . .
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to eat I did it with
thanksulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
that in this wilderness had spread this table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted; compared my present condition
with what I at first expected it should be; how I
should have done, if I had got nothing out of the
(hip; that I must have perished before 1 had caught
sish. or turtles; or lived, had I found them, like a
mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling them
in pieces with my claws, like a beast. I next com-
pared my station to that which I deserved; how un-
dutisul had been to my parents, how destitute of the
fear of God ; howivoid of every thing that was good;
and how ungratesul for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great Elijah's being fed by ravens;
and cast On a place where there was no venemous
creature to poison or devour me: In short, ma-
king God's tender mercies matter of great consola-.
tion, I relinquished all sadness, and gave way to
contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with water
I made last as long as 1 could, \ used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened. And,
First, i observed, That the same day I forsook my
parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken ana made a slave by the Sallee
rover.
The
day, I made my escape from Sallee, in my patron's
The 30th of September, being the day of the year
was I miraculously saved, and cast on shore on this
Island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink was the
biscuit which i had brought out of the ship: And
though I allowed myself but one cake a-day, for a-
bove a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread
for near a year, before i got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before; however, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors chec-
quered shirts, which proved a great refreshment to
me, when the violent beams of the sun would not
suffer me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-
coats, which made me turn taylor, and after a mi-
serable botching manner, convert them into jackets.
To preserve my head, I made me a cap of goat-
Ikift, with the hair outwards, to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that I afterwards
made me a waistcoat and open-knee'd breeches of
the fame: And then I contrived a . fort of an um-
brella, covering it with sleins, which not only kept
out the heat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus
being easy and settled in my mind, my chiefest hap-
piness was to converse with God, in most heavenly
and comfortable ejaculations.
For five years after this. I cannot fay any extraor-
dinary thing occurred to me. My chief employ-
ment was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and
rice, of both which I had a year's provision before-
hand. But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it, atintermediate times, my business
to make a second, of much inferior size; and it was two

twenty-six years after,
years
years before I finished it. . But as I perceived it would
no ways answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to fee what surther discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having'moved
her to the water, and tried how she would fail, I
fitted up a little mast to her, and made a fail of the
ship's fail that lay by me. I then made lockers
or boxes, at the end of it, to put in necessary provi-
sions and ammunition, which would preserve them dry
either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and in the
inside of the boat I cut a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a flag to hang over
it; .my umbrella I sixed in a step in the stern like
a mast to keep the heat of the sun off me: And
now, resolving to see the circumference of my lit-
tle kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage,
putting in two dozen of my barley bread loaves,
an earthen pot sull of parched rice, a little bottle of
rum, half a goat, powder and shot, and two watch-
coats. It was the 6th of November, in the 6th year
of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in this
voyage, which was much longer than I expected,
being obliged to put surther out, by reason of the
rocks that lay a great way in the sea: And indeed
so much did .these rocks surprise me, that I was for
putting back, fearing, that if I ventured surther, it
would be out of my power to return. In this con-
susion I came to an anchor just off shore, to which
I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and then,
climbing up an hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the sull extent of it, and resolved to run all
hazard.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a vio-"
lent current running to the cast, coming very close
to the point; which 1 the more caresully observed,
thinking it dangerous, and that, when I came to it,
I mi^ht be drove into the sea by its force, and not able
C 73 3:
to return to the island; and certainly it must hate
been so, had I not made this observation; for on the
other side was the like current, with this difference,
that it set off at a greater distance; when I perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land, so that my
chiefest business was to work out of the first current,
and conveniently get into an eddy. Two days'I
staid here, the wind blowing very briskly E. S. E.
which being contrary to the current, leaves a great
breach on the sea upon the point; so it was not fit
for me to keep too near the shore, upon account of
the breach ; nor to stand at too great a distance, for
fear of the streams. That night the wind abating,
it grew so calm that.I ventured out; but surely
I was to be a memento to all rash and ignorant pi-
lots: For I was no sooner come to the point, and
not above the boat's length from the shore, but I
was got into a deep water, with a current like a mill,
which drove my boat along so violently that it was
impossible for me to keep her so much as to the edge
of it; but it forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of me, stnd all I could do with my
paddles was useless, there being no wind to help me.
Alas! now I began to think myself quite lost;
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island,
I was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea,
after what provisions I had was spent, or before, if
a storm should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? With longing eyes did I
look upon my little kingdom, and thought the island
the pleasentest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desart, said I, shall I never see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did
I murmur at my' lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be there again?
While I was thus contemplating, I found my self to be
G driven
£ '74. ]
driven about two leagues into the sea; however, I
laboured till my strength was spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon, I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart the more, when,
in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been lost
another way; for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards the
island, if once it had disappeared; but it proving the
contrary, I set up my mast again, spread my sail,
and stood away northward as much as I could, to get
rid of the current: And no sooner did the boat be-
gin to stretch away, but I perceived,'by the clearness
of the water, a change of the current was near;
for where it was clear, the current abated. To the
east I soon saw, about half a mile, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to sepa-
rate; and as the main force drove away more south-
wardly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the
other came back by the repulse of the rocks, making
a sharp eddy, which returned back again to the north
west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the ladder, or to be saved from thieves
just going to take away their lives, or else such who
have been in the like calamities, may guess my pre-
sent excess of joy; how heartily I run my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and how joysully I spread
my sail to the refreshing wind, standing chearsully
before it with a smart tide under foot. By the as-
sistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
honie again, when being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, 1 found the water to be
at a sort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon
[ 75 I s
noon I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock, which caused this
disaster, stretching out as I observed before, to the
southward, which throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasioned another eddy to the
north. But having a fair brisk gale, I stretched a-
crose this eddy, and in.air hour came within a mile
of the shore, where I soon landed, to my' unspeak-
able comfort; And after an humble prostration,
thanking God for my deliverance, with a resolution
to leave all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my
boat sase into a little cove, and laid me down to take.
a welcome repose. When I awoke, I was consider-
ing how I might get my boat home; and' coasting
along the . shore, 1 came to a good bay, which ran
. up to a rivulet or brook, where finding a safe har-
bour, I stowed her as fase as if she had been in a^
dry dock made on purpose for her.
And now I perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; when. taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, 1
began my journey, and in the evening came to my
bower, where I again laid me down to rest. But it
was not long before I was awakened in great surprise
by a strange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, Poor Robin! Where are yotix
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where'have you beenf
So fast was I asleep at first, that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought 1 dreamt that somebody spoke to me. But as
the voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times, be-
ing terribly affrighted, I started up" in the utmost
consusion5 when no sooner were my eyes sully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me y
for just in such bewailing language I used to talk and
teach him, which he so exactly learned, that he would
sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face,
G 2 and
and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? Wlure.
have you heen P How came you here? And such like
prattle as I had constantly taught him. But as t
knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while before
I could adjust myself; first, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and that he should six about
that place, and no where else. When" I was assured
it could be no other than my honest Poll, my won-
der ceased; so reaching out my hand, and calling
familiarly, Poll, the creature came to me, 2nd
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and How
did I come here? and Where had I been? As if the
bird was overjoyed to fee me; and so I took him home
along with me. Tr
Now though I was pretty well cured of my ram-
bling to sea again, yet I could wish my boat, which
. had cost me so much trouble and pains, on this side
the island once more, which indeed was impractica-
ble. 'And so I led a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth, in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. . As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, I fan-
cied 1 could, upon occasion, make a tolerable car-
penter were the tools I had to work withal but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I con-
trived to make them with a wheel, which I found
much easier and better; making my work shapable,
which before was rude and ugly. But I think I was
never so elevated with my own performance or pro-
ject as for being able to make a tobacco-pipe; which
though it proved an aukward, clumsy thing, yet it
was very sound, and carried the fmoak perfectly
well, to my great satisfaction.
Also I improved my wicker-ware, makings me a-
bundance of necessary baskets, which though not very
handsome, vere very handy and convenient to fetch
things.
things home in, as also for holding my stores, bar-
ley, rice, and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and fee if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, bated with barley and rice, I found
one morning in one of them an old he-goat, and in
the other three kids, one male, the other two fe-'
males."
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But 1 forgot the proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given him
some water, with a little corn, he would'havc been
as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together, but I had great disficulty be-
fore I could bring them to my habitation. It was
some time before they would feed, when throwing
them some corn, it so much tempted them, that they
began to be tame; from hence I "concluded, that if
I designed to surnish myself with goats flesh, when
my ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them
up like a flock of sheep about my settlement, was the
only method I could take. I concluded also I must
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground/
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep theft*
so effectually, that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking.
was very great for one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my sirst care'
was to find a convenient piece of ground where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. ; .
G 3 But
But here I began madly, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I enclosed it with
infinite pains, this hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles about. indeed had it been ten miles
I had time enough to do it in; but then I did not
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole Island, and
consequently as difficult for me to catch them. And
this thought came into my head, after I had carried
on, I believe, about fifty yards; when I resolved to
enclose a piece of ground 150 yards in length, and
100 in breadth, sufficient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock en-
creased, and then I could add more ground. Upon
which, I vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took
me about three months in hedging the sirst piece; in
which time I tethered the three kids in the best part
of it, feeding them as near me as possible to make
them familiar; and indeed very often would I carry
some ears of barley, or a handsul of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which means they grew
so Came, that when my enclosure was finished, and I
had let them loose, they would run after me for an
handsul of corn. This indeed answered my end;
and in a year and a half's time I had a flock of about
twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years after,
they amounted to three and forty, besides what I had
taken and killed for my sustenance. After this, I
enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with penns to drive them into, that I might take
them as I had occasions: i .
But still I had additional blessings, not only in
having plenty of goats flesh, but milk too, which in
my beginning I did not so much as think of: And
indeed, though 1 had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter cheese made, yet after some
essays and miscarriages I made me both, and neves
afterwards wanted. i. .
How
'
How mercisully can the omnipotent power com-
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities: How can he sweeten the bitterest Provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons! what a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, when I expected no-
thing at first but to perish with hunger.
Certainly a stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner; there was my royal Majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
my dutisul subjects, w.hom, if I pleased, I could eir
ther hang, draw, quarter, give liberty, or take it
away. When I dined, i seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring to presume to do so till 1 had done. Poll^
as if he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, con-
tinually fat at my right hand ; while my two cats
fat on each side of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. Yet
these were not the cats I had brought from the
ship; they had been dead long before, and interred
near my habitation by mine own hand: But one of
them, as I suppose, generating with a wild cat, these
were the couple I had made tame; whereas the rest
run into the woods, and grew so impudent as tore-
turn and plunder me of my stores, till such time as I
shot a great many, and the rest lest me with this at-
tendance.. in this very plentisul manner. did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing more indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat. I knew not which way to get her round the
ifland. I resolved one time to go along the shore by
land to her; but had any one in England met such a
sigure, it would either.affright them, or make them
burst into laughter; Nay, myself could not but senile
at
at my habit, which I think, in this place, it is very
proper to describe.
The cap I had upon my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat-skin, with a flap or pent-
house hanging down behind, not only to keep the
son from me, but to shoot the rain osf from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the flesh in these parts. I had
a short jacket of goat-skin, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that it reached down to
the caves of my legs. As for shoes and stockings I
had none, but made a resemblance of something, I
know not what to call them; they were made like
buskins, and laced on the sides like spatterdashers,
barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit. I had
on me a broad belt of goat-skin dried, girt round
with a couple of thongs instead of buckles ; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and
dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another
belt, not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made also of
foat-skin, to hold my powder and shot. My basket
carried on'my back, and my gun on my shoulder,
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat-skirt
umbrella, which, however, next my gun, was the
most necessary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not so swarthy as the molattas, as might
be expected from such a person as I, who took so
little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten de-
grees from the equinox. At one time my beard grew
so song, that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as I had both razors and scissars in store,
I cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Settee, not long
enough to hang a hat upon, but of such a mon-
strous
. .1 .
i t 81 }
strous size, is would have amazed any in England to>
Have seen.
i But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit. And
so without fear, and without oontroul, I proceeded
on my journey, the prosecution of which took me up
five or six days. I first travelled along the sea-shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat
to an anchor, to get upon the rocks. But now ha-
ving no boat to take care of, I went over th* land a
nearer way, to the fame heighth that I wa6 before
upon; when looking forward to the point of the
rock which lay out, and which I was forced to dou-
ble with my boat, I was amazed to "fee the sea <b
smooth and quiet, there being no ripling, motion, or
current, any more than in other places: Which
made me indeed ponder some time to imagine the
reason of it, when at last I was convinced how it was,
which was this; the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the currents of waters from some great
rivers on the shore, must be the occasion of these ra-
pid streams; and that consequently as the winds blew
more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the current
came the nearer, or went the surther from shore. To
satisfy my curiosity, I waited there till evening, when
the tide of ebb being made, from the rock I plainly
perceived the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther off, near half a league from
the shore ; whereas in my condition, it set quite upon
it, suriously hurrying me and my canoe along with
it, which at another time it would not have done.
And now I was convinced that, by observing the
ebbing and slowing of the tide, I might easily bring
my boat round the island again: But when I began to
think of puttingitin practice, the remembrance of the
late danger I was in struck me with such horror, that
I changed my resolution, which wa& more safe, tho'
more
t.82 ]
more laborious; and this was to make another canoe,
and so have one for one fide of the island, and One
(ot the other.
Here I think it very proper to inform my readers,
that I had two plantations in thq island; the first was
my little fortification, fort, or castle, with" many
large and spacious improvements: For by this time
I had enlarged. the cave behind me with several little
caves, one within another, to .hold my baskets,
corn and straw. The piles with which I made my
wall were grown so lofty and great, as obscured my
habitation: And near this commodious and pleasant
settlement lay my two well cultivated and improved
corn fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in.'
the proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country feat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where, havnig planted many
stakes, I made enclosures for my goats, so strongly1
fortified by labour and time, that. it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossible
for them to break through. As for my bower itself,
I kept it constantly in repair, and cut the trees in
such a manner as made them grow thick and wild,;
and form the most delightsul shade. . In the center
of this stood my tent, thus erected: I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over them a piece of
the ship's fail; beneath which I made me a sort of a
couch with the skins of the creatures I had slain,
and other things ; and having laid thereon one of the
sailors blankets, which I had saved from the wreck
of the ship, and covering myself with a great watch-
coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
sometimes I would venture. in her a cast or two from
shore, but no farther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accidents.
should hurry me from the island as before. But now
I entreat your attention, while I proceed to inform
you of a new but moll surprising scene of life,
wherein I was acting again in a stranger manner.
You may suppose that, after I had been here so
long, nothing could have been more amazing than to
have seen a human creature. But one day it hap-
pened that, going to my boat, I saw the print of a
man's naked foot on the more, very evident on the
sand, as the toes, heel, and every part of it. Had
I seen an apparition, in the most frightsul manner, I
could not have been more confounded : My willing
cars gave the strictest attention. I cast my eyes a-
round, But neither could satisfy the one or the other.
When I proceeded alternately to every part of the
shore, still it was all as one; neither could I fee any
other mark, though the sand about it was as suscepti-
ble to take impression as that which was so plainly
stampt. Thus, struck with consusion and horror, I
.returned to my habitation, frightened at every bush
and tree, as taking them for men; and, being pos-
sessed with the wildest ideas, got over I cannot tell
how. But that night my eyes never closed, though
farther from danger, when even then I formed nothing
but the most dismal imaginations, thinking it must be
the mark of the Devil's foot which I had seen: For
otherwise how could any mortal body come to this
Island? And if so, where was the ship that transport-
ed them? And what signs of any other footsteps?
Though these seemed very strong reasons for such a
supposition, yet (thought 1) why should the Devil
make the print of his foot to no purpose, as I can fee,
when he might have taken other ways to have terri-
fied me ? Why should he leave his mark on the other
fide of the island, and that too on the sand, where
the surging waves of the ocean might soon have
erased the impression. Surely this action is not con-
sistant with the subtlety of SATAN, said I to my-
self; but rather must be some dangerous creature,
some
[ 8"4 ) . .
1
some wild savage of thefrnain~land over against me,
that, venturing too far in the ocean, was driven here
either by the violent currents or contrary winds;
and so not cariitg to stay on this desolate Island, was
gone back to sea again.
Happy was I in my thoughts that no savages had
seen me in that place, yet much terrified, lest, having
found my boat, they should return in numbers and
destroy me, or at least carry away all my corn, and
destroy my flock of tame goats: In a word, all my
religious hopes vanished, as though I thought God
could not protect me by his power, who had so won-
dersully preserved it so long.
What various chains of Providence there are in the
life of man! How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to disferent circumstances? We love to-
day what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour what
we seek the next; and this was evident in me in the
most perspicuous manner; for I, who before had so
much lamented my cbndition, in being banished from
all human kind, was now almost ready to expire, when
I considered that a man had set his foot on this deso-
late Island. But when I considered my station of
life, decreed by the infinitely wise and good Providence
of God; that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that his justice and mercy could either punish or deli-
ver me : I fay when I considered all this, I comfortably
found it my duty to trust sincerely in him, pray ardently
to him, and humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One'morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
chearsully from my bed, I oft'ered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner: And when I had done, ta-
king up my Bible to read, these words appeared first in
my sight: Wait on the Lord, and be os good cheer,
\and he jhall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, as to
remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
i Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and nights, at last I ventured out of
my castle, and milked my goats, one of which was '-
almost spoiled for want of it. I next, though in
great fear) visited my bower, and milked my flocks
there also; when growing bolder, I went down to
the shore again, and measuring the print of the foot
to mine, to see whether, perhaps, 1 myself had not
occasioned that mark, I found it much superior in
largeness; and so I returned home, possessed with
the notion, that either some men had been ashore,
or that the island must be inhabited; and therefore,
that I might be surprised before I was aware.
Struck with a second and more terrible fear, seve-
ral thoughts of security came into my mind: And
that night I was first proposing to cut down my en-
closures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the
woods, that the enemy mighr not find them, and
frequent the island in hopes of the fame. Secondly, I
was for digging up my corn fields for the very fame
reason: And, Lastly, I concluded to demolish my
bower, lest, seeing such a place of human contrivance,
they might come farther and attack me in my little
castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest unto
me; and, I looked, 1 thoughf, like the unfortunate
King Saul, when not only oppress'd by the Philistines.
but also forsaken by God himself: And it is strange,
that a little before having entirely resigned myself to
the will of God, I should now have so little consi-
dence in him, fearing those more who might kill
this fading body, than him who could destroy my
immortal soul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night;
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
H pose
.po£e the next morning: and then, joining reason
with my fear, I considered, that this delightsul and
pleasant island might not be entirely forsaken, as I
might think; or that the inhabitants from the other
shore might sail either with design or necessity, by
cross winds; and if the latter circumstance, they de-
parted upon the first opportunity. But still my fear
occasioned me to think of a place for retreat, upon an
attack. I now repented that I had made the door
that came out beyond my fortisication; but resol-
ving to make me a second, I drove between that dou-
ble row of trees, which I planted about 12 years be-
fore, several piles, thickening it with pieces of tim-
ber and old cables, and strengthening the foot of it
with earth which I dug out of my cave. I also made
me seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets like
cannon, sitting them into frames resembling carria-
ges. This being finished with indefatigable industry,
for a great way every way I planted sticks of osier-
like wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving
a large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and that they might not
be sheltered from the young trees, if they offered to
approach the outer wall. And indeed scarce two
years had passed over my head, when there appeared
a lovely shady grove, and in six years it became a
thick wood perfectly impassable. For my safety, I
left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which I set
two ladders; one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, leaving room to place ano-
. ther ladder upon that; so that when I took those
clown, it was impossible for any man to descend without
hurting himself; and if they had, they would still be
at the outside of my outer wall. But while I took
all these measures of human prudence for my own
preservation, I was altogether unmindsul of other
affairs: To preserve my stocks of tame goats, that
the enemy should not take all at once, I looked out
for the most retired part of the island, which was the.
jslace where 1 had lost myself before-mentioned, and
there finding a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick. woods, I worked so
hard, that in less than a month's time I fenced it so
well round, that my flocks were very well secured in
it, putting therein two he-goats and ten she ones.
As this labour was occasioned purely by my fear-
sul apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of/
a man's foot; not contented with what I had done,
I searched for another place towards the west point
of the island, where I might also retain another flock.
Thtn methought I perceived a boat at a great distance
in the sea; but could not possibly tell what it was for
want of njy perspective glass. I considered then itr
was no strange thing to fee the print of a man's foot;
and concluding them cannibals, blessed God for my~
being cast on the other. side of thi island, where none
of the favages,~as I thought, ever came. But when
I came down the hill to the shore, which was the S.W.
point .of the island, I was not only amazed, but
perfectly consirmed in my opinion: For the place
was spread with sculls, hands, feet, and bones of hu-
man bodies; and then I perceived a space like a cir-
cle, in the midst of which had been afire; about thia
sire I conjectured these wretches fat, and unnaturally
sacrificed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadsul
spectacle both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge the violent disorder from my stomach. So
that when I had vomited in a very excessive manner,
I returned towards my habitation; and in my way
thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
No .v though reason and my long residence there
had assured me, that these savages never came up to
H 2 the
the thick woody partrof the country; and that I had
no occasion to discover myself, who was so perfectly
concealed from them; yet such an abhorence did I
still retain, that for two years after I confined myself
only t(> my three plantations; I mean my castle,
country feat, and enclosure in the woods. And
when, in this solitary life, my dreadsul apprehensions
began to wear away, yet my eyes were more vigilant
for fear of being surprized, and I was cautious of
firing my gun, lest, being heard by "those creatures,
they should proceed to attack me; but resolving
mansully to lose my life if they did, I went armed
with three pistols stuck in my girdle, which added.
to the description I have given of myself before, made
me look with a very formidable appearance.
And thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed. When I com-
pared my condition to others, I found it far from.
being miserable: And indeed would all persons com-
pare their circumstances, not with those above them,
but with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, I am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
murings and complainings that are in the world. For
my part, I did not want many things: Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in spoilt some
inventions for my own conveniencies; one.of which
was really very ridiculous, except I could accomplish
it, and happy it was they hindered me from putting
it in practice. My design was to brew me some beer,
when I had neither casks sufficient, nor could make
any, to preserve it in; neither had I hops to make it
keep, yeast to make it work, nor a copper or kettle
t a make it boil. Perhaps indeed, after some years,
I might bring this to bear, as I had done other things:
But now my inventions were placed another way;
and one was, how I might destioy some of these can-
nibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertain-
ments 5 and so saving a victim from being sacrificed,
lie might after became my servant. Many were my
contrivances for this purpose, and as many more ob-
jections occurred after I hatched them: For when I
contrived to dig .a hole under the place where they
made their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of.
gunpowder, which would consequently blow up all
those that were near it; why then I was loth to spend
fo much upon them, lest it mould not do that certain
execution 1 could defire; and but only affright, and
not kill them. Having laid this design aside, 1 pro-
posed to myself to lay privately in ambush, in some
convenient place, with my three guns double loaded,
and let fly at them in the midst of their dreadsul cere-
mony; and having killed two or three of them at
every shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my three
pistols, and not let one mother's son escape. And so
much did this imagination please my fancy, that I used.
to dreafh of it in the night-time. To put my design.
in execution, I was not long seeking for a place very
convenient for my purpose, where, unseen, I might
behold every action of the savages. Here I placed my
two muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace
of flugs, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol-bullets; the fowling-piece was charged
with near a handsul of the largest swan-shot; and ia.
every pistol were about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner would the welcome
light spread over the element, but, like a giant refrejh-
ed with wine, as the Scripture has it, would 1 iliue
forth from my castle, and, from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, view if I could fee any invaders ap-
proach unlawsully to my kingdom. But havings
waited in vain two or three months, it not only grew
very tiresome to me, but brought me into some con-
sideration, and made me examine myself, what right.
I had to kill these creatures in this manner?
~If (argued I to myself) this unnaiun.l custom of.
theirs be a sin offensive to heaven, it belongs to the
H 3 Divine
s go']
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands to shower down vengeance upon them: And
perhaps he does so, in making them become one an-
other's executioners. Or if not, if God thinks these
doings j ust, according to the knowledge which they
conceive, what authority have I to pretend to all the
decrees of Providence, which has permitted these ac-
tions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the be-
ginning of the creation? They never offended me,
what right had I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's blood? And, as I have since
known, they value no more to kill and devour a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat
mutton. From hence it followed, that these people
were no more murderers than Christians, who many
times put whole troops to the sword, after throwing
down their arms. Again I considered, that if I fell
upon them, I should be as much in the wrong as the
Spaniards, who had committed the greatest barbarities
upon these people, who had never offended them in
their whole lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was emi-
nent for a race of men without common compassion
to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a principal
sign of the most generous temper. In a word, I con-
cluded never to attack them, whose numbers might
overpower me;' or that some escaping, might bring
thousands to my certain destruction, not so much as
to shew myself, which might oblige me even to a
necessary duty of defence. And indeed religion took
their part so much as to convince me how contrary
it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding human
blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever they
are to one another; and that I had nothing to do
with it but leave it to theGcd of al] power and domi-
nion, as I said before, to do therein what seemed con-
venient to his heavenly wisdom. And therefore, on
my knee?, I thanked the Almighty for delivering me
from blood-guiltiness, and begged his protection that
.1 might never fall into th::ir hands. Thus,
Thus, giving over an attempt which I had rashly
tegun, 1 never ascended the hill on that occasion af-
terwards; only I 'removed my boat which lay on the
other side of the island, and every thing, such as they
were, that belonged to her, towards the east, into a
little cove, that there might not be the least shadow
of discovery of any boat near, or habitation upon the
island. And then my castle became my cell, keeping
very retired in it, except to milk my she-goats, and
order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure it is, these savages never
came here with expectations to find any thing, and
consequently never wandered from the coast; and as
they might have several times been on shore, as well
before as after my dreadsul apprehensions, i looked
back with horror to think in what a state I might
have been, had i suddenly met them slenderly armed,
with one gun only loaded with small shot: And how
great would have been my amazement, if, instead
of seeing the print of one man's foot I had perceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, there
wss no possibility of my escaping? These'thoughts
would sink my very soul within me, so that I would
fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as the
consideration of my gratitude to the Divine Being
moved it from my heart. And then I fell into a con-
templation of the secret springs of Providence': How
wondersully we are delivered, when we are insensible
of it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or la-
byrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint shall
direct us in the right way, when we intended to go
out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our business,
fense, or inclination. Upon which, i sixed within
me this as a certain rule, never to disobey tliofe secret
impressions of my mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that osfered, for which 1 yet could assign
no reason: But let it be how it will, the advantage of
. this
this conduct very eminently appeared in the latter part
of my abode on this island: i am a stranger in deter-
mining whence these secret intimations of Providence
derive; yet, methinks, they are not only some proofs of
the converse of spirits, but also of the secret commu-
nications they are supposed to have with those that
have not passed through the gloomy vale of death.
As in these many anxieties of mind, the care of
mj preservation put a 'period to all inventions and
contrivances, either for suture accommodations or
conveniencies; so I never cared to drive a nail, chop
a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise
should be heard, or the smoak discover me: And,
upon this account, I used to burn my earthen ware
privately in a cave which I found in the wood, and
which I made convenient for that purpose: But the
principal cause that first brought me here was to
make charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my
bread and meat, without any danger. While I was
cutting down some wood for this purpose, I percei-
ved a cavity behind a very thick branch of under-
wood. Curious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sufficient for me to stand upright in
it. But when I had entered and took a surther view,
two rowling shining eyes, like flaming stars, seemed
to dart themselves at me, so that I made all the haste
out that I could, as not knowing whether it was the
Devil or a monster that had taken his residence in'
that place. But when I recovered from my surprize,
I called myself a thousand fools, for being afraid to
fee the Devil one moment, who had now lived al-
most twenty years in the most retired solitude:
And therefore, resuming all the courage 1 had, I
took up a flaming firebrand, and in 1 rushed again;
when not having proceeded above three steps, I
was more affrighted than before; for then I heard
a very loud sigh, like that of a human creature in.
the greatest agony, succeeded with a broken noise,
resembling
resembling words half expressed, and then a broken
sigh again. Stepping back, Lord! (thought I to
myself) where am I got? Into what enchanted place
have I plunged myself, such as are reported to con-
tain miserable captives, till death puts an end to their
sorrow? And indeed, such a great amazement was I
in, that it struck me with a cold sweat; and had my
Tiat been on my head, I believe my hair would have
moved it osf. But again, encouraging myself with
the hopes of God's protection, I proceeded forward,
and, by the light of my firebrand, perceived it to be
a monstrous he-goat, lying on the ground, gasping
for life, and dying of mere old age. When at first I
stirred him, thinking to drive him out, the poor an-
cient creature strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able; so I e'en let him stay still, to asfright the sava-
ges, should they venture into this cave. In the mean
time, I looked round me, and found the place but
small and shapeless: At the surther side of it I per-
ceived a fort of an entrance, yet so low as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it;
when, having no candle, I suspended my enterprize
till the next day, and then 1 came provided with six
large ones of my own making.
When, upon my hands and feet I had crept thro'
the straight, I found the roof rose higher up, i think,
about twenty feet: But surely never mortal saw such
a glorious sight in this island before! The roof and
walls of this cave reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles, as though they were
indented in with shining gold, precious stones, or
sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightsul cavity or grotto, of its kind, as could be
desired, though entirely dark: The floor. was dry
and level, and .had a kind of gravel upon it; no
nauseous venemous creature to be seen there, nei-
ther any damp or wet about it: I could find no
fault but in the entrance, which I thought might be
very
very necessary for my defence, and therefore was re-
solved to make this place my most principal maga-
zine. I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, plant-
ed in the nature of cannon. In a barrel of gun-
powder, which I took out of the sea, I brought away
about sixty pounds of good powder, which was not
damaged ; and these, with a great quantity of lead
for bullets, I removed from my castle to this retreat,
now fortified both by art and nature.
Surely it is no wonder, if at this time I thought
myself like one of the giants of old, who were said to
live in caves and holes among the rocks, inaccessible
to any but themselves, or, at least, most dangerous to
attempt. So that now it seems I despised both the
cunning and strength of the savages, either to find
me out or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused
my late dreadsul amazement: The poor creature
gave up the ghost the day after my discovery; and it
being difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably entombed him in the fame place where
he departed, « ith as much ceremony as any Weljb
foat that has been interred about the high mountain
*enmenmoure.
1 think I was now in thetwentVfthird year of my
reign, and much easier were my thoughts than for-
merly, contriving several pretty amusements and di- .
versions, to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learnt to speak Eng-
HJb, and pronounce his words very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat toge-
ther after a very familiar manner, and he lived with
me no less than twenty-six years: My dog, who was
nineteen years old, sixteen years of which he lived
with me, died of mere old age: As for my cats,
they multiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill or
drive them into the woods, except two or three,
which
which became my particular favourites. Befides
these, I continually kept two or three household kids
about me which I did learn to feed out of my hand,
and two more parrots which would talk indifferently,
and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excellent as the
first, as not taking that pains with them. Several
sea fowls I had also, which having wounded, I Cut
their wings, and growing tame, they used to breed
among the low trees about my castle walls; all which
were very agreeable to me.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them L It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the Southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day-light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a flaming hght, about two miles from
me, at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
served some savages had been, as before, but not on
the other side; but, to my great affliction, it was on
my side of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements,' I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly J could. In the next.
place I put myself in a posture of defence, by loading
my muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, resolving to defend myself till my
latest breath. After two hours space, impatient for
intelligence, I set my ladder up to the side of the
hill where there was a flat place; and then pulling
the ladder after me, ascended the top, where, laying .
myself on my belly, with my perspective glass, I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a small fire, eating,' as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes haled upon shore, wait-
ing for the flood to carry them offagain. You can-
not eafily ex press the consternation I was in at this sight
especially seeing them near me; but when f perceived
their coming must be always with the current of the
ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts, being ve-
ry sully convinced, that I might go abroad with secu-
rity all the time of flood, if they were not before
landed. And indeed this proved just as I imagined;
for no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle away,
but the tide made north-west. Before they went
off, they danced, making ridiculous postures and
gestures, for above an hour, all stark naked, but
whether men, or women, or both, I could not per-
ceive. When I saw them gone, I took^ two guns upon
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword banging by my side, I
went to the hill, where at first I made a discovery
of these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which, with the rest, were making over to the main
land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies, appeared in
my sight; and so, fired with indignation, I was sully
resolved to be revenged of the first that came there,
tho' I lost my life in the execution. It then appeared
to me that the visits, which they make to this Island,
were not very frequent, it being fifteen months before
they came again; all this time I was very unefffy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions I had of their
surprising me unawares: nor dared I offer to fire a
gun on that side of the island where they used to ap-
pear, lest, taking the alarm, the savages might re-
turn with many hundred canoes,and then God knows
in what manner I should have made my end : And
thus I was a year or more, before I ever saw any of
these devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this discourse for a while, the follow-
ing accident demands your attention, which for a
. while eluded the force of my thoughts in. revenging
myself on those heathens.
It was the 16th of May (according to my woodesl.
calendar) that the wind blew exceeding hard, accom-
panied with abundance of lightning and thunder all
T that day, and succeeded by a very stormy night.
What.occasioned this I could not imagine; but as
the seeming anger of the heavens made me have re-
course to the Bible, whilst I was seriously pondering
upon it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of %
gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprize made me start up in a mi-
nute, when, with my ladder, ascending the moun-
tain as before, that very moment a flash of fire pre-
saged the report of another gun, which I presently
heard, and found it was from that part of the sea
where the current drove me away. I.could not then
think otherwise, but that this must be a (hip in dis-
tress, and that these were the melancholy signals for
a speedy deliverance. Jndeed, great was my sorrow,
upon this occasion, but altogether vain and fruitless.
. However, 1 brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and, making a handsome pile, set it on
fire on the hill. Certain it was, that they plainly
perceived itj by their firing another gun, as soon as
it began to blaze, and after that several more from the
same quarter. All the night long did I keep up this
fire; and when the air cleared up, I perceived some-
thing a great way at sea directly east, but could not
distinguish what it was, even with my glass, by rea-
son the weather was so very foggy out at sea. How-
ever, keeping my eyes directly sixt upon it, and per-
ceiving it not to stir, I presently concluded it must be
a ship at anchor: And so very hasty 1 was to be sa-
tisfied, that, taking my gun, I. went to the south-east
I part
part of the island, to the same rocks where I had heen
formerly drove away by the current; in which time
the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow, 1 perceived the wreck of a ship cast away
upon those hidden rocks, which 1 found when I was
out with my boat; and which, by making a kind of
an eddy, were the occasion osmy preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's ruin:
For undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at. E. N. E.
Now, had they perceived the island, as I could not
imagine they. did, certainly, instead of firing their
guns for help, they might rather have ventured in
their boat, and saved themselves that way. Then I
thought, that perhaps they had done so, upon seeing
my fire, and were cast away in the attempt; for I
perceived no boat in the ship. Again, 1 imagined,
that perhaps they had another vcssel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
boat up: Or lastly, that the boat might be driven
into the main ocean, where these poor creatures
might be in the most miserable condition. But as all
these conjectures were very uncertain, I could do
no more than commiserate their distress, and thar.k
God for delivering me, in particular, when so many
perished in the raging ocean.
When. I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, I could perceive no room to suppose
any of them saved: I cannot explain, by nny possible
force of words, what longings my foul felt upon this .
light, often breaking out in this manner: Oh! that
ihcre had been but two or three, nay even one person
saved, that we might have lived together, conversed
with and comforted one another! And so much were
mv defires moved, that when !repeated these words,
Ob! that there bad heen but one! my hands would
so clench together, and my fingers press the palms of
my hands so close, that had any soft thing been be-
tween
t 99:3;
tween, they would have crushed it involuntarily,
while"my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I ne-
ver knew if any had been saved out of this ship or
not; and had only the affliction some time aster, to.
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island, which was next the shipwreck:
There was nothing on Ijim but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-knee5 d linnen drawers, and a blue
linnen shirt; but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of. In his pocket were two pieces of
eight and a tobacco-pipe, the last of which. L per-
fcrred much more than I did the sirst. And now the
calmness of the sea tempted me to venture.out in my
boat to this wreck, not only to get something neces-
sary out of the ship, but perhaps some living creature
might be on board, whose life 1 might preserve.. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that immediate-
ly I went home, and prepared every thing necesikry
for the voyage, carrying on board my boat, provisions
of all forts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh wa-
ter, and a'compass. So putting osF, 1 paddled the
canoe along the shore, till I came at last to the N.K.
part of the island, from whence 1 was to launch into
the ocean; but here the currents run so violently,
a;id appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me; foreseeing that if 1 was driven into any of these
currents, 1 might be carried not only out of the
reach or sight of the island, but even inevitably lost
in the boiling surOTs of the ocean.
So oppressed was 1 at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprize,. sailing to a little creek cn the
/hore, where stepping out, i sat me down on a rising
hill, very pensive and thoughtsul. I then perceived,
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on, which
rftade it impacticable for me to go out for lo many
i 2 hours.
hours. To be more certain, how the sets of the
titles or currents lay when the flood came in, i as-
cended a higher.piece.of ground, which overlooked
the sea both ways, and here I found, that as the
current of the ebb.set out close by ^he south point
of the island, so the current. of the.flood set.in dose
by the shore of the north side; and all that I had
to do, was, to keep to the north of the island in my
return.
That night I reposed my self in my canoe, covered
with my watch coat instead of a blanket, the hea-
vens being my tester. I set out with the first of the
tide sull north, till I felt the benefit of the current,
which carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not
With such impetuosity as.hefore, as to take from me
all government of my canoe.; so that in two hours
time I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
in a most melancholy manner. It seemed to be a
Spanijb veflel by its building, stuck fast between two
rocks; her stern and quarter beaten to pieces with
the sea; her main-mast and fore-mast were brought
©ffby the board; as much as to fay, broken short
eff. As I approached nearer, L perceived a dog on
board, who perceiving me coming, yelped and cried,
and no sooner did 1 call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of v. hich I took him al-
most famished with hunger and thirst: So that when.
I gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf could
devour it more greedily; and he drank to that de-
gree of fresh water, that he would have burst himself
.had I susfered him. .
The first sight I met v/jth in the ship, were two
men drowned.in the cook-room or fore-caftle, en-
closed in one another's arms: Hence I very probably.
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in, and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves.
waves. There were several casks of liquor, whe-
ther wine or brandy, I could not be positive, which
Jay in the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by
the ebbing out of the water, yet were two large sor
me to pretend to meddle with: Likewise I perceived
several chests, which I thought might belong to .the
seamen ; two of them [ got into my boat, without
examining then what were in them. Now had the
stern of the ship been sixed, and the fore-part bro-
ken off, certain I am I should have made a very pros-
perous voyage; since by what I after found in these
two chests, I could. not otherwise conclude, but that
the ihjp must have abundance of wealth on board:
nay, if I must guess by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres or the
Rio de la Plata, in the southern part of America, be-
yond the Brastls, to the Havanah, in the gulph of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. What became of
the rest of her sailors, I could not certainly tell;
and all her riches signified nothing at that time to.
.any body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons, sull of liquor, which with some
labour I got into my boat: In a cabin were several
muskets, which I let remain there, but. took away
with me a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it; I took also a fire-shovel and tongs,
two brass kettles, a copper potto make chocolate,
and a grid-iron, all which were extreamly liecell'ary
to me, especially the fire-shovel and . tongs. And
fo with this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I
came away, the tide serving for that purpose; and
that the same evening, about an hour within night,
1 attained the island, after the greatest toil and fa-
tigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my wearied jimte in the
boat; resolving the next morning to harbour what
1 had gotten \n my new found subterraneous grotto,
I J. " and
.and not carry my Cargo home to my antient castle.
When I had refreshed myself, and got all my
esfects on shore, I proceeded to examine the parti-
culars : And so tapping the cask, I found the liquor
to be a kind of rum, but not like what we had at the
Brasils, nor indeed near so good. At the opening
of the chest, several things appeared very usesul to
me : For instance, I found in one a very fine case of
bottles, containing the finest and best sorts of cordial
waters: Each bottle held about three pints, curiously
tipt with filver. I found also two pots full of the
choicest sweet-meats, and two more which the water
had utterly spoiled. There were likewise several good
'shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of linnen white handkerchiess and coloured
neckcloths, the former of which were absolutely ne-
cessary for wiping my face in a hot day ; and in the
till, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about
'eleven hundred in all; in all of which, decently
wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars and wedges of the fame
metal, which I believe might weigh near a pound.
In the other chest, which I guessed to belong to the'
gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that at-
tended it, I only . found some cloaths of very little
valuje, except about two pounds of fine glazed pow-
der, in three flasks, kept, as 1 believe, for charging
their fowling-pieces on any occasion. So that on
the whole, I had no great advantage by this voyage:
The money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable, all v/hiph I would have freely parted
.with for two or three Englijh pair of shoes and stock-
ings ; things that for many years I had not worn;
.except lately those which I had taken off the feet of
those unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not sq good as Englt/b shoes,' either for ease or
service: And having :found in the seamen's .chest
;'bout fifty pieces of eight in rials, but no gold, I
l 103 ii
suppose what I took from the first belonged to an
oÆcer, to whom this seemed to have a much inferior
person for its owner. Well, the money as despica-
ble as it seemed, I likewise lugged to my cave, laying
it up securely as I did the relt of my cargo. After I
had done all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing
or paddling her along till I came to my old harbour,
where I caresully laid her up, and so made the best
of my way to my castle. When I arrived there, every
thing seemed safe and quiet; so that now my only
business, was to repose myself after my wanted man-
ner, and take care of my domestic affairs. But
tho' I might have lived very easy, as wanting for no-
thing absolutely needsul, yet still I was more vigilant
than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did it was to the Eajl part of
the island, where I was well .assured that the savages
never came, and where I might not be troubled to
carry that heavy load of weapons for my defence,
as I was obliged to do if I went the other way.
Two years did Llive in this anxious conditions in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was silled with nothing but projects and de-
signs how I might escape. from this island: And so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-
bling disposition, that had I the same boat that i went
from Sake in, I should have ventured once more to
the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
1 .But certainly I was .an unhappy instance of that
.part of mankind, who made themselves wretched by
their dissatisfaction with the station which God has
placed them in: For, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition, and my father's excellent advice,
the contrary to which was, as I may fay, my original
.fin, my following.mistakes,'' of the fame niture,
had been the means of my present unhappy station.
What business had I to leave a settled fortune, and
well stocked plantation, improving and increasing,
where
where by this time I might have been worth a hun-
dred thousand mbidores, to turn supra cargo to
Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when time and patience
would have so much enlarged our stock at home, as
to be able to employ those, whose more immediate
business it was to fetch them home, even to our
doors?
But as this is very common the fate of young
heads, so as a serious reflection upon the folly of it,
ordinarily attends the exercise of suture years, when
the dear-bought. experience of time is so much re-
. pen ted of. Thus it was with me at that season; but
notwithstanding what I had, or might suffer upon
these occasions, the thoughts of my deliverance
ran so strongly in my mind, as seemed to check all the
dictates of my poor reason and philosophy. And
now to usher my kind reader, with greater pleasure
to the remaining part of my relations, 1 flatter my-
self it will not "be taken amiss to give him an account
of my first conceptions on the manner of escaping,
and upon what foundation I laid out my foolish
. schemes. ...
I must now suppose myself retired to my castle af-
ter my late voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up
and secured, as usual, and my condition in the
same manner as before, except being richer; tho' I
had as little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came among
them. One night in March, being the rainy season,
in the four and twentieth year of this my solitude, I
was laying on my bed awake, very well in health, with-
. out distemper, pain or uncommon uneasiness, either
of body or mind; yet for all this, I could not com-
pose myself to sleep the night long. All this tedious
i w hils, it is impoilible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head: I traced quite over the
whole history of my life in miniature, from my ut-
. most remembrance of things, till I came to this island;
f V v
and then proceeded to examine every "action and pas-
sage that had.occurred, since I had taken possession of
my kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter, I
was comparing my happy posture of affairs in . the;
begining of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear
and concern, since I discovered the print of a foot
in the sand; that while I continued free without no-
tions, I was incapable of forming any dreadsul ap-
prehensions; tho' I ought rather to be thanksul for
the knowledge of my danger, since then it was the.
greatest happiness to have sufficient time to provide for
my reflection: How stupendous is the goodness of
providence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that while.
men walk in the midst of so many dangers, they are
kept serene and calm, by having the event of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing nothing at all of
those many dangers that surround them, till perhaps
they are diffipated and vanished quite away.
And when I came more particularly to consider of
the real danger I had for so many years escaped; how
I had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quillity at a time, perhaps when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had only. interposed between me and
the destructive hands of the cannibals, who would»
devour me with as good an appetite as I would a pi-
geon or curlew. Surely all this, I fay, could not but
make me sincerely thanksul to my great preserver,
whose singular protection I acknowledged with the
greatest humility, and without which I must inevi-
tably have fallen into the cruel hands of these de-
vourers.
Thus having discussed these thoughts in the clear-
est manner, according to my weak understanding, I
next proceeded to consider the wretched nature of
these destroying savages, by seeming, tho' with great
reverence, to inquire why God IhouJd. give up any
of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutali-
ty itself, to devour its own kind? But as this was
rather matter of abstruse speculation, it better became
me to enquire, what part of the world these wretches
lived in; how far off the coast wSs from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home .,
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
Tcould not order myself, and my business so, that I
might be as able to attain their country, as they were
to ccme to my kingdom.
Never had I the least thoughtshow I should ma-
nage myself when 1 came thither ; what would become
of me if 1 fell into the hands of the savages; or how
I should escape from them if they made an attempt
upon me. And supposing I mould fall into their
power,'what could I do for provision, or which way
mould I bend my course? Now tho' these things did
exprefi* the greatest horror and consusion imaginable,
yet still 1. looked upon my present condition the most
miserable that possible could be, and that nothing could
be worse, except death. For (thought I) could i but
attain the shore of the main, i might perhaps meet
with seme relief, or coast it along, as 1 did with my
boy Xury on the African shore, till I came to some
inhabited country, v. here I might meet with some re-
lief, or fall in with some christian ship that might
take me in; and if I failed, why then I could but
meet with death, whici; would put an "fend to all my
miseries. But yet I mult here note, that aU this was
the sruit cf a distempered mind, an impatient.temper,
made desperate, as it were, by long continuance of
the troubles and the disappointments 1 had met with
in"the wreck, where I hoped to have found some liv-
ing person to speak to, by v hom I might have known
iiv what.plucc I was, and of the probable means of mv
deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were agitat-
ed, my resignation to the will of heaven was entire-
ly suspended; so that I had no power to fix my mind
to
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the
Main. And indeed so much was I inflamcd'upon this
account, that it set my blood into a serment,. and
my pulse beat high as tho' I had been in a fever; till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it, made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
Certainly it is very strange, that I did not dream of
what I was so intent upon; but instead of which,
my mind roved on a quite different thing, altogether
foreign to it. I dreamt, that as I wa: istuing from
my castle one morning, as customary, . pei celv J up-
on the shore two caiioes, and eleven sr.va0-s coming to
land, who had brought with "thi m anoHer Indian,
whom they designed to n.akt .^..rrice of, in order
. to devour: But justas tncy \'t.i. ».,a;^ to give the fa-
tal blov , metheugnt thr poor cid'i^ned Victim jumpt
away, and ran dirtctiy into a iittle thicK grove be-
fore my fortification, to al scond from his enemies;
when perceiving that the others did not follow him
that w ay, I appeared to him; that he humbly laic I'd
down before me, seeming to pray for my assistance;
upon which I shewed him my ladder, made him ascend,
carried him to my cave, and he became my servant;
and when I had gotten this man, I said to myself, now
surely I may have some hopes to attain the main land;
for this fellow will serve me as A pilot, tell me what
to do, and where I must go for provisions; what places
to shun, . what to vertture to, and what to escape.
But when I awak'd, and found all these inexpressible
impressions of joy entirely vanish'd, 1 fell into the
greatest dejection of spirits imaginable..
Yet after all, I made this conclusion, that my only.
way of escaping was to get a savage; and after I had
ventur'.d my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural fense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection^
objection reasonably interpos'd: How can I esfect this
(thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of 'em,
and kill them all f Why should I proceed on such a
desperate attempt, which before my scruples hadTug-
gested to me were unlawsul, and made my heart
tremble at the thoughts ofso much blood, tho' it
were a means to procure my deliverance! And tho'
I might, according to my reason, suppose that these
men were the real enemies to my life, and would de-
vour me, was it in their power, so that it was self-
preservation in the highest degree, to free myself from
this dread of life, by acting in my own defence, as
if they were actually assaulting me: Tho' all these
things, I fay, scem'd to me to be of the greatest
weight; yet, as I just said before, the dreadsul
thoughts of shedding human blood, struck such a
terror to my soul, that it was a long time before I
could reconcile myself.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
on? For notwithstanding the many disputes and per-
plexities I had with myself about it, right or wrong,
I was resolved to get one of these savages into my
hands, let it cost what it would, or lose my life in
the attempt. Thus inspired with a firm resolution,
all my wits were at work, in the next place, to find
out what methods 1 should take to answer my design;
and this indeed was very disficult to resolve on. Since
then I could not pitch upon any probable means for
it, I resolved continually to be in a vigilant posture, to
perceive when the savages came on shore,and so leave
the rest of the event,. let the opportunities offer as
they would.
Such was my sixed resolution, and accordingly I
set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartly tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west end, and south West cor-
ner of the island, almost every day, to see for canoes,
none
sone appeared, This was a very great discouragement,
at which I was very much concerned; yet never did
this wear off the edge of my desire to the thing;
but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: In a word, I was never at first so caresul
to shun the loathed sight of these savages, as Iwas now
eager to be upon them. Besides, I thought myself
sufficiently able to manage one, two or three savages
if I had them, so as to make them my entire slaves,
to do whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent
their being able at any time to do me a mischief.
Many a time did I use to please myself with this affair,
with long and ardent expectations; but nothing yet
presented, all my deep projected schemes and numer-
ous fancies vanished away, as tho' while I retained
- thpse thoughts, the decree of providence was such,
that no savages wen; to come near me.
It was about a year and a half, that as I was most
seriously musing of sundry ways how I should attain
my end, one morning early I was very much surprised
by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore toge-
ther on my side the island, and the creatures that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight. Such
a number of them disconcerted all my measures ; for
seeing so many boats, each of which. would contain
six, and sometimes more, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to order my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed: Upon which
much discomforted and perplexed, I lay still in my
castle; however I put myself in the same posture for
an attack, that I had formerly provided against, and .
was ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. But when 1 had waited a long while, till
such time as my impatient temper would let me bear it
no longer, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
as usual ascended up to the top of the hill at two stages;
however, standing that my head did not appear above
.the bill so that by any means they could not perceive
K me 1
me ., and here I observed by the assistance of my per-
spective glass, no less than thirty in number around a
sire, feasting upon what meat they had dressed: How
they cooked it, or what it was, I could not then per-
fectly tell; but they were all dancing and capering
about the flames, using many frightsul, and barba-
rous gestures.
But while with a curious eye I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits sunk within me, when I per-
ceived them drag two miserable creatures from the
boats to act a fresh the dreadsul tragedy, as I supposed
they had done before. It was not long before one of
them fell upon the ground, knocked down as I sup-
posed, with a club, or wooden sword; for that was
their manner, while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their cookery,
and then fell to devour him as they had done the for-
mer, while the last unhappy captive was left by him-
self till such time as they were ready for him. The
poor creature looked round him with a wishsul eye,
trembling at the thoughts of death, yet seeing himself
a. little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it
were inspired him with hopes of life, that he started
away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands directly to that part of the coast where
my ancient and venerable castle stood.
i You may imagine I was dreadsully affrighted upon
this occasion, when as I thought, thej pursued him
in a whole body, all runing towards my palace. And
now indeed I expected that part of my dream was go-
ing to be sulfilled, and that he would certainly fly to
my grove for protection; but for the rest of my dream
I could depend nothing on it, that the savages would
pursue him thither and find him there. However my
spirits beginning to recover, I still kept upon my
guard, when I plainly perceived there were but
three men out of the number, that pursued him^
and I was insinitely pleased with what swift-
ness
*esg the poor creature ran from his pursuers, gaining
much ground of them, that I plainly perceived,
could'he thus hold it for half an hour, there was not
the least doubt but he would save his life from the
power of his enemies. i
Between them and my castle there was a creek, that
very fame where I sailed into with all my effects from
the wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I
very much feared the poor victim would be taken, if
be could not swim for his escape: But soon was 1<sj&
out of pain for him when he made nothing of it tho'
at sull tide; but with. an intrepid courage, spurred
on by the sense of danger, he plunged into the flood,
swiming over in about thirty strokes, and then land-
ing, ran with the fame wondersul strength and swift?
ness as before. When the three pursuers came to
the creek, one of them, whom I perceived could
not swim, happily, for his part, returned back to his
company; while the others with as equal courage,
but much less swiftness, attained the other side, as
tho' th<j,were never resolved to give over their pursuit.
And now, or never, I thought was the time for me
to procure a servant, companion or assistant; and that
I was decreed by providence to be the instrument that
should save this poor creature's life. I immediately
descended my two ladders with the greatest expedition,
I took up my two guns, whi'en I said before were at
the bottom of them; and getting up again, with the .
fame haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea: In a
word taking a short cut down the hill, I interposed"
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallowing aloud
to the latter, who venturing to look back, was no
doubt at first as much terrified at me as at them. I
beckoned to him with my hand to return back, in the
mean time slowly .advancing towards the pursuers;
when suddenly rushing on the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of. my piece, and laid him
K 2 slat
flat on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire lest
the rest should hear, tho* at that distance I question
whether they could or not; and being out of sight of
the smoak, they could not eafily have known what to
make of it. The other savage seeing his fellow fall,
stopt as if he had been amazed, when advancing to.*.
wards him, I could perceive him take his bow front
his back, and sixing an arrow to it, was preparing to
shoot at me, and without dispute might have lodged
the arrow in my breast, had I given him leave; but
in this absolutely necessary cause of self-preservation,
I immediately fired at him, and shot him dead, just
as his hand was going to draw the fatal string. All
thi? while the savage, who had fled before, stood still,
had the satisfaction to fee his enemies fall, or killed
as he thought, who designed to take away his life:
So affrighted was he with the sire and nolle of my
piece, that he stood, as it were, like Loss wife, fixt
and immoval;U. without fense, and without mo-
tion. / This made me hollow to him again, making
the plainest signs I could to him to draw nearer: I
perceived he understood these tokens, by his ap-
proaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid £
should kill him too, he stopt again. Several time*
did he advance, and as often stopt in this manner, till
coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling,
as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which
I looked upon him with a smiling countenance, and
still beckoning to him at length he come close to me,
kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head upon
it,' and taking me by my foot, set the same upon his.
head: And thisr as I understood afterwards, was a
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and making very much cf him, encouraged
him in the best manner'I could. But here my work-
was not yet finished; for I peveeiveti the savage whom
I knocked down, was not killed, but stunned with
the blo.Wi and. began to come to himself. Upop which
I pointed to my new servant and shewing him that
his enemy was not yet expired, he spoke some words
to me, but what I could not understand ; yet being the
first sound of a man's voice I had heard for above these
twenty five years, they were very pleasing to me.
But there was no time for reflection now, the wound-
ed savage recovering himself so far as to sit upon the
ground, which made my poor prisoner as much afraid
as before: To put him out of which fear I presented
my other gun at the man, with an intent to shoot
him; but my savage, for so I must now call him,
prevented my firing, by making a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side. No sooner did I grant his request, but away
he runs to his en.my, and at one blJw cut osf his
head, as dexteronfly as the most accomplished execu-
tioner in Germany could have done: For it seems these
creatures make use of wooden swords, made of hard.
wood, which will bear an edge, enough to cut osf
heads and arms at one blow. When this valorous
exploit was done, he came to me laughing, as a token
of triumph, delivered me' my sword again with
abundance' of surprizing gestures, laying it along^
with the bleeding and ghastly head of the Indian at my
feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived was the manntr of killing the savage at such
a distance v/ithout a bow and arrow: and such was
his longing defire to know it, that he first poinud to
the deid creature, and then made si .ns to mi io grant
him leave to go to him. L'pon which i bid him go,
and as well as 1 could made' h.m sensible i granted his
request. But when h. came there, iiow woncU i!u!ly
was h. stricken w;th amazen.ent! first he turned iim
oh one side, then on urother, v/er.deiing he i. uld
perceive no quantity of blooti, hi. biecd n inwardly:
And after lufHcKnilj admiring the wound die Luilct.
hael made in his breast, he tooK. up his bow ami ar-
rows,
[ "4. 7
rows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, least
the rest,. miffing their companions, might .come in.
pursuit of him. And this I found he understood very.
well, bv his making me understand that his design
was to tury them, that it might not be seen if it hap-
pened; and which by signs again, I made him sensible
I very much approved of. Immediately he fell to
work, and never was grave-digger more dexterous
in the world than he was; for in an instant, as I
might fay, he scraped a large hole in the sand with his
hands,. sufficient to bury the first in, there he dragged
him, and without any ceremony covered him over.
In like manner he served the other: So that I am
sure no undertaker could be more expert in his busi-
ness, for all this was done in less than a quarter of
an hour. I then called him away, and instead of car-
rying him directly to my castle at first, I conveyed
him to my cave on the surther part of the Island:
And so my dream was not sulfilled in that particular,
that my grove should prove an assylum or sanctuary
to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, .undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of.
]oy, that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave
him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water
to drink, of which feeding very chearsully, to his
exceeding refreshment, I made him a convenient bed
with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes) and then point-
ing to him made signs for him to lie down to sleep,.
upon which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young fel-
low, extremly well made, with strait long limbs,
not too large; tall, and well shaped; and, as I could
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His cpua-
;"'. tenance
[ »s J
tenance had nothing in it fierce and surly, but rather
a fort of majesty in his face; and yet, especially when
he smiled, he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European. His hair was not curled like wool, as
many of the Blacks are, but long and black, with the
most beautisul, yet careless tresses spreading over his
shoulders He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness iji hi*
eyes. His stein was not so tawny as the Virginians,
Brajilians, or other Americans, but rather of a bright
dun olive colour, that had something agreeable in it,
tho' not very easy to give a description of. His face
was round and plump, with a small nose, very dif-
ferent from the flatness of the negroes, a pretty small
mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well set, and
white as the driven snow. In a word, such hand-
some seatures, and exactly symetry in every part, made
me consider, that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no less gracesul and accomplished, than the
great Oroov.oko, whose memorable behaviour, and un-
happy contigencies of life, has charmed the world
both to admiration of his person, and compassion to
his sufferings.
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my hap-
piness centered in this, that I had now got a good ser-
vant, or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I was
resolved to prove a kind master, and lasting friend.
He had not, I think, slept above an hour, but he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard by, out he run, from the cave towards me in my
enclofaie, and laying himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made all the antick gestures
imaginable, to express his thanksulness to me for be-
ing his deliverer. I confess, tho' the manner of his
behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to occasion
laughter; yet I was very much moved at his affection
so that my heart melted within me, fearing he
might die away in excess of joy, like reprieved male-
sactorsi
factors; and then I was incapable either to let him
blood, or administer physic. And I wish many
christians would take example by th'is heathen, to
have a lasting remembrance of those great benefits
and deliverances they have received, by the kind me-
ditation and powersul interposition of their benefactors
and deliverers: And 1 should be glad also, if I hacl
no occasion to blame many, who instead of thank-
fully acknowledging these kind of favours and benefits,
rather abuse and contemn those good persons who
have been the principal instruments to save them from
destruction.
But leaving these very just reflections, I must re-
turn to the object that occasioned them: For my man,
to conclude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down
his head again on the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his head, as he had done be-
fore, making all the signs of subjection, servitude and
submiffion irryfiaginable, to let me understand he
would serve me as long as his life endured. As I un-
derstood him in many things, I made him sensible I was
very well pleased with him; and in a little time I began
to speak to him, and learn him how to talk to me again.
In the first place I made him to understand his name
to be Friday, because it was upon that day I saved his
lift: Then i taught him to fay Majler, which 1 made
him sensible was to be my name. . I likewise learned
him to lay yes and no, and to know what they meant.
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while 1 drank it before^him, and sopt my
bread in it; and [ gave him a cake of bread, caus-
ing him to do the like, to which he readily consent-
ed, making sions of the greatest satisfaction ^imagi-
nable. _'
All thai night did I keep him there, but no sooner
did the n'ornini^ light appear, when i ordered him to
arise and come along with me, with certain tokens
that i would give him some cloaths like mine; at
i . which
> I »7 I
which he seemei very glad, as being stark nakeM, not
so much as any thing to cover what ought to be con-
cealed. As we passed by the place where the two
men "had been interred, my man pointed directly to
their graves, shewing me the marks that he had made
to find them again; giving me to understand by signs,
that he should dig them up and devour them: Upon
which I appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost abhorrence, made as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning him with my hand to
come away, which he did with the greatest reverence
aud submission. After this I conducted him to the top
of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages were
yet remaining there; but when I looked through my
perspective glass, I could fee no appearance of them,
nor of their canoes, so that it was very evident they
never minded their deceased companions whom we had
slain, which if they had, they would surely have search-
ed for, or left one boat behind for them to follow," af-
ter they retuq&ed to their pursuit.
But still my curiosity and desire of satisfaction ani-
mating my spirit with fresh courage, I took my man
Friday with me, putting a sword into his hand, with
the bow and arrows at his back, which I perceived
he.could use very dexterously, causing him to carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself; and thus
equipped against all attacks, away we marched direct-
ly to the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, J was stricken with the usual hor-
ror at so dreadsul a spectacle; whilst Friday indeed
was no way concerned about it; being, no doubt, in
his turn like one of these devourers. Here lay several
human bones, there several pieces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched; whilst streams of
blood ran .promiscuously as waters from a fountain..
As I was musing in this dreadsul sight, Friday took all
the pains he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four prisoners to
feast
[ ti* I
feast upon, three of which they had eaten, and
that as he was the fourth, pointing to himself: That
there having been a bloody battle between them and
his great king, in the just defence of whom he was
taken prisoner, with many others; all which were.
carried to several places to be devoured by their con-
querors, and that it was his misfortune to be brought
hither by these wretches, for the fame purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set oa
fire, and so burnt them t© ashes: And still I found
my man retained the nature of a cannibal', having a
hankering ftomaek after some of the flesh: But such.
an extream abhorrance did I express at the last appear-
ance of it, that he durst no otherwise than conceal j.
sot I made him very sensible that if he offered any such.
thing I would' certainly shoot him- '^_
All this being done, I carried my man with me to
my castle; and then I gave him a pair of linen.
drawers, which I had taken out of the poor gunner's
chest before-mentioned; and which, with a little al-
teration, fitted him very well: In the next place I
made him a jerkin of goatsi-fkin, such as my skill!
was able to manage, tho' I thought my self then a to-
lerable good taylor. I gave him also a cap, which
I made of a hare-skin, very convenient and fashion-
able. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my man
was no less proud of his habit, than I was in seeing
him in it. Indeed he went very aukwardly in these
things .at first, the drawers being too heavy on his
thighs, not used to bear any weight, and the sleeves
of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside
of his arms; but a little easing them, where he com-
plained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at
length. he took to them very well.
My next concern was where I should lodge him;
and that I might do very well by him, and yet be per-
'. . ' fectly
sectly easy myself, i erected a tent for him In the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in the in-
side of\the last, and outside of the first: And as
there was an entrance or door in my caVe, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to open on
the inside. I barred it up in the night time, taking
ih my ladders too ;' 'so that was my marl to prove
treacherous, there would be no way to come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much jioise in getting over, that it must needs wake*i
me i .for my first wall had now a complete roof over
it of long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the mountain, which was again laid
crose with smaller sticks instead of laths, and thatch-
ed over a great thickness' with the rice straw, which
was as strong as reeds; and at the hole of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
hut have fallen down and made a great noise; and as
to my weapons, every night I took them all to my
bed's side.'
But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never master had more sincere, faithsul and lov-
ing servant than Friday proved to me, without passions,
sullenness or designs, perfectly obliging and engaging:
His affections were as much tied to me, as those of a
child to his parents; and I might venture to fay, ha
Would have sacrificed his life for the saving of mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed the many
testimonies he gave me of this, very sufficiently con-
vinced me, that I had no occasion to use these pre-
cautions. And here I could not but reflect, with great
Wonder, that however it has pleased the almighty in
his providence, and in the government of the crea-
tion, to take from so great a part of the world of hi.1
creatures, the noblest uses to which their faculties,
*ad -the powers of their souls are adapted; yet that
lie has bestowed upon them the fame reason, affections,
sentiments of kindness and obligation, passions of
resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capa-
cities of doing and receiving good, that he has giving
us; and that when he is gracioufly pleased to osfer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as" ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper uses
for which they were bestowed, than we are sometimes.
These thoughts would make me very melancholy,
especially when I considered how mean a use we make
of all these, even though we have these powers en-
lightened by the holy spirit of God, and by the know-
ledge of his word, as an addition to our understand-
ing; and why it has pleased the heavenly wisdom to
conceal the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of fouls, who would certainly make a much
better use of it, than mankind generally does at this
time. And these reflections would sometimes lead
him so far, as to invade the sovereignty of providence,
and, as it were, arraign the justice of such arbitary
disposition of things, that should' obscure that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
like duty from all. But I closed it up, checking my
thoughts with this conclusion; first, that we were
ignorant of that right and law by which these mould
he condemned; but that, as the almighty was nece£.
sarily, and by the nature of his essence, infinitely
just and holy; so it could not be otherwise, but that
if these creatures were all destined to absence from
himself, it was on account of sinning against that light
which, as the scriptue says, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their conscience woulcf acknow-
ledge to be just, though the first foundation was not
discovered to us; And, secondly, that still as Wf are
the clay in the hand of the potter, no vesstl could
thus say to him, Why hast thou fashioned me after
this manner i
I
Iliad not been above two or three or days returned to
my castle, but my chief design was, how I should
bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding; and
to take from him that inhuman relish he, by nature,
had been accustomed to, J thought it my duty to let him
taste other flesh; which might the rather tempt him to
the fame abhorrence I so often expressed against their
accursed way of living. Upon which, one morning,
I took him out with me, with an intention to kill a kid
out of the flock, and bring it home and dress it: But
as I was going, I perceived a (he-goat lying down in the
shade and two young kids fitting by her. Immediate-
ly I catched hold of my man Friday, and bidding him
ltand still, and not stir, I presented my piece, and
shot one of the kids. My poor servant, who had at
a distance perceived me kill his adversary, and yet did
not know by what means, or how it was done, stood
trembling and surprised, and looked so amazed, that
I thought he would have sunk into the earth. He
.did not see the kid I aimed at, or beheld I had killed it,
but ript up his waistcoat to see if ke was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; so coming
to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly pronouncing
many things which I did'aafenot understand, the mean-'
hig of which at length I perceived was, that I would
not take away his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to see him in that
^condition where nature is upon the severest trial, when
the immediate hand os death is ready to put for ever a
period to this mortal life: And indeed so much com-
. passion had I for this creature, that it was with diffi-
culty I refrained from tears. But however as another
fort of countenance was necessary, to convince him
that I would do him no harm, I took him smiling
by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing to
the kid which I had slain, made signs to him to fetch
it, which accordingly he did. No less curious was
&e in viewing how the creature was killed, than he
L had
f 122 1
had been before in beholding the Indian; while he
was admiring it, I charged inj gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within Ihot; ami therefore to Jet Friday
understand what I was going to do, I called him to
me again, pointing at the fowl, which I found to be
a parrot. I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bad him
look, when immediately he law the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding ajl
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
"because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly, a tiling so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it, far or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greatest
astonishment to one who never had heard of such a
thing in his whole life: And really his amazement
continued so long, that had I allowed it, he would
have prostrated himself before rae and my gun, with
the greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as seiffer his nngers
to touch i t for several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if
the fenceless piece had understood and answered him:
All this I could perceive him do, when he thought my
back was turned; the chief intent of which was, to
desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to un-
derstand. ,
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from those .comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; But when his astonishment was a little over,
I made' tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot that
I had shot, which he accordingly did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason the bird not being
tjuite dead, had fluttered some way farther from the
place where he fell. In the mean time as he was
looking for her, I took the advantage of charging my
gun again, that I might be ready for another mark
<hat might offer itself; but nothing more becurctf a*
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening too'c off the skin, and divided the carcase as
well as I could- Part of this flesh. I stewed, or boiled,
in a pot I had for this occasion. And then spreading.
my table, I lat down, giving my man some to eat too, -
who was wondersully pleased, and seemed to like it
rcry well j. but what was most surprising to him, was
to fee me eat salt with. it * Upon which he made me
to understand, that the salt was very bad for me; when
putting a little into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate
it in such a manner as to spit and sputter at it, awl
then washed his mouth with fresh water i But to shew
him, how contrary his opinion was to mine, I put
some meat in my mouth without salt,. and feigned
to spit and sputter as much for the want. of it, as he
had done at it: Yet all this proved of no signification
to Friday : And it was a long while before he could
endure salt in his meat or broth, and ev«n then, but
a very small quantity.
Thus having fed him susficiently with boiled meat
and broth that time, the next day I was r«solved to,
feast him with a roasted piece of the kid. And having
no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use of
that common artifice, which many of the people of
England have; that is, to set two poks upon. each
side of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat thereon with a string, and so turning round con-
tinually,. roast it, as we read bloody tyrants have cruel-
ly roasted martyrs. This practise caused great admi-
ration in my man Friday^ which is another-guesi
way, to what the barbarous savages were accustomed^
But when he came to taste the sweetness and tender-
Hess of the slesh, he exprest his entire satisfaction in
above a thousand different ways.. And as I could
not but understand his meaning, you may.be sure I
was wondersully pleased; especially when he made;
L. z "it
it also very plain to me, that he wpuld never, whilst"
he lived eat man's flesh more.
Well, now it was high time I should set my ser-
vant to work; and so the next day I put him to beat
out some corn, and sift it in the same manner as I
had done before. And really the fellow was very
quick and handy in the execution of any thing I or-
dered him to go about. I made him understand that
it was to make bread for us to eat, and after let him fee
me make and bake it: In short, he did every thing as
I ordered him, in a little time, as well as I could do it
myself.
When I considered, that I had two mouths to feed
instead of one, I was necessarily obliged to think that,
in consequence thereof, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of com
than I commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a bigger piece of land, fencing it in the same
manner as I had done before; in the execution.of which
I must give Friday this good word, that no man coul4
work more hard or willingly than he did: And when
I made him sensible that it was for bread to serve Kim
as well as me; he then very passionately made me
understand, that he thought I had much more labour
on me on his account alone, than I had for myself;
and that no pains or diligence should be wanting iri
him, jf I would but direct him in those works wherein
he might succeed.
. I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in the Island: For, after some time,
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of those things which I was wont to call for,
and the places where I used to fend him. So that my
long filent tongue, which had been useless so many
years, except in an exclamatory manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied,
in teaching and talking to my man Friday; for in-
deed I had such a singular' satisfaction in the fellow
. himself^
E 123 I
Himself, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned ho-
nesty appear more and more to me every day, that I
*eally began entirely to love the creature: And for his
part I believe there .was no love lost, and that his
nature had been more charmed with my exceeding
kindness, and his affections more placed upon me,
than upon any other object whatsoever among.the Bar-
barians. But still I had a great mind to try if he had
any hankering inclination to return to his own country
again: And by this time having learned him Englijh so
well, that he could give me tolerable answers to any
questions which I demanded, I asked him, Whether
that nation^ to. which he belonged, never conquered
in battle I This question made Friday smile, and to
which. he. answered, Tes, yes,. we. always fight the bet-
ter; as much as to lay, they always got thVbetter in?.
fight. Upon which we proceeded on the following.
discourse.. You: say, said I, that . you always sight.
the better; why then, Friday^. how. came you to be.
taken prisoner ?i
Friday.. Butfor all that my nation.beat much-
Master. How,. say you,. beat!. if your nation beat
tlwm, how came you to be taken. ?.
Friday, They more many mans than'my nation'iit
the place where me was; they. take one,. two, three,
and me: My nation much. over beat them ia the yond~
*r place, where me no was; there my nation. mans
beat one,. two, three great tousand'..
Master.. Then why did not your menrrecoveE you
from the hands of your enemies h
Friday. They run, one,. two. or three,. and me;
they make all go in the canoe*;. my nation have no
eanoo that time.; /
Master. It's *ery wels,. Friday:.. But what does
.your nation do with die prisoners they take? What
do they carry them away,. and. eat them, as these
have done i:
L 1 Friday.
t rz6 f
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans tooj tea
op all.
Master, To what place do they carry them to b»
devoured I
Friday, Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And have you been with diem here Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here: (pointing to the North
Weft of the Island, being the side where they used
to land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the canibals, having been formerly
among the savages, who used to come on shore on
the farthest part of the Island, upon the same bloody
occasions as he was brought here for: And some time
after I carried him to that place where he pointed j;
and.no sooner did he come there but he presently knevr
the ground, signifying to me, that he was once there,.
when they ear up twenty men, two women and a
young child. But .as he could not explain the num-
ber in Englijh, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and usesul for me to
know: For aster I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
Island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
.often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, there
. was no danger, no canoes ever lost .„ but that after a
little way out to the sea, there was a strong current,
and a wind always one way in the afternoon. This
I thought at firlt to be no more than the sets of the
tide, of going out, or coming in; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draft and
reflux of the mighty river Orgonoko, in the mouth.
or gulph of which I imagined my kingdom lay; anil
that the land which I perceived to the W. and N. W;
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north of the
river. A thousand questions (if that would satisfy me)
did I ask Friday about the nature of the country, the
sea, the coasts, the inhabitants, and what nations
were nearest them : 'To which questions, the poor
fellow declared all he knew, with the greatest open-
ness and utmost sincerity. When I demanded of hirst
the particular names of the various' nations of his
sort of people, he could only answer me in general,
that they were called Caribbe. Hence it was I consi-
dered, that these must be the Caribbees, so much takea
notice of by our maps to be on that part of America's
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonokt
to Gutania, and so on to St. Martha. Then Friday
proceeded to tell me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, as much as to fay, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, such as I was, pointing to
my whiskers, and that they had killed much mans*
I was not ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards
treated these creatures ., so that I presendy concluded
it must be them, whose cruelties had spread through-
out America, to be remembered even to. succeeding
generations. '.'i. . . :.
Well, you may.be sure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information of my man had let me
to, was very comfortable to me, and made me so cu-
rious as to ask him, how I might .depart from this
Island, and get among those white men ? he told me,
yes, yes, 1 night go in two canoes. In twa canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean? surely he means
.one for himself and another for me; and if not, how
.must two canoes hold me, without being joined, and
then put one part of my body in one^'and the other
in t'other? and indeed it was a long while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
large boat as big as two canoes, able to bear wish th*
waves, and not so liable to be overset as a small one
must have been.
I believe there is no state of life but what may be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part to
make it so. He is not the happiest man that has the
most riches, but he that is content with what he hath.
Before I had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now I enjoyed the happy benefits
of him, I retained the fame thoughts for want of »
deliverance from a place of retirement, ease and
plenty, where providence had sufficiently blessed me r
In a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity
to make my escape from this Ifland, and that this
poor savage might be a great surtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent
as to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains
or diligence to instruct him, according to my poor
share of knowledge, in. the principles of religion,
and the adoration that he ought to.pay to the true
God. One time, as 'I very well remember, I asked
him who made him? at first, the innocent creature
did not understand what I meant, but rather thought
I asked himr who was his father? upon which I took
another way to make him sensible, by demanding of
.him an answer to this question. Friday, (said I) who
is it that made the sea, this ground whereon we walk,
and all these hills and woods which we behold? and
here indeed I did not miss of my i ntention ; for he told
me it was one old Benamuckee, (the God whom I
supposed'these savages adared). who. lived a great way
beyond all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was
an utter. stranger to them. He coulddeseribe nothing
of this great person; and all that he could. fay was,
that he was very old, much older than the sea and
land, the moon, or the stars. Friday, (said I again)
if this great and. old person has made all things in the
worlds
world, how comes it to pass, that all things, as m# ..
in particular, do not adore and worship him? upon
this looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of
innocence, he replyed, master, all things say O t*
him, by which it may reasonably be supposed he meant
adoration. And where, said I, do the people of your
country go when they die? he answered, they all go
to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are
eaten up, do they go there? Said he, Benamuckee love
them dearly; we pray to Benamuckee in de Canoo, and
Benamuckee would love me, when dey eat a me all up.
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and
such made me sensible, that the true God is worship-,
ed, tho' under imperfect similitudes. And that the
false adoration which the heathens give to their ima-
. ginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
j essence, as the most learned atheists, falsely so called^
can bring "against it: For God will be glorified in his
] .works, let the denomination. be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
-God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right'notion of faith, in a place where the power os
the Almighty has not permitted it to' be preached; and
therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedience
( is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting by
* that light and knowledge which they are possessed
s ©f, may undoubtedly obtain.a happy salvation, th&*
not that enjoyment with Chrijl as his saints, con-
fessors and martyrs.
. / . But leaving these determinations aside, more fit for
the ablest divines than me to discuss, I began to in-
struct my servant in the saving knowledge of the
true deity; in which, the directions of God's hoi?
spirit assisted me. I lifted up my hands to heaven,
and pointing thereto, told him, that the great maker
of heaven and earth lived there; That as his infinite
power fashioned this world out of a consused chaotv
and made it in that beautisul frame which we behold
so
Ho Tie governs find preserves it, "by his uracfoubtecf
knowledge, sovereign greatness, and peculiar provi-
dence: That he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to. us, and take every
thing away from us: That he was a rewarder and
punisher of good and evil actions: That there was
nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so secret
but he could bring to light; And thus by degrees I
^opened his eyes, and described t.9 him the manner of
the creation of the world, the situation of paradice,
the transgressions of our first parents, the wicked-
ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal sins
^nd'abominations of the whole earth. When these
things were implanted in his mind, I told him, that
as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resolved
to destroy this world, 'till his son, Jesus Cbrijt, in-
terposed in our behalf, and to procure our redemp-
tion, obtained leave of his heavenly Father to come
down from heaven into the world, where he took
human nature upon him, instructed us in our way
to eternal life, and died as a sacrifice for£4t»Tins:
That he was now ascended into heaven, mediating
for our pardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining
all those benefits which we asked in his name, by
humble and hearty prayers, which were heard in the
throne of heaven. As very frequently I used to in-
culcate things into his mind, Friday one day told
me, that if our great God could hear us beyond the
sun, he must then surely be a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way, and yet could
not hear them, till they ascended the great mountains,
where he dwelt, to speak to him.. What, said I,
Friday, did you go thither to speak to him too? he
answered, no, they never went that were young
men; none but old men, called their Qcwokakee,
meaning the Indian priests, who went to fay O, (so
he called saying their prayers) and they returned back,
aud told them what Bmammku said. From hence \
could
r is* 1
"Cbcld not but observe how happy we christians are^
who have God's immediate revelation for our certain
;guide; and that our faith is neither misted, nor our
.season imposed upon, by any set of men resembling
these Indian impostors.
But to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
.day, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountains to fay O to their
god Benamtickee, was an imposture And that their
bringing back an answer, was all a sham, if not
"worse; for if there was any such thing spoken ta
them, sometimes* it must proceed from an infernal
spirit. And here I thought it necessary to enter into
a long discourse with . him, which I did after this
manner: . u ..
..Friday,. ((aid I) you must know, that before this
world. was made, there was one almighty power,
existent before the beginning, by whose power all
.things were made, and whose majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of a hea-
venly nature,. fee created an gels and archangels, that
.is, glorious spirits resen;biing himself, to encompass
round his throne, eternally singing forth his praise in
the most heavenly sounds and divine harmony. And
.among this heavenly choir, Lucifer bore a great sway,
.as being then one of the particular favourites of these
.celestial abodes: .But he, contrary to that duty he
.owed bis heavenly sovereign, with unbounded ingra-
titude to his divine creator, not only envyed him
.*hat adoration which was his due, but thought to
usurp that thxone which he had neither power to
keep, nor title to pretend to. He raised a disien-
tion and civil war in heaven, and had a number of
angels to take his part. Unbounded folly; stupen-
dous pride; thus to hope for victory, and aspire above
his powersul Creator 1 the deity, not fearsul of such
an enemy, yet justly provoked at this rebellion, com-
œilfions his archangel St. Michael to lead forth the
heavenly
neavehly host, and give him battle; the advantage of
which was quickly perceived, by Satan's being over-
thrown, and the prince of the air, (for so the Devil
was called) with all his fallen angels, driven headlong
into a dismal place, which is called hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfaction,
by his gestures, that God had sent the Devil into the
deep hole. And then J desired him to give great heed
to what I had surther to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, yet equal to him in power and glory,
Let us make Man (said he) in our own image, after our
ewn likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over the
creatures in the world which we have created. And
these, he intended, should glorify him in heaven, ac-
cording to their obedienee in this state of probation on
earth, which was as it were to be the school to train
them up for those heavenly mansions. Now Satan,
feeing himself foiled, yet that Gcd had not taken
the power from him, as prince of the air, which
power heaven designed he should retain, whereby his
creatures might be tried; in revenge to the disgrace
he had received, he tempts Adam's wife, Eve, to taste
.of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which God
had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape of a
serpent, being then a most beautisul creature, and
tells her, That it was no better than an imposition
which God had put upon her and her husband, not
to cat of that fair fruit .which he had created; that
the taste thereof would make them immortal, like
Cod himself; and consequently as great and power-
ful as he. Upon which, she not only eat thereof her-
self, but made her husband eat also, which brought
them both .under the heavenly displeasure.
.. Here
Here Friday expressed a great concern: Ah! peer
mans! (cryed he) naughty IVomans! naughty Devil!
make God not love de mans, make man like Devil him-
fetf.
Friday, soid I, God still loved mankind; and tho*
the Devil tempted human nature so far, he would not
suffer him to have absolute power over them. I
have told you before of his tender love to his people,
till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his commands and
rebelled against him ; and that even then, how Jesus
'Christ his only son came to save sinners. But still,
every man that lives in the world, is under tempta-
tion and trial. The Devil has yet a power, as prince
of the air, to suggest evil cogitations in our minds,
nnd prompt us on to wicked actions, that he might
glory in our destruction. Whatever evil thoughts we
have, proceeded from him. So thatGod, in this our dis-
tress, expects that we should apply ourselves to him by
fervent prayer for our speedy redress: He is not like
Senamuckee, to let none come near him but Oowoka-
kee; but suffers the people, as well as priests, to offer
themselves at his feet, thereby to be delivered from
the power and temptation of the Devil.
But tho' at sirst, my man Friday expressed some con-
gee™ at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not so
easy to imprint the right notions of him in his mind,
as it was about the divine essence of God: For there
nature assisted me in all my arguments to shew to him
plainly the necessity of a great siist cause, and over-
ruling governing power, a secret directing providence,
and of the equity and reasonablcls of paying ado-
ration to our creator; Whereas there appeared no-
thing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of
his first beginning, his nature, and above all, of his
inclination to evil actions, and his power to tempt us
on to the like. And indeed tnis unlearned Indian, by
the meer force of nature, puzzled me with one par-
ticular question, contrary to whatever I had expected
from him. . . / M I
! had, it seems, one day, been talking to him of
the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite ab-
horrence of sin, insomuch that the scriptures stilcd
him a consuming fire to all sinsul workers of iniquity;
and that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to
destroy all the world in a moment, the greater part
.of which arc continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a
great while to what I said, aster I had .been telling
him, how the Devil was God's enemy in the hearts of
men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good designs of providence, and to destroy the king—
:dom of Christ in the world, and so forth: Very well,
master (said Friday) you say, God is so strong, so
great, is he not much stronger, much mightier than the
haughty Devil ? to be sure, Friday, said I, God is more
wife, and stronger than the serpent: He is above the
DeVil, which makes us pray to him, that he would
tread down Satan under our feet, enable us to resist
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
IVhy then, answered Friday quickly, if God, as you fay,
has much strong, much might as the Devil, why God no
kill Devil, make no more tempt, ho more do wicked?
You may be certain I was strangely surprised at this
question of my man's; and tho' an old man, I was
But a young doctor, and consequently very ill qualified
'for a casuist, or a res .her of intricate doubts in reli-
gion. And as it required some time for me to study for
.sai answer, I pretended not to hear him, nor to ask
him what he said: But too earnest was he for an an-
swer, not to forget his question, which he repeated in
. the vtry some broken words as above. When I had
recovered myself a little, Friday (said I) God will at last
punijh him severely, being reserved for judgment, and fs
to he cast into the bottomless pit, to remain in fire ever-
lasting. But all this did not satisfy Friday, for return-
ing upon me, he repeated my words, reserve at
last, me no understand; but vjhy not kill Devil now,
.. '* not
not kill Devil great, great while go? Friday, said \\
you may as well ask me why God does not kill you
and I, when by our wicked actions we so much of-
fend his divine Majesty? he gives us time to repent
of our fins, that thereby we may obtain pardon. Ai
these words, obtain pardon, Friday mused a great
while; and at last looking me stedfastly in the fare:
IVell, well, find he, that's very well; so you, I Devil,
all wicked mans, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity*.
when it became very evident to me, how inter natu-
ral notions will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a deity, and to the homage due to
the supreme being .of God; but however nothing but
divine revelation can from the knowledge of J.'sut
Chriji, and of a redemption purchased for us, of a
mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
at the footstool of Gcd's throne; and therefore tht
Gospel of our Lord and Saviour 'Jesut. Ghrijl, that is,
the word and spirit of God, promised for the ^uide
aud sanctisicr of people, are the most necessary instruc-
tors of the souls of men, in the saving knowledge cf
the almighty, and the means to attain eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to the
discourse between my man and me, for which purpose
I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some occasion
to go out, sending Friday for something that was a eooili
way off. I then fell on my knees, and besceched.
God that he would inspire me so far, as to guide this.
poor savage in the knowledge of Chriji, to answer his
questions more clearly, that his conscience might be
convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When
he returned again, I entered into a very long discourse
with him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the saviour of the world, and the doctrine of.'
repentance preached from heaven together with an holy
fa;th in our blessed redeemer' Jesus Chriji: And theni
I proceeded to explain to. him, according to my weak
capacity,.
i 13° 1
rapacity, the reason why our Saviour took not on him
the nature of Angels, but rather the feed of Abraham y
and how upon that account the fallen Angels had no
benesit by the redemption; and lastly, that he came
only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the
like. God knows, I had more sinperity than know-
ledge in all the ways I took for this poor Indian's In-
struction and I must acknowledge, that I believe
every body that acts upon the fame principle will fin
that in laying heavenly truths open before him, in
many things,. I informed and instructed myself, that
either I did not know, or had not perfectly considered
of before? But as I searched into them for the informa-
tion of this poor savage, so. they naturally occurred to.
my mind; and my enquiry after many things was
more asfectionate than ever I felt in my life: so that
however this poor creature might be improv'd by my
instruction, certain it is, that upon this account 1 had
great reason to bless kind providence for sending him
to me. His company allayed my grief, and made my
habitation more comfortable: And when I reflected that
this solitary life, to which I had been so long confined,
had not only moved me to look towards Heaven, but
made me the instrument, under providence, to save the
life, and, for aught I knew, the foul of a poor savage,
by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus Christ;
this caused a secret joy -to spread thro' every part of
my foul,. and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place„ which 1 once thought to be the
most miserable part of the world.
All the remainder of my time did I continue in this
thanksul frame of mind, and for three years did my
man and I live in the greatest enjoyment and happi-
ness, by our conversation one with another, as much
as I could expect or desire. And indeed I believe the
sivage was as good a christian as I; tho' I hope we
were equally penitent; and such penitents that were.
comforted and restored by God's holy spirit: far now
we
we had the word of the Lord to instruct us in the right
way, and we were no farther off the assistance of the
holy ghost, than if we had been on the EngUjh shore..
By the constant applications I made of the scriptures,..
as I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly endea-
voured to make him understand evwy part of it, as
much as lay in my power. He also, on the other hand,
by his very serious questions and enquiries, made me
a much better proficient in scripture-knowledge than
I should have been by my own private reading and
study. I must not omit another thing proceeding from
the experience I had in my retirement; it was, that
infinite and inexpressible blessing, the knowledge cf.
God thro' Christ "Jesus, which was so plans and easy
to be understood, as immediately to direct me to cany
on the greak work of sincere repentance for my sins, r
and laying hold of a saviour for eternal l!f;, to a prac-.^
tical stated reformation and obedience to all God's
institutions, without the assistance of a reverend and
orthodox divine; and especially by this fame instruc-
tion,. so to enlighten this savage creature, as to make
him such a good christian as very few could exceed
him. And there was only this great thing wanting,
that I had no authority to administer the holy sacra-
ment, that heavenly participation of Christ's body
and blood; yet however we rested ourselves content
that God would accept our defires, and, according to
our faith, have mercy on us..
But what we wanted one way was madeup in ano-
ther, and that was, universal peace in our little church;
We had no disputes or wran^Iings about the nature
and equality of the holy, blessed, and undivided tri-
nity; no niceties in doctrinej or schemes of church
government.; no sour and morose dislenters to impose
more sublimated notions upon us, nor pedant sophis-
ters to confound us with unintelligible mysteries: but
instead of all this, .we enjoyed the most certain guide <
to heaven; that is, the word of God, besides vyhich
M 3 we.
we had the comfortable views of his spirit, leading'
us unto the truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his word. And as the
knowledge and practice of which are the principal
means of salvation, I cannot see what it avails any
christian church or man in the world, to amuse
themselves with every indifferent speculation and opi-
nion, except those who have a mind to display their
particular vanity and affectation.
You may well suppose that, by these common dis-
courses we had together, my man and I became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I could fay, but Friday understood, speaking
verv fluently, tho' indeed it was but broken Englijh.
And really I now took a particular pleasure in relating
. all my adventures, especially those that occured since
"my being cast on this island. I made him understand
that wondersul mystery, as he conceived, of gunpow-
der and bullet, and taught him how to shoot: 1 also
presented him a knife, which pleased him exceedingly;
making him a belt with a frog hanging thereto, like
those in which we wear hangers in England; and in-
stead of a hanger to put in that frog, I gave him a
hatchet, which was not only as good, but a more ex-
cellent weapon upon any other occasion. In a word,
my man, thus accoutered, looked upon himself as
great as Don Quixote, when that celebrated champion
went to combat the wind-mill.
After all this, I gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of the territories of Europe, and in a particular
manner of Old England, the place of my nativity. I
laid before him the manner of our worshipping God,
our behaviour to one another, and how we traded in
ships to every part of the universe. I then told him
my misfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him,
as near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
had been long gone before. I brought him to the
ruins of our boats, which before my whole strength
.. could
could not move, but now was almost rotten and sal- _
len to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view this
boat with an uncommon curiosity, which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while and said
nothing. At last said 1, Friday, what makes you pon-
der so much? he replyed, O Majler, me see like boat
come to place at my nation.
I was some time indeed before I understood what
my man meant; but examining farther into it, I plain-
ly found, such another boat, resembling that, had come
to the country where he dwelt; as much as to fay,
by his farther explanation, that the boat was driven
there thro* violent storms and stress of Weather. It
presently came into my mind, that some European ship
having been cast away, the poor distrcst creatures
were forced to have recourse to the boat to save their
lives; and being all, as I thought, drowned, I never
concerned myself to ask any thing about them, but
my only enquiry was about the boat, and what de-
scription my man could give of it.'
Indeed ""Friday answered my demands very well,
making every thing very plain to my understanding;
but especially I was satisfied when he told me, with a
great warmth and adour, 0 majler, we save white
mans from drown: Upon which I immediately asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called them,
in the boat? yes yes, said he, the boat full, very full,
white mans. How many, Friday? said I. Hereupon
he numbered his fingers and counted seventeen. And
when I asked him what became of them all, and whe-
ther they lived or not? he replyed, yes Majler, they
all live, they be live 'm<mg my Nation. This plainer in-
formation put new thoughts into my head, that these
must be those very men, which before I concluded
had been swallowed up in the ocean after they had left
their ship, that had struck upon the rocks of my
kingdom; and after escaping the sury of the deep,
landed upon the wild shore, and committed themselves
to the sury of those devouring Indians. Th*
The manner of their. cruelties to one another, which
consequently, as I thought, must be acted with greater
barbarity to strangers, created a great admiration witlv-
in me, and made me still more curious to ask Friday
concerning them: He told me, he was sure they lived
still there, having resided among them above four
years, and the savages gave them victuals to live
upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence.proceeded
all this good-nature and generosity? How came it to
pass that they did not kill and eat them to please their
devouring appetites, and occasion so splendid an En-
tertainment among them? No no, said Friday, they
not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em; by which I
understood there was a truce between them. And then
I had a more favourable opinion of the Indians, upon.
Friday's uttering these words; my nation, t'other na-
tion, no eat mans, but when mans make war fight;.
as tho' he had said, that neither those of his king^
dom, nor any other nadon that he knew of, ever eat
their fellow-creatures, out such whom their law of"
arms allowed to be devoured; and they were those
miserable captives, whose great misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
upon thctop.of a hill,. on the east side of the island,
whence i had once before beheld the continent of.
America. I could not tell immediately what was the
matter, fpr suddenly Friday fell a jumping and dancing
as if he had been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of his behaviour, O joy!. said he, 0 glad I
Ihtrstjee ?ny country, there my nation^ there live .white
mans allgetlter. And indeed such a rapturous fense cf:"
pleasure appeared in his countenance, that his eyes
had an uncommon sparkiing ^nd brightness, and such
a strange eagerness, as if he hue. a longing desire to
be in his own country again; and aiis new observa*
lion.which I had, made ma not so well satisfied with
Pf.
r r4r ]
my man Friday as before; for by this appearance I
made no dispute, but thr it. if he could get back thither
again, he would not only be unmindsul of what reli-
gion I had taught him, but likewise of the great obli-
gation that he owed me for his wondersul deliverance:
nay, that he would not only inform his countrymen
of me, but accompany hundreds of them to my king-
dom, and make me a miserable sacrifice like those un-
happy wretches taken in battle
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these cruel
and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I wronged
the poor creature very much, who was quite of a con-
trary temper; and had he that discerning acutenessr
^wHich many Europeans have, he would have perceived
my coldness and indifference, and also have been very
much concerned upon this account: For as I was now
more circumspect, I had much lessened my kindness
and familiarity with him: And while this jealousy
continued, I used that artsul way (now too. much in
fashion to occasion strife and dissension) of pumping
him daily, thereby to discover whether he was deceit-
sul in his thoughts and inclinations: But certainly. Ha.
had nothing in him but what was consistent with the
best principles, both as a religious christian and grate-
sul friend; and indeed I found every thing he said was
so ingenuous and innocent, that I had noroom for suf.*
picion, and, in spite of all uneasiness v he not only made
me entirely his own again, but also caused me much
to lament that I ever conceived one ill though t of him.
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather being so hazy at sea that I could;
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you.
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation,. among your old friends and acquaintance?
Yes. said he, me much O glad to bt at. my own nation.
And what would you do there', Friday ? said I, would
you turn wild again, eat man's sksb, and be a savage
you. was formerly? tfo no, (answered he, sull of
concern.
concern, and shaking his head) Friday naiv tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-fejh, milk, no eat man again. But sure-
ly replied I, if you should offer to do all this, they
will kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such
instruction, may eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, no, they no kill me, they 'willing lowe
learn; that is, that they would be very Willing to learn
adding withal, that they had learn much of tlie bearded
mam that come in the boat. Will you go back again:
Friday f said I. He smiled at that, and told me that
he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will make a
Canoe for you; yes Majler, said he, me go if you go,
me no go if you flay. I go, Friday! said I, why would
you have them eat me up, and devour your. kind mas-
ter? No no, said he, me make they no eat majler, me
maie they mueh love you; that is, he would tell them
how I had slain his enemies. and thereby saved his life,.
for which reason he would make them love me: And
then he related to me, as well as he was able, how
exceeding kind those of his nation were to the white,-
or bearded men as he called them, who in their great
calamity, were. driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts,
if possible, to join these white bearded men, who un-'
doudtedly were Spainiards or Portuguese: For (thought
I) it must be certainly a bettei and laser way to escape
when there is a good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles osf the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Fnday and 1 being.
at work as usual, at the s.ime time diverting ourselves
with various difeourics, I told him I hid a boat which.
I would bestow upon him, whenever he pkised to re-.
turn to his own nation : And, to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the other
lide of the island where my frigate lay, and then tak-
'.. t 1+3 1
Ing it from under the water (for I always kept it sunk
for sear of a discovery) we both went into it, to fee
how it would manage such an expedition.
Really never could any be more d jxterous in rowing
than my faithsul servant, making the boat go as fast
again as I could. Well now, Friday, (said' I) shall
.we go to your so much desired nation? But instead of
meeting with that chearsulness I expected, he looked
very dull and melancholy at my faying so; which in-
deed at sirst surprized me, till he made me sensible, thar
his concern was about the boat's being too small'
go so far a voyage. Upon which I let him understand
I had a much bigger; and accordingly the next day
went to the place where the first boat lay which I hat'
made, when all the strength I had, or art could use,
failed me in my attempt to get it into the water; but
now, it having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while, it be-
came in a manner rotten. My man told me, that such
a boat would do very well for the purpose; sufficient
to carry enough vittle, dring, bread, for that was his
manner of talking. In short, my mind being strong-
ly fixed upon my design of going over with him to
. the continent, I very plainly told him that we would
both go and make a boat sull as big, and more pro-
portionable than that, wherein he might safely return
to his own nation.
These words I observed made Friday look so very
pensive, that I thought he would have fallen at my feet.
: It was sometime before he would speak a word, which
made me ask him what was the matter with him? He
replied, in a very soft and moving tone, what has poor*.
Friday done ? Why are you angry mad with poor servant?
What me done^ O, what me done? Friday, said I, you
never yet have offended me, what makes you think I
am angry with you, when I am not angry at all? You
no angry, no angry said he several times, if you be no
angry^why den send Friday over great water to my own
nation?
nations Why surely, Friday, answered I, did not yen
wish to be there, when from a mountain you beheld
.the place where you was born; and is it not to satisfy
your defires that I am willing to give you leave to re-
turn thither? Yes yes, said Friday, me wijh be there furl
'nough, but me den wijhmajler then too; no wist) Friday
there, no master there. In short, he could not endure
the thoughts of going there without me. I go there,
Friday! said I, what shall I do there ?—-He answered
.very quickly, O majlcr, you do great deal much good,
you teach ail de 'wild mans to be good tame mans, you
learn t'<em to be sober, live good life, to know God, and
fray God. Alas! poor Friday, laid I, what can I do
against their Priests of Benamuckee, or indea what good
can I make jour Nation sensible of, when! myself am
tut a poor ignorant man? No, no, majlcr, said he, you
ibe no ignorant, you teachee me good, you teacbee them good.
You shall go without me Friday, said I, for I don't
<are to accompany you thither : I would rather live in
this Solitude, than to venture among such inhuman
iSavages. Go your way, since you delire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.
Never was any Creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at these Words, Go me away, leave Mas-
ter away I said he, after a long Silence. No, no, Fri-
day die, Friday net live majlcr gone! as tho' he had
said, I neither can nor will live if my master fends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
.strong Ties of Friendship, which many times surpass
those of Consanguinity: For often we find a great
disagreement among kindred; and when there is any
seeming Regard for each other, 'tis very seldom true,
and scarce ever lasting, if powersul interest does not
bear the sway; and that alone is often the occasion
of the greatest hatred in the World; which is to de-
fire the death of parents and relations, for the fake
.of enjoying their fortunes: But hej:e was no such
thing between my servant and me; instead of which,
there
tTiere was nothing but gratitude, and the sincerest k*ve:
He found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter : Not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a
kind loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or out
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his soul ; and therefore no wonder was it, that-
such an innocent creature, long .since divested of hrs
former natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
.concern at so cruel. a seperation from me, which
pierced him to the very fcul$ and made him .defire
even to die rather than live without me.
Aster I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he fliould beat his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all immagina-
ble consusion, when immediately running to one of
his hatchets, which he used to wear as a most defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
sull that he could scarce speak. Friday, said I, what
is it you mean? What must I do with this? Only kill
Friday, said he, Friday no care live long. But what
must skill you for replied I again. Ab! dear. Ma/lets
what make ycu Friday save from eat a me up± jb"te*p ling
Friday, make Friday love God, and not lovesi<?i«unui:-
kee; and now Friday send away, never see Friday'tftorc f
As tho' the poor creature had said, Alas 1 my deaa'ft,
kindest Master, how comes it to pass that after having
ventured your precious life to save me from theNJ;iws
of devouring cannibles, like myself; after such a tender
regard to provide for me such comfortable nourishment,
and continuing so long a kind Master, and most sincere
friend; and after making me forsake the false notion
of an Indian deity, and worship theS»£c God in spirit
and jn truth: After all this, I fay, how comes it
.now,, that you are willing to fend me away to my for-
mer course of living, by which means undoubtedly we
shall be dead to each other; but greater must be my
misfortune, that I shall never behold the best friend
I have in tins world any more! And this certainly, tho'
N he
ihe could not express himself so sully, must be his sen-
timents; for the tearsran down his cheeks in such a
plentisul manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
.weeping also, when I beheld the poor creatures affec-
tion: So that I was forced ta comfort him in the belt
.manner, which I did by telling him, if he was content
to abide with me, I should he ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he said, O mas-
ter, me not tare be in my nation, .leave you here; me desire
.my nation learn good,' that all; meaning that his defire
Was for the conversion of that barbarous people.
But as I have no apostolic miffion, nor arty concern
ahout their salvation; so I had neither the least inten-
tion or defire of undertaking it: and the strength of
my inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly
from my late disceurse with Friday about those seven-
teen white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the barbarian coast, whom I designed to join with, as
a surer means to/urrher our escape. To which in-
tent my man and I went to search for a proper tree to
fell, whereof we might make a large periagua or ca-
~noe, to undertake the voyage: And indeed we need
not be long in finding one fit for our purpose, there
being wood enough in the island to have built a fleet
of large vessels; but the thing we principally want-
ed was, to get one so near the water that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit so hor-
rid a mistake as I had done once many years before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgement in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitched upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. To this day I
cannot tell the name of the tree I cut it from, nor
describe it any other way, then only by saying, that it
is very like what we call fustk, or betwixt that and
the Nicarague wood, being much of the fame colour
and smell. But tho' my man exceeded me in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed
- him
Him a much Better and cleaner way to make a canoe"
th:ui ever he knew before: For he was for burning the.
hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat; but I thtn told him how we might do it with.
tools, learning him at the fame time how to use them,.
.which indeed he did very dexterously; so that in *
Month's labour, we finished it, making it very hand-
some by cutting the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this it took us sull a. fortnight before we
could get her into the water, which we did as it werev
inch by inch, upon. great rowlers: But when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with all the
ease imaginable..
As I was very well pleased, you may be fiire,.atthe
launching of this man of war of mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would.
managa her, turn her and paddle her along. Well,.
Friday, said I, what do you think of it now? D.o you.
think this will carry us over? Yes Master,me
venture over well, tho' great llow wind. But my de-
sign was. yet farther, which he was insensible of. and.
that was to. make a mast and fail, and to provide her
with an anchor and cable. As for a mss, that was
no difficult thing at all to procure; so I sixed upon a-
strait young cedar-tree, which 1 found near the place,.
there abounding great plenty of it in the island ; and
setting Friday to cut it down, I gave him particular
directions how to shape and order it 'y but as to the
-lail, that belonged to me only. I very well knew I
had some old ones, or pieces of falls, enough, which
Had lain six and twenty years by me; but not being.
caresul to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more; when I Came to
look over them, I sound them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pajns, and aVkward tedious stitching,
for want x>f needles, I finished at length a three-
corner'd agly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot-
N 2 tom,
tom,. and a little small sprit at the top,. like those"
TVhich our long boats use, and which I very well knew
how to manage; especially since it was like that
which I had in my patron's fishing-boat, when, with
thy boy Xury, I made my escape from the Barbary
shore.
It was near twomonthsTI think, before I completed
this work, that is, the rigging and fitting my mall and
fails; p.nd indeed they were nicely done, having made
a small stay, and a fail or foresail to it, to assist,. if
we should turn to the westward; and, which was still
more, I sixed a Rudder to the stern of her, to steer
with; and tho' I was but a very indifferent shipwright,.
yet, as I was sensible of the great usesulness and abso-
lute necessity of a thing like this, I applied myself
to it with such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design, but what with the many dull
contrivances 1 had about it, and the failure of many
things, it cost me as much pains in ordering, as io.
making the boat. Besides, when all this was done, I
had my man Friday to teach what belonged to its na-
vigation: For tho' he very well.understood how to pad-
dle a canoe along, yet he was an utter stranger to a
fail and a rudder, and was amazed when he law me
work the boat too and again in the sea by the same,
and how the sail gibbed and filled, this way, or that
way, as the course we sailed changed. After some
time, and a little use, I made all these things very
familiar to him, so that he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept in relation to the compass; and that I could make.
him understand but very little of. But as it happened.
there was seldom occasion for it, there being but little
cloudy weather, and scarce ever any fog in those parts
the stars were always visible in the night, and the shore
perspicuous by day, except in the rainy season, which
confined every one around them, to their habitations.
Thus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
my reign, captivity, which you please, (the last three
of which, blefled with the compa'ny of my man Friday
ought.
ou ght not to be reckoned) I kept the anniversary of my
landing here, with the same thanksulness to God, for
his tender mercies, as I did before; and certainly, as
I had a great cause for a thanksul acknowledgement
for my deliverance at first, I had much greater nOw;
for such singular and additional testimonies of the care
of Providence over me, in all my distresses, both of
body and mind, and the great hopes I had of being
effectually and speedily delivered; for I had a strong
impression upon my mind, that I should not be ano-
ther year in this island: But however I still continued
on withi.my husbandry, digging, planting and fencing
as usual: Gathering and curing my grapes, . and do-
ing all other things that were necessary for me.
And now the rainy season beginning to come upon
me, obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but
before this I brought my new vessel into the creek,
where I had'landed"my rafts from the ship, and hail-
ing her up to the shore, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then,
when.the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep up the water; by which
means she lay dry, as to the tide from the lea; and.
to keep the rain from her, we thatched her over, as.
it were, with boughs of trees, like a house; and so
waited for the months of November and Dtcember^ in.
which I designed to venture over the ocean..
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated by this new. designed .
adventure, that I daily prepared for the voyage. The
first thing I thought of was, to lay by a certain quan-
tity of provisions, as a sufficient store for such an ex-
pedition, intending in a week or fortnight's time to
open the dock.and' launch.out the boat for that pur.r
pose. But one morning, as I was very busy upon
something necessary for this occasion, I called Friday
to me, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see.if 'he
N 3 could.
could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we
commonly had once a week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for fake of the flesh. He had not
been long gone, but he came running back, as though.
he was pursued for life, and, as it were, flew over my
outward wall or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to enquire the reason of his precipitation, he
cries out, O Master! O dear Master! O sorrow, sor-
row! bad! 0 bad! Why, what's the matter, Fri-
day? said I. O yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
twe three canoes! two, three! Surely (thought I)
there must be six by my man's way of reckoning;
but on a stricter enquiry,. I found there was but three.
Well, Friday, said I, don't be terrified, I warrant you
we will not only defend ourselves against them, but
kill the most of those cruel savages. Buttho' I com-
forted him in the best manner I could, the poor crea-
ture trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with
him: O Master, says he, they come look Friday, cut
pieces Fridaj, eat a me up. Why, Friday, said I,
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great asyours. But since it is so, we must resolve
to sight for our lives: What fay you? can you sight,.
Friday ?' Yes, said he very faintly, me jhoot, me till
what I can, but there come great many number. That's
no matter, said I again, our guns will terrify those
that we do not kill: I am very willing to stand by you
till the last drop of my blood ; now tell me,.if yo.u will
tlo the like by me, and obey my orders in whatsoever
I command? Friday then answered, 0 Master, me lose
life for you, me die when you bid die. Thus conclud-
ing all questions concerning his fidelity, immediately
I fetched him a good dram of rum, (of which I had
been a very good husband) and gave it him to com-
fort his heart. After he had drank it, I ordered him
to take the two fowling-pieces, which we always car-
ried, and load them with large swan shot as big as
small
5 w 3
small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each, charging my two pistols each with a brace, I
h ung my great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most certain weapon
of defence. ...
Thus prepared, I thought, as well as any Knight-
.errant that ever handled a sword and spear, I took
my perspective glass, and went up to the side of the
hill,. to fee what I could discover; and I perceived
very soon, by my glass, that there was one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon the three poor human bodies, a thing which
by this time I had observed was very common with
them. From hence I also remarked, that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came very close to the sea. And
then it was my soul was filled with indignation and
abhorrence of such inhuman wretches, that put a
period to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before. But, descend-
ing from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and
kill them all; asking him again in the same breath, if
he would stand by me? When by this time being re-
covered from his fright, and his spirit much chcared
with the dram I had given him, he was very pleasant,
yet seriously telling me, as he did before, ' when I bid
die, he would die.'
And now it was, that having sixed my resolution
in so strong a manner, that nothing could divest my
breastifrom its uncommon sury, I immediately divided
the arms already charged between us. To my man
Friday, I gave a pistol to stick in his girdle, with three
guns upon his shoulder, a weight too great I confess
to
f r5i 1 t _
to bear; but what must a poor Kingdoj who had but
one soldier in the world? But to shew I made him
bear no more than what I would lay on; myself, I stuck
the other. pistol in my girdle, and the three guns up-
on my shoulders, nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's burthen, a small bottle of rum, which
.soon was lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of ar>-
mour, yet, like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battle, when
the pieces were discharged. And now my orders be-
ing to be obeyed, I charged.Friday to keep close behind
.me, and not to stir, orshoot, or attempt any thing till.
I commanded him; and, in the interim, not to speak
so much as one word. It was in this order I fetched
a compass to my right hand, of near a mile, as well;
to get over the creek, as to attain the wood; and by
this I thought to comeywithin shot of them before I
could be discerned, as! found by my glass, was no.
.difficult thing to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of man$.
even in our greatest sury, and strongest inclination ;.
for while I was taking this march, my resolutions be-
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches ; but these
reflections occurred to my thoughts, as, what power
was I commfssioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people who had neither done, nor intended
. to do me any wrong ; They were innocent in particular
as to me; and their barbarous custom was not only
their misfortune, but a sign that God had left them in
the most immense stupidity; but yet did not appoint
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his righteous judgments ; that on the con-
trary, whenever he thought fit, he would take ven-
geance on them himself, and punish them in a national
way, according to their national crimes ; but this was
ftothing
.nothing at all to me, who had no concerns with them.
Indeed my man Friday might justify himself, because
they were his declared enemies, of that very fame na-
tion that went to sacrisice him before; and indeed it
was lawsul for him to attack them, which I could not
fay was so in. respect to me. So warmly did these
things press upon my thoughts all the way I wens,
fchat I only resolved to place myself so, as to behold
their bloody entertainment, without falling upon them,
except something, more than ordinary, by God's spe-
cial direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus'sixed in my resolution, I entered into the thick
.wood (my man Friday following me close behind)
.when, with all possible wariness and filence, I marched
till I came to the skirt of it, on that side which was
the nearest to them ; for only that one end of the wood
interposed between me and them. Upon which I called
verylsoftly to Friday, and shewed him a great tree,
that was just at the corner. of the wood, I ordered him
to repair thither, and bring me ward, if he could
plainlypexceive their actions: Accordingly, hedid as I
commanded him, and came back with this melancholy
story, that they were all about their fire, .eating th#
flesh. of one of their prisoners; and that another lay
bioundupon the sand, a little distant from them, which
they designed tp be their next sacrifice; and this, he.
told me, was not one of their nation, but one of those
very bearded men, who was driven by a storm. into.
th.eir country, and whom he had so often talked to
rri'e about. You may be sure, that upon hearing this,
my soul was ready to sink within me; when as-
cending up into a tree,' I saw plainly by my glass,
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his. hands. and feet tied with flags, or things
resembling rushes, being covered with cloaths, and
seemed to be a European. From the; tree where I took
this prospect, I perceived another tree, and a thicket
beyond it, about fifty yards nearer *> them, than
where I was, whichT by taking a small circle round",.I
might come at undiscovered, and then I should be
within half a shot of these devourers. And this consi-
deration alone, to be more perfectly revenged upon
them, made me with-hold my passion, though I was
enraged to the highest degree imaginable; when going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree
and then I ascended a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance from us, and there I had a
full view of these creatures, and I could perceive all
their action's.
Such a sight did then appearr as obliged me not. to.
lose a moment's time. There were no less than nine-
teen of these dreadsul wretches, fat upon the ground',
close huddled together, expressing all the delight ima-
ginable at so barbarous an entertainment; and they
had just sentthe other two to murder this pooruhhap-
py Chrijtian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to
their fire ; for they were just then going to untie the
bands from his feet, in order for death. as fetters are
knocked osf from the feet of malefactors before they
go to the place of execution.. Hereupon immediately
turning to my man, now, Friday, said I, mind what
I fay, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you fee me do.
All which he promising he would perform, I set down.
one of my muskets and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the fame by his ; and with the
other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like : Are you ready ? said L. Yes,. Master,
said he. Why then fire at them, said I $.and that very
moment I gave fire likewise.
''For my part, I killed one, and woundedtwo; butmy
man Friday takir.g his aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three more. You may be sure they
wercin a dreadsul consternation, at such anunexpected
disaster ; and those who yet had escaped our penetrat-
ing shot, imdtediately jumped upon their' feet, but
were. in such consusion,. that they knew not which
way
i I *S5 3v
"\vay to run or look, not knowing from whence their
destruction came. We then threw down our pieces;
and took up others, giving a second dreadsul volley; but
sis they were loaded only with swan-shot, or small
pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them fall; bur
ib many were wounded, that they run yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now Friday^
said I, ^y down your piece, and take up the musket.
and follow me. He did so, with great courage, when
shewing ourselves to the savages, we gave a grea*
shout, and made directly to the ppor victim, wfi.;
.\Vouldhave been sacrisiced, had not pur first fire obligi;
their butchers with three others, to jump into a caooe.
By my order, Friday fired at theth, at which shot I
thought he killed them all, by reason of their falling to
the bottom of the boat; however' he killed two, and
mortally wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the
flags that tic ihthe hands and feet bf the poor creature,
and lifting him up asked him in the Partugueze tongue,
TVhat he was? He answered me in Latin, Chrijlianus;
hut so very weak and faint, that he could scarce stand
.dr speak'. Immediately I gave him a dram, and a piece
of tread to cherish him, and asked him what coun-
tryman he was? He said Espanioia, and then uttered
all the thanksulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Seignior (sard I, with as much Spanijh as I was master
of) let us talk afterwards, but sight now; here take
this sword and pistol, and do what you can. And in-
deed he did so with such courage and intrepidity, that
he cut two of them to pieces in an instant, (the sa-
vages not having the power to fly for their lives.) I
ordered Friday to run for those pieces we had left at the
tree, which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
tho'the former W3s as brave as could ie expected,
.having twice wounded his enemy in the head; yet,
being
f 156 ]
being faint, the Indian had thrown him upon the
ground, and was wresting my sword out of his hand,
which the Spaniard very wifely quitting; drew out his
pistol, and shot him through the body, before I could
come near him, who was running to his assistance. As
to Friday he pursued the flying wretches with his
hatchet, dispatching three, but the rest were too nimble
for him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-
pieces, wounded two, who running into the wood,
'Friday pursued and killed one; but the other, notwith-
standing his'wounds, plunged himself into the sea,
and swam to those two who were left in the canoe,
which with one wounded, were all that escaped out
of one and twenty. The account is as follows:
Killed at tin first jhot 7
from the tree 3 .*
At the second Jhot 2
By Friday in the boat 2
Ditto, of those firjl 1
wounded J
Ditto, in the wood 1
By the Spaniard 3
Killed, being fallen of\
their wounds i
Escaped in the boat, ~>
whereof one Wound- f
ed, if not jlain J
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuing
them: and indeed I was no less anxious about their
escape, left, after the news had been carried to their
people, they shoirtd return in multitudes, and destroy
us. Ss being resolved to pursue them, Ijumped into
pne of their canoes, and bid Friday to follow me; but
110 sooner was I in, when to my surprize, I found
another poor creature bound hand and foot for the
slaughter, just as the Spaniard bad been, with very
little life in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up, but he could neither stand
nor speak, but groaned piteoufly, thinking he was on-
ly unbound in order to be (lain. Hereupon I bid Fri-
day speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance;"
when
when pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch
drink a dram; which, with the joysul news he had
received, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the;
boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,
and looked more sully in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to perceive his uncommon transports
of joy; for he kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced,
fung, then cried again, .wrung his hands, beat his
face and head, then sung and jumped about .again,
I.ike a distracted creature; so that it was a great while
before I could make him speak to me, or tell me What
was the matter with him; but, when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he tcld me, it was his
father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee the dutisul
and tender affections this poor savage had to his aged
parent. He would sit down by him in the boat, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bo-
som half an hour together to nourish it; then he took:
his arms and ankles, which were stiff and numbed
with binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands 5 by which means, perceiving what the cafe
was, I gave him some rum, which proved of great
benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages had
gotten almost out of light; and happy it was we did
not pursue them; for there arose from the north-west,
which continued all night long, such a violent storm,
that I could not suppose otherwise, but that they were
all drowned. Aftar this I called Friday to me, and
asked him, if he had given his father any bread! He
shook his head, and said, None, net one bit^ ?ne eat a up
all; Co I gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch
I carried for this end. I likewise gave him adram for
himself, and two or three bunches of raisins for his
father. Both these he carried to him, for he would
make him drink the dram to comfort him. Away he
then runs out of the boat as if he was bewitched, with
O such
such an extraordinary swiftness, that he was out of
fight as it were in an instant; but at his return I per-
ceived him slacken his pace, because he had something
in his hand: And this 1 found to be, as he approached
nearer, an earthen jug to bring his father some water
in, with two more cakes of bread, which he delivered
into my hands. Being very thirsty myself, I drank
fome of the water, of which, when his father had
drank sufficiently, it more revived his spirits, than all
.4im the tum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to car-
ry the Spaniard one of the cakes and some water, who
was reposing himself upon a green place under the
shade of a tree, but so weak that though he exerted
himself, he could not stand upon his feet. Upon
which I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his ankles
with rum as he did his father's, But every minute
he was employed in this, he would cast a wishsul eye
towards the boat, where he left his father sitting;
when suddenly, not being to be seen, he flew like
.lightning to him; and finding he only laid himself
down to ease his limbs, he returned back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday
help him, and lead him to the boat, in order to be
conveyed to my dwelling, where I would take care of
him: Upon which Friday made nothing to take him
upon his back, and so carried him to The canoe, setting
him close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along the
shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew:
very hard too; and having brought them safe to the
creek, away he runs to fetch the other canoe, which
he brought to the creek almost as soon as I got to it
by land; when wafting me over, he took our new
fuests out of the boat. But so weak were they, that
was forced to make a kind of hand-barrow; and when
I came to my castle, not being willing to make an
entrance into my wall, we made them a handsome
tent, covered with old sails and boughs of trees,
making
making two good beds of rice-straw, with blanket*
to lie upon and cover them. Thus, like an absolute
King, over subjects who owed their lives unto me, I
thought myself very remarkable, especially considering
I had three religions in my kingdom, my man Friday.
being a Protestant, his father a Pagan, and theSpamard"
a Papist ; but I gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provision for my poor weak subjects, I or-
dered" Friday to kill me a yearling goat, which when
be had done, I cutoff the hinder quarters, and chop-
ing it into small pieces, boiled and stcWed it, putting
barley and.rice into the broth. This I carried into
their tent, set a table, dined with them myself, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke the
language of the savages pretty well. After dinner I
ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from the
field of battle, and the next day to bury the dead
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his father, whe*.
ther he thought those savages had escaped the late
storm in their canoe; and if so, whether they would
not return with a power too great for us to resist? He
answered, that he thought it impossible they should cut-
live the storm, or if they were driven southwardly, they
would come to a land where they would as certainly
be devoured, as if they were drowned in the sea. And
suppose they had attained their own country, the
strangeness of their bloody and fatal attack, would
make them teil their people,. that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of"
man, but by two heavenly spirits (meaning Friday.
and me) who were sent from above to destroy them:
And this, he said, he knew, because he heard them.
say the same to one another. And indeed he was in the
righton't; for I have heard since, that these four men
gave out, that whoever went to that inchanted island,
would be destroyed by fire from the Gods.
^No canoes appearing some time afte r, as I expected,
O 2 my
ray apprehensions ceased; instead of which my for-
mer thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday's father assured me I should have good usage
in his country. As to the Spaniard, he told me, that
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who
had been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that tough they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions and
other necessaries. When I asked him about the par-
ticulars of his' voyage, he answered, that their ship
was bound from Aio de la Plata to the Havanna, that
when the ship was lost, only five men perished in the
ocean, the rest, having saved themselves in the boat;
were now landed on the main continent. " And what
do they intend to do there? said I. He replied, they
had concerted meysures to escape hy building them a
vessel, but they had neither tools or provisions; so
that all their designs came to nothing. Supposing,
said I, I should make them a proposal, and invite
them here, would they not carry me prisoner to Nev>
Spain? He answered, No; for he knew them to be
such honest men as would scorn to act such inhuman
baseness to their deliverer: That, if I pleased, hd and
the old savage would go over to them, talk with them
about it, and bring me an answer; that they should
all swear fidelity to me as their leader, upon the holy
sacraments; and that for his part he would not only
do the fame, but stand by me to the last drop of his
blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose: But when every thing was ready, the Spaniard
raised an objection which carried a great deal of
weight in it. You knew, Sir, said he, that being some
time with you, J cannot but be sensible of your Jlock of
rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at prcjer.t, but
net for them, jhould they ecme over presently; much less
to victual a vessel for an intended voyage. Want might
be as great an occasion for them to disagree and rebel,
as
as the Children of Israel did against God himself, when
they wanted bread in the wilderness,: And therefore my -
advice is to wait another harvejt, and, in the mean time,
cultivate and improve some more land, whereby we
may have plenty of provisions, in order to execute our
design.
This advice of the Spaniard! approved of extreme-
ly, and so satissied was I of his sidelity, that I esteemed
him ever after. And thus we all four went to work
upon some more land, and against seed-time we had
got as much cured and trimmed up, as was susficient
to sow twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen'
jars of rice, which was in short all the seed we had
to spare. As we were 4 in number, and by this time.
all in good health, we feared not an hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us :. And while the corn
was growing, I pitched upon some trees fit to build
us a large vessel in cafe the Spaniards came over;
which being marked, I ordered Friday and his father
to cut them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my Privy Counsellor, to oversee and direct the
work. I likewise encreased my flocks of goats,. by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my enclosure: Nor did I neglect the grape-
season, but cured them as usual, though.I had such a
quantity now, as would have filled eighty barrels with.
raisins. And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, 'till. harvest.
came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it so
much, that from twenty-two barrels of barley, we.
threshed out two hundred and twenty, and the like
quantity of rice, susficient to victual any ship, to.
carry.me and all the Spaniards to any part of America..
Thus the principal objection being answered, by a
susficient stock of provision, I sent my. two ambassa-
dors over to the main, with. a regal. authority, to ad-
minister the oaths of allegiance and fidelity, and'
have an instrument signed under theit hands,.though I
.  . . O 3 never
never asked whether they had pen, .ink, or paper;
when giving each of them a musquet, eight charges
of powder and ball, and provision enough for eig*ht
days, they sailed away with a fair gale, on a day when
the moon was at sull.
Scarce a fortnight had past over my head, but im-
patient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which
was ushered in, by my man's coming running to me,
and calling aloud, Majler, Majler, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any danger,
out I jumps from my bed, puts on my cloaths, and
hurries thro' my little grove, when looking towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half
distant, standing in for the more, with the wind fair.
I beheld they did* not come from the side where the
land lay on, but from the southermost end os the
island: So these being none of the people we wanted, I
ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as I descended
from the mountain, which, with my ladder, I now as-
cended, in order to discover more sully what they were:
And now, with the help of my perspective glass, I
plainly perceived an Englijh ship, which I concluded
it to be, by the fashion of its long-boat, and which
filled me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
I cannot tell how to describe; and yet some secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from I know not
what cause, as tho' I had reason to be upon my guard.
And indeed I would have no man contemn the secret
hints and intimations of danger, which very often
are given, when he may imagine there is no possibility
of its being real : For had I not been warned by this
filent admonition, I had been in a worse station than
before, and perhaps inevitably ruined.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shore, as tho' they looked for a place where
they might conveniently land; and at last they ran their
koat on shore upon the beach, about half a mile dis-
tance,
tance, which proved so much the happier for me ; since
had they come into the creek, they had landed just at
my door, and might not only have forced me out of
my castle, but plundered me of all I had in the world.
Now I was sully convinced they were all Englijhmen^
three of which were unarmed and bound ; when im-
mediately the first four or five leaped on shore, and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of whom
I could perceive used the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the others, in
a lesser degree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday, (who was be-
low to ascend the mountain, and likewise view this
sight.' O Master, fays he to me, you see English mans
eat prisoners, as well as savage mans. And do you think
they will eat them, Friday? said I. Yes, said Friday,
they tat a all up. No, no, said I Friday, I am much
more concerned least they murder them; but as for
eating them up, that I am sure they never will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in not
having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but also that
I could not tome within shot of them unperceived,
(they having no fire-arms among them) and save these
three men, whom Ithought they were going to kill with
their swords. But some comfort it was to me, that
I perceived they were set at liberty to go where they
pleased, the rascally seamen scattering about as tho' they
had a mind to fee the place: And so long did they
negligently ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as
to leave the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect, for having drank
a little too much liquor, they fell fast afleep; but one
of them waking before the other, and perceiving the
boat too fast a-ground for his strength to remove it, he
halloo'd out to the rest, who made all possible expe-
tion to him: But, as Providence ordered it, all their
force was ineffectual to launch her, when I could hear
them
them speak one to another, Why, let her alone, Jack,
tan't ye, fhe'il sihat next tide; by .which words I was
fully confirmed that they were my own countrymen.
All this. while 1 lay very quiet, as being sully sensible,
}t could be no. less than ten hours before the boat
would be afloat, and then it would be so dark, as that
they could not eafily perceive me, by which means I
fliould be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: Not but that I prepared for my
defence before; yet as I had now another sort of ene-
mies to. combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two fuzees on my shoulders, and gave Friday
three muskets ; besides my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanging
by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark; but it being now two o'clock, in the
very heat of the day, the sailors vfrere all straggling into
the woods, and undoubtedly were lain down to sleep.
The three poor distressed creatures, too anxious to get
any repose, were however seated under the shade of
a great tree, about a quarter of a mile from me :i
Upon which, without any more ado, I approached to-
wards them, with my man following behind me, and
before I was perceived, I called. aloud to them in Spa-
nijh, TVhat are ye Gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great consusion,
and, beholding the strange sigure I made, they returned
no answer, but seemed as if they would fly from me.
Gentlemen, (said I, in Englijh) don't be afraid: Perhaps
you have a friend nearer you than you expeil. He must
be from Heaven, said one of them gravely, and pulling
off his hat; for we are past all help in this world. Æl
help is from Heaven, said I; but. Sir, as I have per-
'ceived every aclion between you. and those brutes, since
your
[ 165 r \
J'oyr landing, only inform me how to assist you, and I will
do it to the utmost of my power.
Ami talking with God or man (said her in melting
tears) Are you of human-kind, or an Angel! Sir,
said I, my poor habit may till you I am man, and an
Englishman, willing to assist you, having but this ser-
vant only: Here are arms and ammunition: Tell freely
your condition, can we serve you: The ftory, said he,
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near?
But, Sir, I was master of that ship, my men have
mutinyed, and it is a favour they have put my mate,
this passenger, and me, on snore, without murdering
us, tho' we expect nothing but to perish here. Areyoitr
Enemies gone? said I. No replied he, (pointing to a
thicket) there they lie, while my heart trembles, lest
having seen and heard us, they should murder us all.
Have they fire-arms? said I. They haVe but two
pieces, said he, one of which is left in the boat: He
tojd me there were two x enormous villains among
them, that were the authors of this mutiny, who if
they were killed or seized, might induce the rest tore-
turn to their obedience. Well, well said I, let us
retire farther under the covering of the woods; and
there it was I made these conditions with him :.
I. That while they stayed in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority; but be entirely con-
formable to my orders, and return me the arms, which
I should put into their hands.
II. That if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Friday and I our passage gratis to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
defire, I gave each of them a gun, with powder and
ball susficient, advising them to sire upon them as they
lay. The captain modestly said, That he was sorry to
kill them, tho' on the other hand, to let these villains
escape, who were the authors of his misery, might be
the ruin of us all. should they bring the ship's com-
pany upon us. Well, said I, do as you think sit: And
so accordingly fired, killing one of the Captain's chiefest
.enemies, and wounded the other,. who eagerly called
for assistance; but the captain, (who had reserved his
piece) coming up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late
to call for ajfiflance, you jhould rather cry to God to par-
don your villainy; so knocked him down with the stock
of his gun ;. Three others were also slightly wounded,
who, at my approach, cried out for mercy. This the
captain granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the sliip, which they
solemnly did; however I obliged the captain to keep
them bound. After which I serfs Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away the oars
and fail; when at their return, three men coming
back, and seeing their late distreis'd captain, now their
conqueror, submitted to be bound also. And then it
was, that having more liberty, I related the adven-
tures of my whole life, which he heard with a serious
and wondersul attention. After this, I carried him
and his two men into my little fortisied castle, shewed
them all my conveniences, and refreshed them with
such provisions as I could afford. Whenthiswasover,
we began to consider about regaining the ship. He said,
. that there were 26 hands on board, who knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy
and mutiny, would grow so very hardened, that it
would be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference indeed; but
something we did resolve on, and immediately put in
execution: For we heaved the boat upon the beach
so high, that she could not shoot off at high^water
mark, and broke a hole in her, not easily to be stop-
ped; and so all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged them to
fend another boat ashore, with ten men armed,
whose faces the captain plainly descried, the boat-
swain being the chief officer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage
(for I had perceived he was in concern) in the mean
while securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinel; but two others we took
into our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle. When the sailors land-
ed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they not
only halloo'd, but fired for their companions to hear,
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered; then they made as if they would return
to the ship; I could perceive the captain's c»unte-
nance change at this, till of a sudden three men were
ordered to look after the boat, while the other seven
leaped on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions : And indeed they came to the brow of the hill,
near my antidnt castle, from whence they could fee a
great way into the woods, and there shouting and
hallooing till tired and weary, at length seated them*.
selves under a spreading tree. My opinion was, that
nothing could be done till night, when I might use
some artifice to get them out of the boat: But of a
sudden they all started up, and made to the sea-side:
Hereupon I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to
go over the creek, and halloo as loud as they could,
and so, decoying them into the woods, come round
*o me again, And this i ndeed had its eftect; for they
followed the noise, till coming westward to the creek,
they called for their boat to carry them over, taking
one of the men out of her, and leaving two to lobk
after her, having fastened her to the stump. of a little
tree on shore. Hereupon immediately the captain
and our party, passing the creek out of their sight,
we surprized them both, by the captain's knocking
down one, and ordering the other to surrender on pain
of death, and who, being the honestest of them all,
sincerely joined with us. By this time it was pretty
late, when returning to their boat, which they found
a-ground in the creek, the tide out, and the men
gone; they ran about, wringing their hands, crying
it was an inchanted island, and that theysliould be all
murdered by spirits or devils. My men would wil-
lingly have fallen upon them, but 1 would not agree
to hazard any of our party, But to be more certain,
Friday and the captain crawled upon their hands and
feet, as near as possible; and when the boatswain
approached in sight, so eager was the captain, that he
fired and killed him on the spot; Friday wounded
the next man, and the third ran away. Hereupon, I
advanced with my whole army, and, it being dark, I
ordered the man we had surprized with the boat, to
call them by their names, and to parley with them.
Accordingly he called out aloud, Tom Smith! Tom
Smith! He answered, Who's that? Robinson! The
other answered, For God's fake, Tom, surrrender im-
mediately, or you are all dead men. Who must we
surrender to? says Smith. To our captain and fifty
nun here, who have iaken me prisoner, wounded Will.
Frye, and killed the boatswain. Shall we have quar-
ters then? said he. Hereupon the captain calls out,
You, Smith, you know my voice; surrender immediately,
and you jhall all have your lives granted, except Will.
Atkins. Hereupon Atkins cried out, What have I done,
captain, more than the rest, who have been as bad as me?
But that was a lie, for he was the person that laid
hold of Tiim, and bound him. However, he was or-
dered to submit to the Governor's mercy, for such
was I called. And so, laying down their arms, we
bound them all, and seized on their boat."
After this, the captain expostulated with them, tell-
ing them, that the Governor was an Englijkman, v/ho
might execute them there; but he thought they would
be sent to England, except Will. Atkins, who was or-
dered to prepare for death next morning. Hereupon
Atkins implored the captain to intercede for his life,
and the rest that they might not be sent to England.
Thus answered our project sor seising the ship. For
lending Atkins, and two of the worst, fast bour.d, to the
cave, and the rest being committed to my bower, I sent
the captain, to tamper with them, in the Governor's
name, offering them pardon, if they would assist him
in recovering the ship. Upon which they all promised
to stand by him till their last drop of blood; and
whoever acted treacherously should be hanged in chains
upon the beach. They were all released on these as-
surances; and then the captain repaired the other
boat, making his passenger captain, with four men
well armed; while his mate, himself,. and five men.
more, went in.the other. By midnight they came
within call of the ship, when the captain ordered Ro-
binson to hale her, and tell them that, with great dif-
ficulty, they had found the men at last. But while
they were discoursing, the captain, his mate, and the
rest entered, and knocked down the second mate and
carpenter, secured those thst were upon deck, by put-
ting them under hatches, while the other boat's
crew entered, and secured the forecastle; then broke
into the round-house, where the mate, after some
resistance, (hot the pirate captain through the head;
upon which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joysul signal
.was fired, which I heard with the greatest joy imagi.-
nable: Nor was it long before he brought the ship to
an anchor at the creek's mouth, when coming to me
unawares, There, fays he, my dearejl friend md deli-
verer, there is your jhip, and we are your servants; a
comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in his
arms, while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten-
derly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what we'
should do with the prisoners, two os which he thought
not safe to take on board. Hereupon, concerting with
the captain, I dressed myself in one of his suits, and
fending for them, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they would tarry
there, their lives should be spared ; if not, they should
be hanged at the. first port we came to. They agreed
to stay. Hereupon I told them my whole story, charg-
P ing
ing them to "be kind to the Spaniards that were expected1,
gave them all my arms, and informing them of* every
tiring necessary scr their subsistence, I and my man
Friday went on board. But the next morning two of
the men came swimming.to the ship's side, desiring
the captain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how barbarously
the others used them. Upon which I prevailed with
the captain to take them in, and being severely whip-
ped and pickled, they proved more honest for the su-
ture. And so I bid farewel to this island, carrying
along with me my money, parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap, setting sail Dec. 12, 1686, after twenty-
eight years, two months, and nineteen days residence,
that iaine day and month that I escaped from Satire,
landing in England, June 11, 1687, after thirty-five
years absence from my own country, which rendered
me altogether an utter stranger.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon after I went down to lorkjbir'c, w here
all my family were expired, except two sisters, and
?.f many of one of my brother's children. I found no
provision had been made scr me, they concluding I
had been long since dead; so that I was but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a great
kindness, by his report to the owners, how I had de-
livered their ship on the desolate island, upon which
they made me a present of 200I. sterling. I next went
to Lijhon, taking my man Friday with me, and arriv-
ing there in April, I met the Pcrtugae%« captain, who
took me on board on the African coast; but being an-
tient, he had left off the sea, and resigned all his busi-
ness to his son, who followed the Brajil trade. So
altered both of us were, that we did not know each
other at first, til] I discovered myself more sully to
him. After a few embraces, I begun to enquire after my
concerns, and then the old gentleman told me, that
it was nine years since he had been at B'rosil, where my
partner was then living, but my trustees were both
dead ; that it was his belief, I should have a good ac-
count of the product of my plantation ; that the ima-
gination of my being lost, had obliged my trustees t»
give an estimate of my share to the Procurator Fiscal,
who, in case of my not returning, had given one third
to the King, and the rest to the Monastry of St. Au-
gujline; but if I put in my claim, or any one for me,
it would be returned, except the yearly product, which
was given to the poor. I then desired him to tell me,
what improvement he thought had been made of my
plantation, and whether he imagined it was worth.
my while to look afeer it? He answered, he did not
know how much it was improved, but this he was cer-
tain of, that my partner was grown vastly rich upon
h's half of it; and that he had t>ce:i informed, that the
King had 200 moidores per annum, for his third part.
He added, that the survivors of my trustees were per-
sons of an ingenuous character ; that my partner could
witness my title,. my name being registered in the
country, by which means indisputably 1 should recover
considerable sums of money. But, answered 1, how
could my trustees dispose of my effects, when 1 made
yon only myheir? This, he said, w«s true, but there
being no affidavit mad;.. of my. death, he could not act
as an executor. However he had' ordered hi:. son,
(then at Brasil) to act by procuration upon my aa-
'count, and had taken postilion of my sugar-house,
having accounted himself for ei^ht years with my
partners and trustees for the profits, of which he
would give me a good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithsully in a.
fix days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after 1 had left th - place. And rhen he recounted
to me what misfortunes he had gone thro', which forced
my money out of his hands, to buy part in a new ship!
But (says he) you jh'allmi want', iakt this, nnd when my
H L Jen
son returns, every farthing jhall he paid you. Upon
which he put into my hand a purse of 150 moidores
in gold,' as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship in which his son was, and which he
offered as security for the remainder. But really
when I saw so much goodness, generosity, tender-
ness and real honesty, I had not the heart to accept it,
for fear he should straighten himself on my account.
'Tis true, said he, it may do so;. but the money is. yours,
not mine, and you may have the greate/i occasion for it.
However "I returned fifty of them, promising to give
him the other hundred, when I got my esfects in my
ljands, faying I designed to go myielf for that purpose.
But he told me, he could save me that trouble; and
so caused me to enter my name with a public notary,
as likewise my affidavit, with a procuration sixed to.
it; and he advised me to send in a letter to one of
his acquaintance, a merchant at Brastl; and indeed
nothing could be more faithsul and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months time I had a very faithsul
account of all my effects, what sums of money were
raised, what expended, and what remained for my
use: In a word, I found myself worth 4000I. ster-
ling, and iool. per annum. Norwas this all, for my
partner congratulated me upon my being alive,'telling
me how much my plantation Was improved, what ne-
groes were at work, and howmany Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation, de-
firing me to accept kindly some presents he had sent
me, which I found shewed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
faithsul captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores ; and not only forgiving him all he owed me, I
allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to Ehgland, I returned letters of thanks to the
Prior of Sit. Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the captain's
advice, I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England: .When,. as it hap-
pened, I got a young Englijly gentleman, a merchant's
"fon at Lijbon, to accompany me, together with two
.English and two Portuguese gentlemen; ib that with
a Portugexe servant,' an Englijh. sailor, and my man.
Friday, there were nine in number.
Thus, afmed and equipt, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when the summer decaying, we halted to
'Navarre, where we were informed that there was .
scarcely any passing, by reason of the prodigious quan-
tity of Snow; so that we were obliged to abide near.
twenty days at Psmpcluna, and at la.il to take a guide
to conduct us safe towards Thiulaase. And now twelve
other gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away our
guide led us by the frightsul mountains, and through
so" many intricate mazes and windings, that weinfcn-.
sibly past them, which, as we travelled along, ushered
.us to the prospect of the fruitsul and charming pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gajiogny.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical and
comical. ist, Our guide was encountered by three
.wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his horse,
and wounded him in three places: Upon which my
.man riding up to his assistance, shot one of them dead,
on which the others ran into the woods. But the plea-
santest adventure was, to fee my man attack the bear.
This creature, if let alone, will never meddle with
.you.;: And this my man Friday very well knew, and
-so begging leave of me in broken Englijh, he told us,
cpfc would make good laugh. Why, you filly fool, said I,
he'll eat you up at a mouthsul. Eatee me. up! replied
he, me eatee hi/n, and make much go:d lau^h. Upon
which. pulling off his boors, he claps on his pumjis,
and running after the monstrous boast,.and calls out,
that he wanted to speak with him; and then throwing
'stones on purpose to incense htm, the beast tur.:is about
.in a sury, and, .with prodigious strides, shuffles after
..' P. 3. . him.
him. But though he could not keep pace with Friday,
who made up to us as it were for help, yet, being an-
gry, You dog, said I, immediately take horse, and let us
Jhoot the creature. But he cried, Dear Majler, no jhoot,
me make you much laugh. And so he turned about,
making signs to follow, while the bear ran after him,
till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a minute,
leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor did the bear
make any difficulty of it, but, notwithstanding his
bulk, ascended like a cat. You must think I was
not a little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till we
rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted on the
oak, on the beginning of the fame branch to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear dare
not come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now, Majler,
.me make much laugh, me make de bear dance. Upon
which he fell a shaking the bough, which made the
creature lock behind him to see how he could retreat.
Then, as if the bear had understood his stammering
Englifl), Why you no come farther, Mr. Bear? said he.
Pray Mr. hear, come farther: And then indeed w«
all burst into laughter, especially when we perceived
Friday drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving
the beast to make the best of his way down the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to kill
him, Friday cried out, O dear Majler, no jhoot; me
jhoot by and by; when taking up the gun, Me no Jhoot
yet, said he, me make once more much laugh. And ac-
cordingly he was as good as his word, for the crea-
ture descending backwards from the tree very leisurtly,
before he could lay one foot on the ground, Friday
shot him through the ear stone-dead, and looking to
see if we were pleased, burst out into a hearty laugh,
saying, So we ki.'l bear in my country; not with gun,
hut much long arrow. Thus ended our diversion, to
our great satisfaction, especially in a place where the
terrible howlings struck us with continual terror. But
the snows now growing very deep, particularly on the
mountains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to.
seek for. sustenance in the villages, where coming by
surprize on the country people, killed several of them,
besides a great number of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous
place to pass by; and if there were any more wolves
in.the.country, there we should sind them. This was
a small plain, encompassed with woods, to get through
a long lane, to the,village where we were to lodge.
When we entered the wood the sun was within half
an hour of setting; and a little after it was set, we came
into the plain, which was not above two surlongs over,
and then we saw five great wolves cross the road,
without taking notice of us, and so swift as tho' they
were pursuing aster their prey. Hereupou our guide,
believing there were more coming, defired us to be
upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes were very
circumspect, till about a league farther we saw a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
cass. . My man Friday fain would have fired at them,
but I would not permit him: Nor had we gone half
over the plain, but we heard dreadsul howlings in a
wood on our left, whan presently we saw an hundred
. c^ome up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner; and then! ordered that every other
man should fire, that those who did not might be ready
to give a second yoUey, mould they advance upon us;
and (hen every man to make use of his pistols. But
there was no necessity for this; for the enemy being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire; four of them
were shot dead, and several others being wounded,
went bleeding away, as we could very plainly discover
by the snow, And now remembering what had been
often told me, that such was the majesty of a man's
voice, as to strike terror even into the fiercest crea-
tures, I ordered all our companions to holloo as loud
as possible: And in this notion 1 was not altogether
mistaken; for they immediately turned about upon the.
first halloo, and began to.retire: Upon which, or-
dering a second volley in their rear, they galloped in-
to the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way: But we had not rode far before we were obliged
to put ourselves in a posture of defence as before,
being alarmed with a very dreadsul noise in the same
wood on bur left hand, the same way as we were to-
pass, only that it was at some distance from us. By
this time the darksome. clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the light growing very dusky, made.
it so much the more to our disadvantage: But the
roise still encreasmg more, we were sully assured, that
it was the howling and yelling of those ravenous
creatures; when presently three troops of wolves,
oh our front, appeared to our sight, as tho' all these
companions had a design to surround us, and devour
us in spite 9s fate. But as they did not fall upon us
immediately, we proceeded 011 our journey in the
swiftest manner that the v ds would permit our horses,
which was only a large trot. It was in this manner
we travelled, till such time as we discovered another
wood, and had the prospect of its entrance, through.
which were to pass at the farthest side of the plain.
But surely none can express the tenor we were in,
when approaching the lane, we perceived a consused
number of the fiercest wolves standing, and as it were,
guarding its entrance. Nor were we long in this
amazement, before another occasion of horrer pre-
sented itself: For suddenly we heard the report of .a
gun at another opening into the wood ; and looking
that way, out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying
with the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixften
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to devour
the poor creature: And unquestionably they did so,
."* . alter
aster they had run him down, not being capable to hold
out that swiftness with which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcasses of two
men and another horse, mangled 'and torn by these
devouring wolves: And undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun, which we
had heard, for the piece lay by him; but alas ! most
of the upper part of his body and his head was en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
yWhat course to take, whether to proceed or retreat,
we could not tell; but it was not long before.the
wolves themselves made us come to a resolution : For.
such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom ex-
pected their prey, that were our bodies to be divided
among them, there would not be half a mouthsul
a-piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us, that
but a little way from the entrance, there lay some very
large timber trees, which I supposed had been cut
down and lay there for carriage, among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us for a breast-work;
when, desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangle,
or three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre,
the only place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was a more surious charge than
what the wolves made upon us in this place ; and the
sight of the horses, which was the principal prey they
aimed at, provoked their hunger, and added to their
natural fierceness. They came on us with a most
dreadsul noise, that made the woods ring again, a»*d
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I ordered
every other man to fire as before directed ; and indeed
so well did they take their aim, that they killed several
of the wolves at the first volley; but still we were
obliged to keep a continual firing, by reason they
came on like devils, pushing one another with the
greatest sury. But our second volley something
abated their courage; when stopping a little, we hoped
they .
they would have made the best of their way, however
it did not prove so, for others made a new attempt
upon us: And tho' in four firings we killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, laming twice as many ; yet they
came on several times successively, as though they va-
lued not their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last snot too suddenly:
and therefore called my other servant, and giving him
.a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train quite
along the timber, which he did, while Friday was
charging my suzee and his own, with the greatest
dexterity. By this time the wolves coming up the
timber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorched
and terrified them, that some fell down, and others
jumped in among us with the strength and terror of
the flame, but these we immediately dispatched^ when
all the rest, frightened with the light, which the dark-
some night caused to appear more dreadsul, began at
length to retire: Upon which, ordering our last pis-
tols to be fired at once, giving at the fame time a
great shout, the wolves were obliged to have recourse'
to their swiftness by turning tail ; and then we sillied
out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces
with our swords, which obliged them to howl La-
mentably, to the terror of their fellow devourers, who
resigned to us the sield, as victorious conquerors.
And, indeed, I question whether Alexander, King of
Macedtm, in any of his conquests, had more occasion
for triumph than we had ; for he was backed by nu-.
merous captains and soldiers of the greatest courage,
constancy, and resolution; whereas pur little army
was obliged to combat a legion of devils,'as it wcre>
worse than canibals', who, had they flain us, would
have sacrificed us the fame moment, to satisfy their
voracious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives from
their sury. We still had a league to go farther,
when,
wnen, as we went, our tars were saluted with'their
most unwelcome howling?, expecting every moment
another attack. But, in iu. hour's time, we arrived
"safe at the town where we were "to lodge; and here we
found the plao; strictly guarded, and ail in terrible
Consusion, as well they might, by reason of the bears
and wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged so take a new guide, by reason the
other fell very bad of his wounds, which he had re-
ceived, as before-mentioned. After *w e had .reached
Thoulouse, we came into a warm, pleasant, and fruit-
fulxountry, not infested with wolves, nor any fort
of ravenous creatures: And when we told our story
there, they much blamed our guide, for conducting
us through the forest at the foot of the mountains,
and in such a sevare leason, when the snow obliged
them to seek for shelter in the woods. When we
informed them in what manner we placed ourselves,
and the horses in the centre, then they exceedingly
reprehended us, and told us, it was an hundred to
one but we had all been destroyed; for that it was
the sight of the horses, their so much desired prey,
made the wolves more raging'.y surious than they
would have been; which was evident, by their being
at other times really afraid of a gun but then, be-
ing exceedingly hungry and surious upon that account,
their eagerness to come at the horses made them in-
sensible of their danger; .and that if we had not by
a continual sire, and at last, by the cunning strata-
gem of the train of powder, got the power over them,
it had been great odds if their number had not over-
powered us: Besides, it was a great mercy we alighted
from our horses, and fought them with that courage
and conduct, which, had we failed to do, every man
of us, with our beasts, had been devoured. And in-
deed this was nothing but truth; for, never in my
life was I so sensible of danger, as when 300 di.vi)s
came roaring upon us; to lhun whose unwelcome
company,
L i8o I
company, if I was sure to meet a storm every week, I
woold rather go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through Frame to take notice of, since other travellers
cf greater learning and ingenuity, have given a more
ample account, than my pen is able to set forth.
From Thoulouse I travelled to Parts, from thence to
Calais, where I rook stripping, and.landed at Dover
the 14th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus came to the centre of my travels, I soon dis-
covered my new-found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The good
ancient widow, my only Privy-Counsellor, thought
no pains or care too great to procure my advantage;
nor had I ever occasion to blame her sidelity, which
drew from me. an ample reward. I was for leaving
my effects in her hands, intending to set out for Lis-
bon, and so to the Brasth ; but as in the desolate Island
I had some doubts about the Romish religion, so I
knew there was little encouragement to settle there,
without I would apostatize from the orthodox faith,
or live in continual fear ofthe inquisition. Upon this
account I resolved to sell my plantation, and to this
intent I wrote to my old friend at Lijbon, who return-
ed me an answer, to my great satisfaction, which was,
that he could readily fell it there: However, if Ithought
it convenient to give him liberty to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, residing at the Brasils, who consequently un-
derstood its intrinsic value, having lived just upon the
soot, and who I was sensible were very rich, and there-
fore might be the more willing to purchase it; he did
not in the least doubt, but I should make 4 »r 5000
pieces of eight more of it, than I should do if I dis-
posed of it anv other manner whatsoever.
You may be lure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I sent
.him an order to offer it unto them, which he accord-
ingly did: So that about eight months after, thesoip
being
in that time returned, he gave me a satisfactory ac-
count that they not only willingly accepted the offer,
but that they had also remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight, to a correspondent of their own at
Lijbon, in order to pay for its purchase.
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument of
sale, according to form, which they had sent from
Lijbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
haying sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores per annum; which
I had allowed him during life, as also fifty to his son
during life, according to my faithsul promise, which
the plantation was to make good as rent-charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the first part of my life, so remarkable for the many
peculiar providences that attended it, floating in an
ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of adversity
and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet ending
happily; methinks, now I am come to a safe and
pleasant haven,'tis time to cast out my anchor, and,
laying up my vessel, bid (for a while) 'adieu to fo-
reign adventures. I had now other concerns to look
after, the care of my brother's two sons, which, with
the good widow's persuasions, obliged me to continue
at home seven years. One of these children I bred
up a. gentleman, and the other an experienced sailor^
remarkable for his courage and bravery. Besides
this I married a virtuous young gentlewoman, of a
very good family, by whom I had two sons and one
daughter. But my dear and tender wife leaving this
earthly stage (as you will hear in the second part of
my life, which rending my soul as it it were asunder,
my native country became as it were tiresome to me:
And my nephew happening to come from sea, tempted
me to venture another voyage to the Eajl-Indies^
which I did in the year 1694, at which time I visited
my island, and informed myself of every thing that
happened since my departure.
*? One
One might reasonably imagine, that what I had suf-
fered, together with an advanced age, and the fear
of losing not only what I had gotten, but my life al-
so, might have choaked up all the seeds of youthful
ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period to
my wandering inclinations. But, as nothing but death
can sully allay the active part of my life, no less re-
markable for the many various contingencies os it:
You will there perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my successors the Spaniards, had an account
of the usage they met with from the EngKjhmen^
agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separating, till
at last they were subjected to the Spaniards, who yet
used them very honourably; together with the won-
derful and successsul battles over the Indians, who
invaded, and thought to have conquered the island,
but were repelled by their invincible courage and
bravery, having taken eleven men and five women pri-
soners ; by which, at my return, I found about twen-
ty young children on my little kingdom. Here I stayed
twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary things,
as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the island
into parts, reserving the whole property to mysejf.
Nor will you be insensible, by the account of these
things, of several new adventures I have been engaged
in, the battles I have fought, the deliverances I have
made thereon: And while, in the surprising relation
of such remarkable occurrences, I shall describe many
of God's kindest providences to me in particular;
no less conspicuous in the fame goodness, power and
majesty of our great Creator,'* shewn, one way or
other, over the face of the earth.
THE
THE
FARTHER ADVENTURES
i i
> OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Wherein ere contained several Jlrange and surprising
accounts of his travels, and mojl remarkable trans-
a£lienst both by sea and land.
WHEN we consider the puissant force of
nature, and what mighty influence it has
many times over the temper of the mind ;.
it will be no such great wonder to think
that my powersul reason should be overcome by a
much stronger inclination. My late acquired king-
dom ran continually in my thoughts all the day, and
I dreamt os it in the »ight; nay, I made it the conti-
nual subject of my talk, even to impertinence, when
I was awake. I had such vapours in my head,. that
I actually supposed myself at my castle: That I not
only perceived Friday's father, the old Spaniard, and
the wicked sailors; but that I talked and discoursed
with them about their manner of living: That I
heard those things. related to me, which I found af-
. .. .' P 3 terwatds
ferwards to be but too true; and that I executed my
judgments with the greatest severity upon the offenders.
And indeed this anticipating all the pleasing joys of
my life, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour; my
dear and tender wife could not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her:
My dear, said she, I am really persuaded that some secret
impulse from heaven occasions in you a determination to
see the ijland again: Nor am I less senjible, but yeur
biing engaged to me and these dear children, is the only
hindrance of your departure. I know, my dear, if I
was in the grave, you would not long continue at home:
Prevent not your happiness upon my account, whose only
comfort centers in you. All that I can objeiJ is, that
such an hazardous undertaking is no way confident. svith
a person ef your years; but if you are resolved to go,
(added flie weeping) only permit me to bear you company,
and that is all that I desire.
. Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent,' and yet most powersul charms, brought me
insensibly into my right understanding: And when I
considered all the transactions of my life, and partr-
cularly my new engagement; that I had now one
child alread) born, and my wife big of another; and
that I had no occasion to seek for more riches,. who
already was blefled with sufficiency; with much strug-
gling, I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to ap-
ply myself to some business or other, which might put
a period to such wandering inclinations. Hereupon I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, with a
resolution to move thither: Upon this there was a
pretty convenient house, surrounded with land, very
capable of improvement, which suited mv temper,
as to planting, managing, and cultivating. faor was I
long before I entered upon my new settlement, having
bought ploughs, harrows, cart, waggon, horses,
cows and sheep ; so that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and was as happy in my retirement as the
grearest
greatest monarch in the world. And what made me
^hink my happiness the greater was, that I was in
that middle state of life which my father had so often
recommended, much resembling the felicity 'of a
rural retirement, which is elegantly described by the
poet in these lines,
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, ana youth no snare.
But in the midst of this my chiefest happiness, I
was suddenly plunged into the greatest sorrow that I
could possibly endure: For, when 1 least expected it,
my dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the
irresistible power of death, leaving this transitory life
fora better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
latest breath shall record. Her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the im-
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mother:
In a word, she was the standard of all my affairs, the
center of my enterpriz.es, and the principal engine
to direct me in the course to happiness, But now;
since the cruel hand of death had closed my dearest's
eyes, in my thoughts I seemed a stranger so the world;
my Privy-Counsellor being gone, I was like a ship
without a pilot, and that could only run before the
wind.. And when I looked around me in this bitsy .
world, one part labouring for bread, and the other
squandering away their estates; this put me in mind
how l had lived. in my little kingdom* where both
reason and religion dictated to me, that there was
something that certainly was the reason and end of.
life, which was far superior to what could be hoped
for on this side the grave. My country delightswere
now. as insipid and dull as music or sense to those who
have neither taste or ingenuity.. In short, resolving
to leave off house-keeping, I left my farm, and. in a
few mouths returned to London.. . ' ' . But
But neither could that great city, so famous for it*
variety of entertainments, afford me any agreeable
delight. A state of idleness I found to be the very.
dregs of life, and most hurtsul to body and soul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1693, at which
time my nephew (who I before observed had been
brought up to the sea, and advanced to be captain of*
a ship) was returned from a short voyage to Bilboa^
the first he had made in that station. He comes to me
one morning, telling me, that some merchants of his
acquaintance had proposed to him to go a voyage for
them to the Eali Indies and China, in the manner of
private traders: And now, Uncle, said he, if you'll
accompany me thither, I'll engage to land you upon your
eld island, there to behold the Jiate of your little kingdom.
It was just before he came in, my thoughts were
fixed to get a patent for its possession, and then to fill
it with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked steadfastly. on him, What devil, or spirits
said I, sent you with this unlucky errand? He startled
at first, but recovering himself, when he perceived I
was not offended: Sir, replied he, what I have pro-
posed cannot, I hope, be stiled unlucky, since cer-
tainly you must be defirous to fee your little territory,
where you reigned with more content than any of your
brother Kings in the universe. Nephew, said I, if
you will leave me there, and eall forme as you come
back, I care not if I give my consent: But he an-
swered, that the merchants would not allow their ves-
sel, laden with an infinite value, to return there again,
which was a month's fail out of the way: Besides,
Sir, said he, supposing I should miscarry, was your re-
quell granted, why then you would be in the fame
state as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
was, to carry a framed sloop on board, ready to be
set up in the island, by the assistance of some carpen-
ters which we should carry with us, that would be
fitted
fitted in a. few days to go to sea. I was not song form-
ing my resolution, which overswaycd my good friend;
the widow's persuasions, and the natural affection. L
and settled my estate in. such a manner, that I was per-
fectly easy that the poor infants would have justice
done them. The good widow not only undertook to'
make provision for my voyage, but also took the charge
of my domestic affairs, and to provide for my children's
education; and indeed no mother could take more
care^ or understood that office better, which I lived to
reward, and to return her my hearty thanks for.
The beginning of "January 1694-5, my nephew
being ready to fail, I and Friday went on board in the
Downs on the 8th; having, besides that sloop already
mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my new co-
lony. First, I had some servants, whom I proposed to
leave there as inhabitants, or to work while I stayed
there, as they should appear willing: There were two
carpenters, a smith, and a very ingenious fellow who
was Jack of all trades; for he was not only a cooper
by trade, but was also dexterous at making wheels
and hand-mills to grind corn, likewise a good turner
and a good pot-maker. I also carried a taylor, who
consented to stay in my plantation, and proved a most
necessary fellow in the island. As to my cargo, it
consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and Englljh
stuffs, for cloathing the Spaniards that 1 expected to
find there; as likewise gloves, hats, (hoes, stockings;
together with beds, bedding, and houshold-stuff,"
especially kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, &c. also nails, tools of all forts, staples, hooks,
hinges, and all other things necessary; all which, I
think, cost me about 300/. Nor was this all, for I
carried an hundred spare arms, muskets, and suzees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of several
sorts of shot, two brass cannon, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part for some pikes and halberts;

children. I made my willr
and
and I made my nephew take with us two small quar-
ter-deck. guns more than he had occasion for in his
ship, to leave behind, if there was a necessity: so.
that we might build a fort there, and man it against
all oppoferS whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea; and though I can't say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland,
where we lay wind-bound two and twenty days.
Here indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we
added to our ship's stores, by taking in several live
hogs, two cows and calves, which I then resolved to
put on shore in my islands if our necessities did not
call for them. On the 5th of February we sailed from
Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for some
days ; and, I think it was about the 20th of the fame
month, late in the evening, when the mate informed'
us, that he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and while he was speaking, a boy came in, and told
us the boatswain heard another. Upon which, we all
ran to the quarter-deck, from whence, in a few mi-
nutes, we perceived a terrible fire at a distance. We
had immediate recourse to our reckonings, in which we
were all of opinion that there could be no land that
way, it appearing to be at N. N. IV. Hereupon we
concluded that some ship had taken fire at sea, and
that it could not be far osf, by the report of the guns
which we had heard. We made up directly to it, and.
in half an hour's time, the wind being fair, we could
plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the middle of
the sea. Touched with this unhappy disaster, and
considering my former circumstances, when the Por-
tuguese captain took me up, I immediately ordered
five guns to be fired, that the poor creatures (not fee-.
ing us, it being dark, as we could perceive their flame)
might be sensible there . was a deliverance at hand,
ana consequently might endeavour to save themselves
int.
( *89 )
in their boat. Nor was it long before the ship blew
up in the air, and the sire extinguished in the ocean.
But supposing them all to be in their boats, we hung
out all our lanthorns, and kept firing till eight o'clock
in the morning; when, with our profpectives, we be-
held two boats, sull of people, making towards us,
though the tide was against them. Then spreading
out our antient, and hanging out a waft as a signal for
them to come on board, in half an hour's time we
came up to them, and took them all in, there being
no less than 64 men, women and children. It was a
French merchant ship of 300 tons, homeward bound
from Quebec in the river of Canada. The master in-
formed me, how by the negligence of the steersman,
the steerage was set on fire; that at his outcry for
help, the fire was, as they thought, totally extin-
guished ; but that some sparks getting between the
timber and between the cieling, it proceeded into the
hold, where there was no resisting it; that then they
got into their boats, as creatures in the last extremity,
with what provision they had^ together with oars, fails,
and a compass, intending to go back to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing at S. E. and bv E. tho' there were
several chances against them, as sWms to overset and
founder them, rains and colds to benumb and perish
their limbs, and contrary winds to keep them out
and starve them: But, said he, in this our great dis-
tress, we heard the welcome report of your guns,;
when, with unspeakable joy, taking down our masts'
and sails, we were resolved to lie by till morning ; but
perceiving your light, we set our oars at work to keep
our boat a-head, the sooner to attain your ship, the
happy instrument of our deliverance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor crea-
tures on this occasion: Fear and grief are easily set
forth: Sighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and head, make up the sum of its variety:
But an excess or surprize of joy carries in it a thou-
.' \ sand
sand extravagances; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile*
passionate, sprightly and fluid, than in other kingdoms.
Some were either weeping, tearing themselves in the.
greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark raving
mad ab'out the ship; while the rest were stamping with.
their feet, wringing their hands, singing, laughing,
swooning away, vomiting, fainting; with a few, re-.
turning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and crossing
themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken, our fur-.
geon was obliged to let thirty of them blood. But
among the passengers there were two priests, the one
an old, and the other a young man; but what amazed
me more, the oldest was the worst : For, no sooner
did he perceive himself freed from danger, but he
dropped down as it were without life, and to every-
one's appearance, quite dead; but the surgeon, chaf-
ing and rubbing his arm, he opened a vein, which.
at first dropped, and then flowing more freely, the old
man began to open his eyes, and in a quarter of are
hour was well again. But soon revolving his happy
change, the joy of which whirled his spirits about
faster than the vessels could convey them, his blood
became so feverish, as made him more fit for bedlam.
than any other place; but the surgeon giving him a.
sleepy dose, he was perfectly composed next morning.
Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the young
priest. At his entrance on board the ship, he fell on.
his face in the most humble prostration to the Al-
mighty. I thought indeed he had fallen into a swoon*
and so ran to help him up; but he modestly told me*
he was returning his thanks to the Almighty, desiring
me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to*
his Creator, he would return me thanks also. And
indeed he did so about three minutes after, with great
seriousness and affection, though the tears stood in his
eyes, which consirmed the gratitude of his soul. Nor
did he less shew his piety and wisdom, in applying
*..»*. J himself
pose them by the most powersul reasons, arguments,
and persuasions. And when, indeed these people had
taken their night's repose, in such convenient lodg-
ings as our ship would allow, we found nothing but
the best of manners, and the most civil acknowledg-
ments, for which the French are eminently remarkable.
The next day the captain and one of the priests, de-
sired to speak with me and my nephew the com-
mander. They told us, that they had saved some
money and valuable things out of the ruined vessel,
which was at our service, only that they defired to be
set on more some where in our way. At the first,
my nephew was for accepting the money; but I, (who
knew how hard my cafe would have been, had the
Portugueze captain served me so) persuaded him to the
contrary; and therefore told them, that as we had
done nothing but what we were obliged to do by rea-
fon and humanity, and what we ourselves might ex-
pect from others in such calamity; so we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them, or leave them na-
ked upon the land, to perish for want of subsistence,
and therefore would not accept their money: But as
to landing them, that was a great difficulty; for being
bound to the Eajl Indies, it was impossible wilsully to
change ourroyage upon this particular account, nor
my nephew (who was under charter-party to pursue
it by way of Brasil) answer it to the freighters. All
that we could do was, to put ourselves in the way of
Indies, that if possible they might get a passage to France
'or England. Indeed they were very thanksul for our
first kindness; but were Under great concern, espe-
cially their passengers, at their being carried to the Eajl
Indies. They begged therefore I would keep oh the
banks of Newfoundland, where probably they might
meet with some (hip or sloop to carry them to Canada,
whence they came. As this was but a reasonable re-
quest,
meeting some ships homeward

quest, I was inclined to grant it, since it was no breach
of charter-party; and that the laws of God and na-
ture obliged us to do what good we could to our fel-
low creatures; and besides, the danger we ourselves
should be in for want of provisions: So we consented
to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; if not, that we should carry them to
Martlnico in the Wejl Indies. But, as it happened,
in a week's time we made the banks of Newfoundland..
where the: French people hired a bark to carry them to
France. But the young priest being desirous to go to
the East Indies, I readily agreed to it, because I liked
his conversation; and two or three of the French sailors
also entered themselves onboard our ship.
Now directing our course for the West Indies, steer-
ing S. and S. hy E. about 20 days with little wind,
another adventure happened to exercise our humanity.
In the latitude of 17 degrees 5 m. north, the 19th
of Marsh 1694-5, we perceived a fail, (our course
S. E. and by S.) which bore up to us, and then she ap-
peared to be a large vessel, having lost her main-top-
mast, fore-mast, and bolt-sprit, when firing a gun,
as a signal of distress, wind N. M W. we soon came
to. spealf with her. She was a ship of Bristol, bound
home from Barbadoes, out of which road she had been
forced by a hurricane to the. westward, in which they
lost their masts: 'They told us, their expectations
were to fee the Bahama Islands, but were driven away
by a strong wind at N. N. W. and having no fails,
to work the ship with, but the main course, and a kind
of square sail upon a jury fore-mast, because they
could not come near the land, were endeavouring to
stand for the Canaries. Nay, what was worse, besides
all their satigue, they were almost starved for want of
provision, having eat nothing for 11 days, all that
they had a-board was sugar, a cask of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. In this ship were three pas-
sengers; a youth, his mother, and a maid servant,
who were in a most deplorable condition for want of
food. If I had not gone on board their ship, this
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me", and they would have inevitably perished, tho' in-
deed their second mate (who was captain, by reason
the true.captain was not on board when the hurricane
happened) had before informed me, that there were
such persons on board, whom he supposed to be dead,
being afraid to enquire after them, because he had no-
thing to give them for relief. Hereupon we resolved
to let them have what we could spare, ordering the
mate to bring some of his men on board us, which
.he did. accordingly, yet bath he and they looked like
skeletons; and when meat was'set before them, I
ordered them toeat sparingly. But, however, they soon
fell sick, which obliged the surgeon to mix something
in their broth, that was to be to them both food and
physic. When they were fed, we ordered our mate
to carry them a sack of bread, and sour or five pieces
of beef to boil; but the surgeon charged them to see
it boiled, and to keep a guard in the Qook-room, to
.prevent.the men eating it raw, and consequently kill
themselves with what was designed for their relief.
.But particularly I defired the mate to fee what con-
dition the poor passengers were in, and the surgeon
gave him a pitcher of the fame broth which he had
prepared for the men: And being curious to fee this
scene of misery myself, I took the captain, (as we
called the mate of the ship) in our own boat, and
failed after them. .
Here was a fad sight indeed! Scarce was the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook-room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were dipt
in, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which
.they call Brewis; telling them it was for their own
safety, that he was obliged to give them but a little
at a time; and so feeding them gradually; their bellies
^' Q_ were
s 1.94 1'
were. comfortably filled, and the men did very well
again. But when they came to the poor gentlewo-
man in the cabin, who for several days continued with-
out food, giving what she had to her son, they found
her as it were in the arms'of death. She was sitting
upon the floor of the deck, with her back up against
the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast,
and her head shrunk between her shoulders, like a
senseless corps. Nothing was wanting in my mate to
revive and encourage her, opening her lips, and put-
ting some broth into her mouth with a spoon. But
not having strength to speak, she lifted up her head
with much difficulty, intimating that it was now too
late ; at the some time pointing to the youth, her son,
as though she defired him, to do what he could to
save him; and, in a little time after, she died.
The youth indeed was not so far gone; yet lay
stretched out in a cabin bed like one that had scarce
any life: In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had eat up. At first he vomited
up what the mate had given him; but at length be-
gan sensibly "o revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid she lay by her mistress like one
in the latest pangs of death: Her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame
of a chair, which she griped so hard, that it was with
some difficulty we separated her from it; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together,
set fast against the frame of the cabin table; not only
being starved with hunger, but overcome with grief
for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved most
tenderly. It was a great while before the surgeon
could bring her to life, and a much longer time before
she came to her senses. , .
After we had sailed with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking
takiitg three casks of sugar; seme'rum, and some
,pieces of eight for satisfaction, we left. them, b.ut took
the youth and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about 17 years old, very handsome, mo-
dest, sensible, and well bred, but mightily concerned
for the loss of his honoured mother, having lost his
father at Barb tuba but a few months before. Hebe-
seeched the surgeon to intercede with me to take him
out of the ship; for that the sailors, not sparing a
small sustenance, had murdered his mother. But
hunger has no bounds, no right, and consequently is
incapable of any compassion. When the surgeon told
him that our voyage might put him in bad' circum-
stances, and farther from his friends, he answered, he
did not care so he was but delivered from that terrible
crew: That as the captain (meaning me) had saved
him from death, s6 he was sure that he would.do him
no harm ; and as for the maid, when she was restored
to her senses, me would be no less thanksul, let us
carry them where we would; And indeed the surgeon
so represented their case to me, that I consented, and -
took them ;on board, with all their goods, except ir
hogsheads of sugar ; but the youth having a bill of
lading, I made the commander sign awriting, to oblige
him t» deliver a letter and the deceased widows goods,
to Mr Rogers, a merchant at Biijlol: but I believe
tfie ship was lost at sea, for we could never hear what
became of her afterwards. We were now in the la-
titude of ig deg. 32 min. having as yet a tolerable
good voyage, But, passing by several little incidents
relative to wind and weather, I shall relate what is
more remarkable concerning my little kingdom, which
I was then drawing near. I had great difficulty in
attaining it; for as I came to, and went from it be-
fore, on the south and east of the island, as coming
from the Braf.h; so now approaching between the
main and the island, not having any chart of the coast,
nor land-mark, H obliged us "to. go on shore several
"Q_ 2 islands,
islands, on the mouth of the great river Oroanoko, but
to no purpose. Then I perceived, that what I thought
was a continent before, was no such thing, but a.iong
island, or rather a ridge of sand. On one of these
islands, I found some Spaniards, but they belonged to
the Isle de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop to
make salt, and find some pearl muscles, if they could.
But al length I came fair on the south side of my
island, and then I presently knew the countenance of
my little kingdom; so we brought the ship safe to an
anchor, with her broadside to the little creek, where
stood my antient and venerable castle.
No sooner did I see the place, but calling for Friday ,
I asked him where he was? But when he looked a lit-
tle, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joy, 0 there, O
yes, O there! pointing to our old abode, and then fell
a dancing and capering as if he vvas mad j and I had
much ado to keep him from^jumping into the sea, to
swim astiore. Friday, said I, what do you think, shall
we see your father? At the mentioning his father's
name, the poor affectionate creature fell a weeping:
No no (fays he.) me fee him no more, never see poor fa-
ther more! be long ago die, die long ago; pe much old
man. You don't know that Friday, said I, but shall
we see any body else f He looks about, and pointing
to the hill above my house, he crias out, We see! ive
see! there much men, and there! vJhich, tho' I could
not perceive them with my perspective glass, was
true, by what the men themselves told me the next
day.
When the Englijh-Ancient was spread, and three
guns fired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from the creek ; upon which I ordered the
boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging out a
white flag of truce, I went on shore, accompanied
also by the young Friar, to whom I had related the
hislory of the first part of my life. Besides, we had
sixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met with any
exposition. After
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the first
man I sixed my eye upon was the Spaniard, whose
life I had saved, and whose face I perfectly well'
knew. I ordered them all to stay in the boat for a
while; but Friday perceiving his father at a distance,
would have jumped into the sea had they not let him.
go. No sooner was he on shore; but he flew like a'
swift arrow out of a bow, to embrace his ancient fa-
ther. ' Certainly it Would melt a man of the firmest
re blution, into the softest tears, to fee with what
uncommon transports of joy he saluted him. He sirst
k IT d him, then stroked his face, took him in his
arms, laid him under a shady tree, fat down by him,.
then looked as earnest at him as one would do at a
picture, fora quarter of an hour together. After this
he would lie upon the ground, stroke his legs, and.
kiss them, then get up and stare at him as though he
was bewitched: But the next day one could not for-
bear laughter, to s.e his behaviour ; for he would walk
several hours with his father along the shore, leading
him by the hand as though he was a lady, while every'
now and then he would rifn to the boat to get some-
thing for him; as a lump of sugar,' dram, biscuit*
or something or other that was good. His frolics ran
in another channel in the afternoon; for, when Ke
set old Friday on t'ie ground, he would dance round
him, making comical postures and gestures; and all
this while would be telling him one story or other of
his travels and adventures..
It was On the joth ot April, Anno 169.5, that I set
my foot upon the island a second time. When my.
faithsul Spaniard, accompanied by one more, ap,y
pfesiched the boat; He little knew who I was, tilt
I discovered myself to him: Seigniir, said I, in Pir-
tugueze, dont you know me? He spoke never a word y
but, giving his musket to his attendant, extended his
arms, and swing something in Spcmijh that 1 did not
then understand, hs came forward and embraced me;
^ saying;
say ing,.be was inexcusable, not to know his deliverer,
who, like an angel lent from heaven, had su ed his life.
He then beckoned to the man to call out his compa-
nions; asking me if I would walk to my own habita-
tion, and take possession, where I should find some
mean improvements; hut indeed they were extraor-
dinary ones; for they had planted so many trees, so
close together, that the place was like a labyrinth,.
which none could sind out except themselves, who
knew its intricate windings. I asked him the mean-
ing of all these fortifications ; he told me, he would
give me a large account of what had past since my da-
parture to this time, and how he had subdued some
Englijh who thought to be their murderers, hoping I
would not be displeased, since necessity compelled them
to it. As I knew they v\ ere wicked villains, I told
him, that I was not only far from finding fault with
if, but was rather heartily glad they had subdued them.
But while we were talking, the man whom he had
sent returned, accompanied by eleven more; but in
such habits, thatlt was impossible to tell what nations
they were of. He first turned to me, pointing to
them; These, Sir, said he, are some of the gentle-
men who owe their lives to'your goodness; and then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made them
sensible who I was: And then indeed they saluted me
one by one, not as ordinary men, but as though they
had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I a triumphant
conqueror: For their behaviour not only agreed
with a manlike, majestic gravity, but, at the same
time, was so obliging and courteous, .as made them
admirable to the last degree. . . .. (. \
Before I relate the history of the transactions of my
Kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own mouth,
I must here insert. what I omitted in my former rela-
tion. The matter.is this: Just before we weighed
anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel on board
the stiip, which had like to have occasioned a second
mutiny,
. [. 199 ].
mutiny, till such time as the courageous captain, tak-
ing two of the most resractory prisoners, he laid them
in irons, threatening them, as they were concerned
in the former disorders, to have them hanged in Eng-
land for running away with the ship. This frightened
some of the rest, as thinking the captain would serve
them in the same manner, tho' he seemed to give them
good words for the present. But the mate, having
intelligence of this, made me acquainted with their
fears; so that to make them more easy, and ourselves
more safe from their conspiracies, I was obliged to go
down, and pass my Honour's word for it, that, upon
their good behaviour, all that was past should be par-
doned ; in testimony of which, I ordered the two men's
irons to.be taken off, and themselves forgiven. But
as this had brought us to an anchor that m'ght, in .
which there was a calm, the two men that had b>en
in irons, stoletach of them a musket, and some other
weapons, and taking the ship's pinnance, not yet
hawled up, ran away to their brother rogues. The
next morning we sent the long boat, with men to
^pursue them, but all in vain... The mate, in revenge,
would have demolished my little castle, burnt.its sur-
niture, and destroyed their plai:Uations; but having
no orders for it, he did not put it in execution. And
thus there were five Englishmen in the island, which
caused great differences, as my faithsul Spaniard gave
me.a perfect account of in the following manner. . .
You cannot, Sir, but remember. the embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, bein^ blest t
with calm weather and a smooth sea. Great indeed
was the joy of my countrymen, on seeing me alive,
having acted as the principal man on bdard, the cap-
tain of the ship-wreck'd vessel dying before; nor
was their surprize less, who knowing I was taken pri-
soner by the savages of another nation, thought me
long since entombed in their monstrous bowels. But,
when I shewed them the arms, ammunition, and pro-
vision I had brought for them, they Jooked upon me
as a second "Joseph advanced in Phjirastlrs Court, and
immediately prepared to come along with me. In-
deed, they were obliged to trespass upon their friendly
savages, by borrowing two of their canoes, under a
pretext for fishing; and they came away the next
morning, but without any provisions of their own,
except a few roots, which' served them instead.of bread.
After three week's absence, we arrived at our habi-
tation. Here we met with three Englijh sailors, who,
I confess, gave us provisions, and that letter of direc-
tions y6u had left for us, which informed us, how to
bring up tame goats^ plant corn, cure grapes, make
pots ; and, in short, every thing that was necessary for
our use; as in particular, I knew your method best:
So taking Friday's father to assist me, we managed all
the asfairs. Nor were the rest of the Spaniards want-
ing in their kind offices, dressing food for the Englijh-
men, who did nothing but ramble and divert themselves
in the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tor-
toises. But we had not been long ashore, before we
were informed of two more Englijhmen, unnaturally
turned out of their common place of residence, by the
three others above-mentioned: This made my Spa-
niards and me (whom they looked upon as\ their
Governor, in your absence) endeavour to persuade
them to take them in, that We might be as one family;.
but all our entreaties were'in Vain'; so that the poor
fellows, finding nothing to be done without industry,
prtched their tents on the north side of the island, a
little inclining to the Weft, for fear of savages. Here
they built two huts, one to lodge, and thi other to
lay their stores in; for my good-.nature; Spaniards
givir. ;them some feed, they dug and planud as I had
don. . nd began to live orettily. But while they
wev: jung on thus comfortably, the three unnatural
brutes.
brutes, their "countrymen, in a mere bullying humeur,
insulted them, by saying the Governor (meaning you)
had given them possession of the island, and, damn
them, they shouly build no houses upon their ground,
without paying rent. The two honest men (Torso
let me now distinguish them} thought their three coun-
trymen only jested, and one of them invited them in,
to see'their fine habitations; while the other face-
tiously told them, that since they built tenements,
with great improvements, they should, according to
the custom of landlords, give them a longer lease ; at
the same time desiring them to fetch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the wretches, swearing
he should pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-brand,
and clapping it to the outside of their hut, very fairly
set it on" fire, which soon would have been consumed,
had not the honest man thrust him away, and trod it
out wivh his feet. Hereupon the fellow returns with
a pole, with which he would have ended his days, had
not the poor man avoided the blow; when fetching
his musket, he knocked the villain down that began
the quarrel. The other two, coming to aliist their
fellow, obliged the other honest man to take his mus-
ket also., and both, presenting their pieces, bid the
villains stand off; and if they did not lay down their
arms, death should decide the dispute one way or other.
This brought them to a parley, in which they agreed
to take their wounded man, and be gone; but they
were in the wrong that they did not disarm them when
they had the power, and then make their complaint
to me and my Spaniards for justice, which might have
prevented their farther designs against them. Ana"
indeed so many trespasses did they commit after, by
treading down their corn, shooting their young kids
and goats, and plaguing them night and day, that they
resolved to come to my castle, challenge all the three,
and decide their right by one plain battle, while the
Spaniards stood by to see fair play. One day it hap-
pened,
pened, that two os my Spaniards (one of whom un-
derstood Englijh) being in the woods, were met by
one of the honest men, who complained how barba-
rous their countrymen had been, in destroying their
corn, killing their milch-goat and 3 kids, which de-
prived them of their subsistence; that if we did not
grant them relief, they must be inevitably starved ; and
so they parted: But when my Spaniards came home
at night, and supper being on the table, one of them
began to reprehend the Englijhmen, but in a very man-
nerly way; which they resenting, replied, What bu-
siness had their countrymen there without leave ? 'and
that it was none of their ground. Why, said my
Spaniard calmlv, Ing/ese they must not starve; But
they replied, Let them starve and be damned, they
should neither plant nor build ; and damn them, they
should be their servants, and work for them; for the
island was theirs, and they would burn all the huts
they should find on the land: By this rule (said my
Spaniard smiling) we shall be your servants too? Aye,
by God, and so you shall, replied the impudent ras-
cal. Upon which, Will. Atkhu starting upr cries,
come, Jack, let's have t'other brush with them; who
dare to build in our dominions? Thus, leaving us
something heated with a just. passion, away they
trooped, every man having a ^un, pistol, and sword,
muttering some threatening words, that we could then
but imperfectly understand. That night they de-
signed to murder their two companions, and slept till
midnight in the bower, thinking to fall upoii t.ham in
their sleep: Nor were the honest men less thoughtsul
concerning them ; for at this juncture they were com-
ing to find them out, but in a much suirer way. As
soon as the villains came to the hut^, and found no-
body there, they concluded, that I and my Spaniards
had given them notice, and therefore swore to be re-
venged on us. Then they demolished the poor men's
habitation, not by fire, as they attempted before, but
pulled
pulled down their houses limb from limb, not leaving
a stick nor stone on the ground where they stood;
broke 'heir houshold stuff in pieces, tore up their trees,
.spoiled :heir inclosure; and, in short, quite ruined
them of every thing they had. Had these people met
together, no doubt but there would have been a bloody
battlt; bi t Providence ordered it for the better: For
just as the three were got thither, the two were at our
cattle; and when they left us, the three came back
again, scoffing] y telling us what they had done; when
one, taking hold of the Spaniard's hat, twirls it round,
saying, And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, /bail .have the
fame faiicel if you\don't mend your mannes*. My Spa-
niard, a gratfe, but a courageous man, knocked him
down with one blow of his fist; at which, another
villain fired his pistol, and narroWly miffed his body,
but wounded him a little in the ear. The Spaniards
enraged hereat, takes up the fellow's musket' whom
he had knocked down, and would have shot him, if 1
and the rest had not come out, and took their arms
from every one of them.
These Englijhmen, perceiving they had made all of
11s their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstanding
their better words, the Spaniards would not return
them their arms again; telling them they would do
them no manner of harmr if they would live peace-
ably; but if they offered any injury to the plantation
or castle, they would slioot them as they would do
ravenous beasts. This made them so mad, that they
went away raging like the furies of hell. They were
no sooner gone, but in came the two honest men, fired
with the justest rage, if such can be, having been
ruined as aforesaid; and indeed it was very hard, that
nineteen of us should be bullied by three villains,
contiuually offending with impunity. .
It was a great while, Sir, before we could persuade
the two Englijhmen from pursuing, and undoubtedly
killing them with their fixe-arms, but we promises
them
them justice should be done them, and in the mean
time they should reside with us in our own habitation.
In about five days after, these five vagrants, almost
.starved with hunger, drew neir our grove; and per-
ceiving me, the Governor, and two others, walking
by the side of the creek, they very submiffively de-
fired to be received into the family again. We told
them of their great incivility to us, and of their un-
natural barbarity to their countrymen; but yet we
would fee what the.rest agreed to, and would bring
them word in half an hour. After some debate, we
.called them in, where their two countrymen laid a
heavy charge against them, for not only ruining, but
designing to murder them, which they could not deny.
But here I was forced to interpose as a mediator ; by
obliging the two Englijhmen not to hurt them, being
naked and unarmed ; and that the other three should
make them restitution, by building their two huts,
and fencing their ground in the fame manner as it was
before. Well, being in a miserable condition, they
submitted to this at present, and lived some time re-
. gularly enough, except to the working part, which
they did not care for; but the Spaniards would have
dispensed with that, had they continued easy and quiet.
Their arms being given to them again, they scarce
had them a week, till they became as troublesome as
ever ; but an accident happening soon after, obliged
us to lay aside private resentments, and look to our
common preservation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could 1 compose myself
to sleep: Upon which, being very uneasy, I got up,
and looked out, but it being dark, could perceive no-
thing but the trees around our castle: I went to bed
again, but it was all one, I could not sleep; when one
of my Spaniards hearing me walk about, asked me,
who is that up ? "I answered, 'tis I; when I told him
the occasion; Sir said he, such' things are not to be
ilighted;
flighted; for certainty there is some mischief plotting
near us. Where are the Engltjhmen F said I. He an-
swered, in their huts : for they lay separate from us,
Sir, since the last mutiny. Well, said I, some kind
spirit gives,this information for our advantage. Come,
let us look abroad, and something may osfer to justify
pur pains. Upon which I and some of my Spaniards
went up to the mountain, not by the ladder, but thro'
the grove ; and then we were struck into a panic" fear
by seeing a light, as though it were a fire, at a very
little distance, and hearing the voices of several men.
Hereupon we retreated immediately, and raising the
rest of our forces, made them.sensible of the impending
danger: But, with all my authority, I could not make
them stay where they were, so earnest were they to
see how things went; though indeed the darkness of
the night gave them opportunity enough to view them
(by the light of the fire) undiscovered. As they were
disferent parties, and straggling over the shore, we
were much afraid that they should find ©ut our habi-
tation, and destroy our flocks of goats: To prevent
which, we sent oneEnglijbman, and two Spaniards, to
drive the goats into the valley where the cave lay ; or,
if there was occasion,'into the cave itself. As to our
own parts, resuming our native courage and prudent
conduct, had they not been divided, we durst venture
to attack an hundred of them. But, before it was yet
light, we resolved to send out Friday's father as a spy;
who, immediately stripping himself naked, gets among
them undiscovered, and in two hour's time, brings
word, that they were two parties, of two different
nations, who, having lately a bloody battle with one
another, happened to land by mere chance on the
fame island, to devour their miserable prisoners; that
they were entirely ignorant of any person's inhabiting
here; but rather, being filled with rage and sury
against one another, he believed, that as soon as day-
light appeared, there would be a terrible engagement.
R Old
Old Friday had scarce ended his relation, but we heard
an uncommon noise, and perceived that there was an
horrid engagement between the two armies.
Such was the curiosity of our party, especially the
Englijhmen, that they would not lie close, though Old
Friday told them their safety depended upon it; and
that, if we had patience, we should behold the savages
kill one another. However, they used some caution,
by going surther into the woods, and placed them-
selves in a convenient place to behold the battle.
Never could be a more bloody engagement, nor
men of more invincible spirits and prudent conduct,
according to their way and manner of sighting. It
lasted near two hours, till that party which was nearest
our castle began to decline, and at last to fly from
their conquerors. We were undoubtedly, Sir, put
into a great consternation on this account, lest they
should run into our grove, and, consequently, bring
us into the like danger. Hereupon we resolved to
kill the sirst that came, to prevent discovery; and
that too with our swords, and the but-end of our
muskets, for fear the report of our guns should be
heard.
And so indeed it happened as we thought; for three
os the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran di-
rectly to the place, as to a thick wood for shelter; nor
was it long before our scout gave us notice of it; as
also, that the victors did not think it fit to pursue
them. Upon this, I would not suffer them to be slain,
but had them surprised and taken by our party; and
afterwards they proved very good servants to us, being
stout young creatures, and able to do a great deal of
work. The remainder of the conquered savages,
fled to their canoes, and put out into the ocean;
while the conquerors, joining together, shouted by
way of triumph; and about three in the afternoon, they
also embarked for their own nation. Thus we were
freed at once, from the saf'ages and our fears, not
perceiving
perceiving any of these creatures for some considerable
time after. We found two and thirty men dead in.
the field of battle ; some were flain with long arrows,
which we found sticking in their bodies ;and the rest
were killed with large unwieldy wooden swords, which
denoted their vast strength ; and of which we found
seventeen, besides bows and arrows: But we could
not find one wounded creature among them alive;
for they either kill their enemies quite, or carry those
wounded away with them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englijhmen for some
time; considering how unfortunate they might have
been, had they fallen into their hands, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as we
do cattle: And, indeed, so much did this nauseate
their stomachs, that it not only made them very lick,
but more tractable to the common neceflary business
of the whole society, planting, sowing, and reaping,
with the greatest iigns of amity and friendship: So
that now, being all good friends, we began to consider
of circumstances in general; and the first thing we
thought of was, Whether, as we perceived the sa-
vages haunted that side of the island, and there being
more retired parts of it, and yet as well suited to our
manner of living, and equally to our advantage, we
ought not much rather to move our place of residence,
and plant it in a much safer place, both for the secu-
rity of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,
or rather voted, nemine tontradicente, not to remove
our ancient castle; and that for this very good rea-
fon, that some time or other we expected to hear
from our supreme Governor (meaning you, Sir) whose
messengers, not finding us there, might think the
place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed by
t ie savages.
As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the val-
R 2 ley
ley where the cave was, the land there being properest,
and sufficient for both. But yet, when. we considered.
further, we altered one part of our resolution, which
was, to remove part of our cattle thither, and there
plant only part of our corn; so that in case one part
was destroyed, the other might be preserved. We
took another resolution, which really had a great deal
of prudence in it, and that was, in not trusting the
three savages, which we had taken prisoners, with
any knowledge of the plantation we had mads in thtat
valley, or of what number of cattle, much less the
cave, wherein we conveyed several arms, and two
barrels of powder you lefc for us, at your departure
from this island. But though we could not change
our habitation, we resolved to make it more fortified
and more secret. To this end, Sir, as you had planted
trees at some distance before the entrance .of your
"palace, so we, imitating your example, planted and
filled up the whole space of ground, even to the
banks of the creek, nay, into the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not leaving a place for landing:
.And among those you had planted, we also intermingled
so many short ones, all of which growing wonder-
sully fast and thick, scarcely a little dog could find a
pastage through them. Nor was this sufficient, as we
thought, for we did the fame to all the ground, to the
right and left hand of us, even to the top of the hill,
without so much as a passage for ourselves, except
by the ladder; which being taken down, nothing
but what had wings or witchcraft could pretend to
come near us. And indeed this was excellently well
contrived, especially to serve that occasion, for which
we afterwards found it necessary.
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
not having one visit from the savages all that time.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
into some amazement; for a few of my Spaniards be-
ing out very ear ly, perceived no less than twenty ca-
... nOCS,
noes, as it were, coming on shore; upon which, re-
turning home with great precipitation, they gave us
ths alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all that
day, and the next, going out only in the night time
to make oar observations: But, as good luck would
have it, they were "upon another design, and did not
land that time upon the island.
But how there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englijhmtn, and some of my Spa*
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being;
enraged at one of the savages, whom we.had taken'
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend something
which he was shewing him, he snatches up a hatchet
in a great sury, not to correct, but to kill him; but
miffin r his head, he gave him such a barbarous cut in.
his shoulder, that had like to have struck osf his arm ;.
at which, one of my good-natured Spaniards, interpos-
ing between the Englijhman and the poor savage, ber.
seeched the former not to murder the poor creature :;
But this kindness had like to cost the Spaniard's life
..for tite Englijhman struck at him in the fame manner,.
which he nimbly and suddenly avoiding, returned sudr
denly upon him with his shovel, (being all at work
about their corn-land) and very fairly knocked the
brutish creature down. Hereupon another Englijh-
man, coming to his fellow's assistance, laid the good
Spaniard on the earth ; when immediately two others,.
coming to his relief, were attacked by the third Eng-
lijhman, armed with an old cutlass, who wounded
them both. But this uproar soon reached our cars,
who rushing out upon them, took the three. Englijhmen
prisoners: And then, our. next question. was,. what
should be done to such mutinous and impudent fellows,.
so surious, desperate and idle, that they were mischiev-
ous to the highest degree, and consequently not safe
for the society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as I was Governor in your.absence, .so I
also took the authority of a Judge; and having them
K. 3^ brought
i [ . 210 ]
brought before me, I told them, Tha*t if they had been
of my country, I would hang every mother's son of
them; but since it was an Englijhman (meaning you,
kind Sir) to whom y/e were indebted for our'preserva-
tion and deliverance, I would, in gratitude, use them
with.all possible mildness; but, at the fame time,
leave them to the judgment of the two other Euglijh-
ttitn, who, I hoped, forgetting their resentments,
would deal impartially by them.
Hereupon one of their countrymen stood up: Sir,
said he, leave it not to us, for you may be sensible ive
have reason to sentence them to the gallows: Bejides, Sir,
this fellow, Will. Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your jleep, which
ive woidd not consent to; but knowing their inability, and
your vigilance, we did not think jit to discover it before.
How, Seignior, said I, do you hear what is alledged
against you? What can you fay to justify so horrid an
action as to murder us in cold blood? So far, Sir,
was the wretch from denying it, that he swore, Damn
him but he would do it still. But what have we. done
to you, Seignior Atkins, said I,. or what will you gain
by killing us? What shall we do to prevent you? Must
we kill you, or you kill us? Why will you, Seignior
Atkins (said I, smiling) put us to such an unhappy di-
lemma, such a fatal necessity? But so great a rage
did my scoffing, and yet severe jestput.him into, that
he was going to flj at me, and undoubtedly had at-
tempted to kill me, if possesled of weapons, and had
not been prevented by three Spaniards. This unpar-
ralleled and villainous carriage made us seriously con-
sider what was to be done. The two Englijhmen and
the Spaniard, who had saved the poor Indian's life,
mightily petitioned me to hang one of them, for an
example to the others, which mould be him that had
twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet,
it being at that time impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they could never gain my consent to put
J
him to death, for the reasous above mentioned, since
it was an Englijhman (even yourself) was my deli-
verer: And, as mercisul councils are most prevailing,
when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be of the fame
opinion, as to clemency. But to prevent them do-
ing us any suture mischief, we all agreed that they
should have no weapons, as swords, guns, powder
or shot, but be expelled from the society, to live how
they pleased by themselves: That neither the two
Englishmen, nor the rest of the Spaniards, should have
conversation with them upon any account whatso-
ever: That they should be kept from coming within
certain limits of our castle; and if they "dared to
offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning, kill-
ing or destroying any of the corn, plantings, build-
ings, fences, or cattle, belonging to the society, we
would shoot them as freely as we would do beasts of
prey, in whatsoever places we should perceive them.
This sentence seemed very just to all but them-
selves ; when, like a mercisul Judge, I called out to the
two honest Englijhmen faying, you must consider they
ought not to be starved neither; and since it will be
some time before they can raise corn or cattle of their
own, let us give them some corn to last them eight
months, and for feed to sow, by which time they will
raise some for themselves. Let us also bestow upon
them 6 milch goats, 4 he ones, and 6 kids, as well
for their present support, as a farther increase; toge-
ther with tools necessary for their work, as hatchets,
an axe, saw, and other things convenient to build
them huts: All which were agreed to; but before
they took them in possession, I obliged them solemnly
to swear, never to attempt any thing against us or
their countrymen for the suture. Thus dismiffing
them from our society, they went away, sullen and re-
fractory, as tho' neither.willing. to go nor stay: How-
ever, seeing no remedy, they took what provision was
given them, pretending to chuse a convenient place*
where they might live by themselves.
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they had pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out an habitation and plantation, at the N. £.
and most remote part of the island. And indeed there
they built themselves two very handsome cottages, re-
sembling our little castle, being under the side of a
mountain, with some trees already growing on three
sides of it; so that planting a few more, it would have
been obscured from sight, unless particularly sought for.
.Whon these huts were. finished, we gave them some
dry goats (kins for bedding and covering; and, on
their giving us suller sureties of their good behaviour
for the suture, we gave tfeem soms peas, barley, and
rice'for sowing, and whatever tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition,
in which they got thtir first harvest in, the quantity
of which was but small, because they had planted but
little land: For indeed, all their plantations being to
form, made it the more disficult, especially it being a
thing out of their element. And when they were
obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they could
make little or nothing of it. But the rainy season
coming on, put them into a greater perplexity, for
.want cf a cave to keep their corn dry, and prevent it
from spoiling: And so much did this humble them,
that they begged of my Spaniards to help them, to
which the good natured men readily consented, and
in four days space worked a great hole in the side of
the hill for them, large enough for their purpose, to
secure their corn and other things from the rain,
though not comparable to our's, which had several
additional apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year afterwards, which had like to have
ruined.
ruined us, and themselves tco: For it seems, being
tired and weary'of this fort of living, which made
them work themselves, without hopes of changing
their condition, nothing would serve them, but they
would make a voyage to the continent, and try if they
could not seize upon some of the savages, and bring
them over, as slaves to do their drudgery, while they
lived at ease and pleasure. .
Indeed the project. was not so preposterous; if they
had not gone farther; but they neither did, or proposed
any thing, but what had mischief in the design, or
the event. One morning these three fellows came
tlown to the limited station, and humbly defired to
be admitted to talk with us, which we readily granted.
Tjiey told us, in short, that being tired of their man-
ner of living, the labour of their hands, in such em-
ployments, not being sufficient to procure the neces-
saries of life, they only defired one of the canoes we
came over in, with some arms and ammunition, for
their. defence, and they would seek thejr fortunes
abroad, and never trouble us any more. To be sure,
we were glad enough to get rid of such wretched
plagues; but yet honesty made us ingenuously repre-
sent to them, by what we ourselves had suffered, the
certain destruction they were running into, either of
being starved to death, or murdered by the savages.
Xo this they very audaciously replied, that they nei-
ther could nor would work; and consequently^ that
they might as we)l be starved abroad as.at home: And
as to their falling into the hands of the savages ; why,'
if they were murdered, that was nothing to us, there
was an end of them; they bad neither wives or chil-
dren to cry after them :" Nay, so intent were they upon
their voyage, that if the Spaniards would not give
them arms, so they had but the canoe, they would go
without.
But though we could not well spare our fire-arms,
rather than they should go like naked men,. we let
them
them have two muskets, a pistol, a'cutlass, and three
hatchets, which were thought very susficient: We
gave them also goat's flesh, a great basket sull of
dried grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid,
and a large canoe susficient to carry twenty men. And
thus, with a mast made of a long pole, and a fail of
six large goat-skins dried, having a fair breeze, and a
floud tide with them, they sailed merrily away, the
Spaniards calling after them, Bon Veyajo, no man ever
expecting to see them again.
When they were gone, the Spaniards and Englijh-
men would often say one to another, 0 bow peaceable da
we now live since those turbulent fellows have left us!
Nothing could be farther from their thoughts than to
behold their faces any more; and yet scarce two and
twenty days had pasted over their heads, but one of
the Euglijhmen, being abroad a planting, perceived at
a distance, three men well armed, approaching to-
wards him. Away he slies with speed to our castle,
and tells me and the rest, that we were all undone, for
that strangers were landed on the island, and who
they were he could not tell, but added, that they were
not savages, but men habited, bearing arms. Why
then, said I, we have the less occasion to be concerned,
since, if they are not Indians, they must be friends;
and I am sure there is no Christian people upon earth,
but what will do us good rather than harm. But n
while we were considering of the event, up came the
three Englijhmen, whose voices we quickly knew, and
so all our admiration of that nature ceased at once.
And our wonder was succeeded by another sort of
enquiry, which was, What could be the occasion c.f
their returning sijquickly to the island, when we little
expected, and much less defired their company? But,
as this was better to be related by themselves, I ordered
them to be brought in, and they gave me the follow-
ing relation of their voyage.
After two days fail, or something less, they reached
land
land, where they found the people coming to give
them another sort of reception, than what they ex-
pected or desired ; for being armed with bows and ar-
rows, they durst not venture on shore, but steered
northward six or seven hours, till they attained to an
opening, by which they plainly perceived, that the
land that appeared from this place, was not the main,
but an island; that at their entrance into the opening
of the sea, they discovered another island, on the
right hand north, and several more lying to the west-
ward ; but being resolved to go on shore somewhere
or other, they put over to one of the western islands.
Here they found the natives very courteous to them,
giving them several roots and dried fish; nay, even
the women too, were as willing to supply them with
what they could procure them to eat,..bringing it a
great way to them upon their heads. Among those
hospitable Indians they continued some days, enquir-
ing, by signs and tokens, what nations lay around
them; and were informed, that there were several
fierce and terrible people lived every way, accustomed
tqeat mankind; but, for themselves, they never used
such diet, except those who were taken in battle, and
of them they made a solemn feast.
The Englijhmen enquired, how long it was since'they
had a feall of that kind; They answered, about two
moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to two
fingers; that at this time their king had two hun-
dred prisoners, which were fattening up for the slaugh-
ter. Mighty defirous were the Englijhmen for seeing
the prisoners, which the others mistaking, thought
that they wanted some of them for their own food:
Upon which they beckened to them, pointing to the
rising, and then to the setting of the sun; that when
it appeared in the east the next morning, they would
bring them some: And indeed they were as good as
their words, for by that time they brought 11 men
and 5 women, just as so many cows and oxen are
brought
brought so sea-port towns, to victual a fliip. . But as
brutish as these Ev.glijhmen were, their stomachs turned
at the sight. What to do in this cafe they could not
tell: To resuse the prisoners, would have been the
highest affront offered to the savage gentry; and to
dispose of them, they knew not in what manner. How-
ever, they resolved to accept them ; and so gave them,
in return, one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife,
and six or seven of their. bullets; things which,
though wholly ignorant of, they seemed entirely con-
tented with ; and dragging the poor wretches into the
boat, with their hands bound behind them, delivered
them to the Englijhmen. But this obliged them to put
off as soon as they had these presents, lest the donors.
might have expected two or three of them to be killed,
and to be invited to dinner the next day: and so tak-
ing leave, with all possible respect and thanks, though
. neither of them ,understood what they could fay, they
. failed away back to the first island, and there set eight
of the men prisoners at-liberty. In their voyage,
they endeavoured to comfort, and have some com-
munication with the poor captives; but it was im-
possible to make them sensible of any thing ; and no-
thing they could fay, or give, or do for them, could
make them otherwise persuaded, but that they were
unbound only to be devoured. If they gave them any
food, they thought it was only to fatten .them for the
slaughter ; or looked at any one more particularly, the
poor creature thought itself to be the first sacrifice:
And even when they brought them to our island, and
began. to use them with the greatest humanity and
kindness; yet they expected every day their new
masters would devour them.
And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude the unaccountable relation of their voyage,
which was both amazing and entertaining. Hereupon
I asked them where their new family was? They told
me, they had put them into one of their huts, and they
came
came to beg some victuals for them. This, indeed,
made us long to fee them; and so, taking Friday's
father with us, leaving only two at our castle, we
came down to behold these poor creatures.
When we arrived at the hut fbeing bound again by
the Englijhmen, for fear of escaping) there they all sat,
stark naked, expecting their fatal tragedy: There
were three lusty comely men, well shaped, with strait
ind fair limbs, between thirty and sive and thirty
years old; and five women, two of whom might be
from thirty to forty, two more not above four and
twenty; and the last, a comely tall maiden. of about
seventeen. Indeed all the women were very agree-
able, both in their proportion and features, except
being tawny, which their modest behaviour and other
graces made amends for, when they afterwards came
to be cloathed.
Their naked appearance, together with their mise-
rable circumstances, was no very comfortable fight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may Venture,
Sir, without flattery, to fay, are men of the best be-
haviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest natures, that
can possibly be : For they immediately ordered Friday's
father to fee if he knew any of them, or if he under-
stood what they could fay. No sooner did the old In-
dian appear, but he looked at them with great serious-
ness; yet, not being of his nation, they were utter
strangers to him, and none could understand his
speech, or signs, but one woman. This was enough
to answer the design, which was, to assure them they
would not be killed, being fallen into the hands of
Christians, who abhorred such barbarity. When they
were sully satisfied of this, they expressed their joy by
such strange gestures, and uncommon tones, as are
not possible for me to describe. But the woman, their
interpreter, was ordered next to enquire, whether they
were content to be servants, and would work for the
men who had brought them hither to save their lives?
S Here-
Hereupon (being by this time unbound) they fell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
ihoulders, raid t'other that, intimating that they were.
willing to do any thing for them. But now, Sir,
having women among us, and dreading.that it might
occasion some strife, if not blood, I asked the three
men what they would do, and how they intended to
use these creatures, whether as servants or women?
One of them very pertly and readily answered, they
v.'ould use them as both. Gentlemen, said I, as you
are your own masters, I am not going to restrain you.
.from that; but methinks, for avoiding dissensions
among you, I would only desire you to engage, That
none of you will take more than one for a woman or
a wife; and that having taken this one, none else
should presume to touch her; for though we have not
a priestly authority to marry you, yet it is but reason-
able, that whoever thus takes a woman, mould be
obliged to maintain her; since nobody else has any
thing to do with her: And this indeed appeared so just
to all present, thatitwas unanimously agreed to. Then
the Englijhmen asked my Spaniards, whether they de-
signed to take any of them? But they all answered
No; some declaring, they had already wives in Spain,
and others, that they cared not to join with infidels. .
On the reverie, the Englijhmen took each of them a
temporary wife, and set up a new method of living.
As to Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three
savage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our ancient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the island with food, as
necessity required. But the most remarkable part of
the story is, how these Englijhmen, who had been so
much at valance,. should agree about the choice of
these women; yet they took a good way enough to
prevent quarrelling among themselves. They set the
five women in one of their huts, and going them-
selves to the other, drew lots which should have the
first
first choice. Now he that had the first went to the
hut, and fetched out her he chose ; and it is remark-
able, that he that chose first, took her that was ac-
counted the most homely, and eldest of the number,
which made the rest of the Englijhmen exceeding merry,
and the Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it:
But, as it happened, the fellow had the best thought,
in chusing one fit for application and business; and
indeed she proved the best wife of all the parcel.
But, when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and separated one by one, they were
again seized with an unspeakable terror, as thinking"
they were now going to be slain in earnest: And when
the Englishman came to take the first, the rest set up a
lamentable cry, clapt their arms around her neck,
and hanging about her, took their last farewel, as
they thought, .in such trembling agonies, and affec-
tionate embraces, as would have softened the hardest
heart in the world, and made the driest eyes melt into
watery tears: Nor could they be persuaded, but that
they were going to die, till such time as Friday's fa-
ther made them sensible, that the Englijhmen had
chosen them for their wives; and so ended all their
terror and concern upon this occasion.
Well, after this, the Englijhmen went to work, and,
being assisted by my good-natured savages, in a few
hours they erected every one of them a new hut or
tent, for their separate lodging, since those they had
already were filled with tools, houshold-stuft and
provision. They all continued on the north shore os
the island, but separate as before; the three wicked
ones pitched farther off, and the two honest men
nearer hand to our castle: So that the island seemed
to be peopled in three places, three towns beginning
to be built for that purpose. And here I cannot but
remark, what is very common, that the two honest
men had the worst wives (I mean as to industry,
S 2 clean-
Cleanliness and ingenuity) while the three reprobates
enjoyed women of the contrary perfections.
But another observation I made is in favour of the
two honest men, to shew what disparity there is be-
tween a diligent application to business, on the one
hand, and a slothsul, negligent, and idle temper, on
the other. Both of them had an equal parcel of
ground laid out, and corn to sow susficient for them;
but both did not make the same improvements, either
in their cultivation or in their planting. The two
honest men had a multitude of young trees planted
about their habitations, so that when you approached
near them, nothing appeared but a wood, very pleasing
and delightsul. Every thing they did, prospered and
flourished; their grapes, planted in order, seemed as
though managed in a vineyard, and were infinitely
preferable to any of the others. Nor were they want-"
ing to find out a place of retreat; but dug a cave in
the most retired part of a thick wood, to secure their
wives and children, with their provision and chiefest
goods, surrounded with innumerable stakes, and had
the most subtle entrance, in case any mischief should
happen, either by their fellow countrymen, or the
devouring savages.
As to the reprobates (though I must own they were
much more civilized than before) instead of a delight-
sul wood surround'n2; their dwellings', we found the
words of King Solomon too truly verified: I went by
the vineyard of the Jlotbful, and it was overgrown
ivith thorns. in many places their crop was obscured
by weeds; the hedges, having several gaps in them,
the w 11 goats had got in and eaten up the corn;
and here and there was a dead bush, to stop in thofe .
gaps for the present, which was no more than shut-
ting the stable-door after the steed was stolen away.
But for their wives, they (as I observed before) were
more diligent, and cleanly enough, especially in their
victuals, being instructed by one of the honest men,
who
who was a cook's mate on board a ship: And very
well it was so, for, cooking himself, his companion
and their families lived as well as the idle husbands,
who did nothing but loiter about, fetch turtles eggs,
catch fish and birds, and any thing but work, and
they lived accordingly; while the diligent lived very
handsomely and plentisully, in the most comfortable
manner.
And now, Sir, I am come to lay before your eyes
a scene, quite different from any thing that ever hap-
pened to us before; and, perhaps, ever befel you in
all the time of your residence on this island: I shall
inform you of its original in the following manner..
One morning, Sir, very early, there cama. jive or fix
canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon .their
old custom of devouring their prisoners. All that we
could do upon such an occasion, was to lie concealed;
and they, not having any notice of the inhabitants,
would depart quietly, after performing their bloody
execution. Whoever discovered these savages first,
was to give notice to all the three plantations, to keep
within doors; and then a proper scout was to be
placed, to give us intelligence of their departure.
But, notwithstanding these wise measures, an unhap-
py disaster exposed us to the knowledge of the savages,
which had like to have caused the desolation of the
whole island: For, after the savages were gone off in
their canoes, some of my Spaniards and I, looking
abroad, and enflamed with a curiosity to sec what
they had been doing here, to our great amazement,
we beheld three savages fast asleep on the ground,
who either being gorged, could not awake when the
others went; or, having wandered too far into the
woods, did not come back in time.
What.to do with them at first, we could not tell:
As for slaves we had enough of them already; and as
to killing them, neither Christianity, nor humanity,
would suffer us to shed innocent blood, who never did
S 3 us
us wrong, and therefore had no just quarrel against
them, to justify our taking their lives away. We
perceived they had no boat left them to transport them
to their own nation ; and that, by letting thtm wan-
der about, they might discover us, and inform the first
savages thai should happen to land on the same
bloody occasion; which information might entirely
ruin us; and therefore I counselled my Spaniards to
secure them, and set them about some work or other,
till we could better dispose of them.
Hereupon we all went back, and, making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, especially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and eaten;
but we soon eased them of their fear as to that point.
We first took them to the bower, where was the chief
of our country work; as keeping goats, planting
corn, tsfc. 2nd then carried them to the two Englijb-
men's habitation, to help them in their business: But
h:ippy it was for us all, we did not carry them to our
castle, as will appear by the sequel. The Englijhmen
indeed found. them work to do; but, whether they
did not guard them strictly, or that they thought
they could not better themselves, 1 cannot tell; but
certainly one of them ran away into the woods, and
they could not hear of him fora long time after.
Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the savages re-
turning in about four week's time, and going ofF in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Sir, this
thought could not but terrify us exceedingly; and
made us justly conclude, that this savage would inform
his countrymen of our abode in the island, how few
and weak we were in comparison to their numbers;
expecting it would not be long before the Englijhmen
would be attacked in their habitations; but the sa-
vages had not seen their places of safety in the wood,
nor our castle, which it was a great happiness they
Hid not know. . Nor
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion: For about eight months after this, six ca-
noes of savages, with about ten men in each canoe,
v came sailing by the north side of the island, which
they were never accustomed to do before, and landed
about an hour after sun-rise^near a mile from the
dwelling of the two Englijhmen, who, it seems, had
the good fortune to discover them about a league oft";
so that it was an hour before they could attain the
more, and it required some longer time before they
could come at them. And being now confirmed in
this opinion, that they were certainly betrayed, they
immediately bound the two slaves which were left,
causing two of the three men, whom they had brought
with the women, and who proved very faithsul, to
lead them, with their wives, and other conveniencies,
into their retired cave in the wood, and there to bind
the two fellows hand and foot till they had surther
orders. Then they opened their fences where they
kept their milch goats, and drove them all out, giving
the goats liberty to wander in the woods, to amuse
the savages that they were wild ones; but the slave
had given a truer information, which made them
come to their very inclosures. The two frighted men
sent the other slave of the three, who had been with
them by accident to alarm the Spaniards, and defire
their assistance; in the mean time they took their
arms and ammunition, and made to .the cave where
they had sent their wives, and, securing their slaves,
seated themselves in a private place, from whence
they might behold all the actions of the savages. Nor
had they gone far, and ascended a rising ground, but
they could see a little army of Indians approach to
their beautisul dwelling ; and, in a few moments more,
perceived the fame, and their surniture, to their un-
speakable grief, burning in a consuming flame: And
when this was done, they spread here and there, search-
ing every bufli and place for the people, of whom it
was
was very evident they had information. Upon which
the two Englijhmen, not thinking themselves secure
where they stood, retreated about half a. mile farther
in the country, rightly concluding that.the farther
the savages strolled, there would be the less number
together: Upon which they took their nsxt stand
where the trunk of an old tree stood, very hollow
and large, whece they resolved to see what would offer.
But they had not stood long there, before two savages
came running directly towards them, as though,
having knowledge of their being there, they resolved
to attack them. A little farther were three more, and
five more behind them again, all running the same
way. It cannot.be imagined what perplexity the poor
men were in at this sight, thinking that, if assistance
did not speedily.come, their cave would be discovered
in the wood, and consequently all therein lost. So
they resolved to resist them there; and, when over-
powered, would ascend to the top of the trees, where
they would defend themselves as long as their am-
munition lasted, and sell their lives as dear as possible
to those devouring savages. Thus sixed upon their
resolution, they next considered whether they should
fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take
the middle party, by which the.two first and the five
last would be separated. In this regulation the two
savages also confirmed them, by turning a little to the
other part of the wood; but the three, and the
after them, came directly towards the tree. Hereupon
they resolved to take them in a direct line as they ap-
proached nearer, because the first shot might perhaps
hit them all three; and upon this occasion, the man
who was to fire charged his piece with three or four
bullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the sa-
vages came on: one of them was the run-away, who
had caused all their;mischief, so they resolved he should
not escape, if theyhoth fired at once. But however,
though they did;'hot fire together, they were ready
. ^ chargedi
charged; when the first that let fly was too good a
marksman to miss his aim; for he killed the foremost
outright; 'the second, who was the run-away Indian,
fell on the ground, being shot through the body, but
not dead; and the third was a little wounded on the
shoulder, who sitting down on the ground, fell a
screaming in a most fearsul manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes, from one side to another, but raised the birds
of all sorts, fluttering with the most consused noise, so
much terrified the five savages behind, that they stood
still at first like so many inanimate images. But when
every thing was in its first profound filence, they came
to the place where their companions lay in a miserable
condition: And here, not being sensible that they were
liable to the same fate, they slood over the wounded
man, undoubtedly enquiring the cause of his fad cala-
mity; and, as 'tis reasonable to suppose, he told them
that it came by lightning and thunder from the Gods,
having never seen or heard of a gun before, in the
whole course of their lives. By this time the Eng-
lijhmen having loaded their pieces, fired both together
a second time, when, seeing them all fall immediately
upon the ground, they thought they had killed every
creature of them. This made them come up boldly
before they had charged their guns, which indeed was
a wrong step; for, when they came to the pjace, they
sound four alive, two of them very little wounded,
and one not all, which obliged them to fall upon them
with their muskets: They first knocked the run-away
savage on the head, and another that was but a little
wounded in the arm, and then'put the other languish-
ing wretches out of their pain ; while he that was not
hurt, with bended knees, and lift up hands, made pi-
teous moans and signs to them to spare his life: Nor
were they indeed unmercisul to the poor wretch, but
pointed to him to sit down at the root of a tree hard
by, and then one of the Englijhmen, with a piece of
rope
rope twine he had in his pocket by merechance, tying
his two feet fast together, and his two hands behind
him, there they left him, making all the haste they
could after the other two, fearirg they should find out
their cave; but though they could not overtake them,
yet they had the satisfaction to perceive them, at a
distance, cross over a valley towards the sea, a quite
contrary way to their retreat: Upon which they very
contentedly returned to the tree, to look after their
prisoner; but when they came there, he was gone,
leaving the pieces of rope-yarn wherewith he was
bound behind him.. . .
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
not knowing how near their enemies might be, or in
what numbers: Immediately they repaired to their
cave, to fee if all were well there, and found every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted upon
their husbands account, whom they now loved en-
tirely. They had not been long here, before seven of
my Spaniards came to assist them; while the other ten,
their servants, and Fridays father, were gone to de-
fend their bower, corn and cattle, in cafe the savages
should have rambled so far. There accompanied the
seven Spaniards one of the three savages, that had
formerly been taken prisoner; and, with them also,
that very Indian whom the Englijhmen had, a little be-
fore, left under the tree; for it seems they pasted by
that way where the slaughter was made, and so car-
ried along with them that poor wretch that was left
bound. But so many prisoners now becoming a bur-
then to us, and fearing the dreadsul consequence of
their escaping, most of the Spaniards and Englijh urged
the absolute necessity there was for killing them, for
our common preservation: But, Sir, the authority I
bore as Governor overfwayed that piece of cruelty;
and then I ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old
cave in the valley, bound hands and feet, with two
Spaniards to guard them. So
So much encouraged were the EngUJhmen, at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their sury
against the savages, for destroying their habitations,
that they had not patience to stay any longer; but
taking five Spaniards along with them, armed with
four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-staff, away they
went in pursuit of their enemies. As they passed by
the place where the savages were slain, it was very
easy to be perceived that more of chem had been there,
having attempted to carry off their dead bodies, but
found it impracticable. From a rising ground our
party had the mortification to see the smoke that pro-
ceeded from the ruins ; when, coming farther in sight
of the shore, they plainly perceived that the savages
had embarked in their canoes, and were putting out
to sea. This they were very sorry for, there being no
coming at them, to give them a parting salutation:
But, however, they were glad enough to get rid of
such unwelcome guests.
Thus the two honesty but unfortunate Englijhmen,
being ruined a second time, and their improvements
<[uite destroyed, most of my good-natured Spaniards
helped them to rebuild, and we all helped them with
needsul supplies: Nay, what is more remarkable, their
three mischievous countrymen, when they heard it
(which was after all these disasters were over, they
living remote eastward) sympathized with them in a
very friendly manner, and worked for them several
days; so that in a little time their habitation was re-
built, their necessities supplied, and themselves restored
to their former tranquility.
The savages had nothing to boast of in this adven-
ture, several canoes being driven ashore, followed by
two drowned creatures, having undoubtedly met with
a storm at sea, that very night they departed. Nor
can it be supposed otherwise, but those, whose better
fortune it was to attain their native shore, would en-
flame their nation to another ruinous attempt, with a
greater
greater force to carry all before them. And indeed so
it happened ; for about seven months after, our island
was invaded with a most formidable navy, no less than
eight and twenty canoes sull of savages, armed with
wooden swords, monstrous clubs, bows and arrows,
and such like instruments of war, landed that evening
at the eastermost side of the island:
You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation
our men were in upon this account, and how speedy
. they were to execute their resoluti6n, having only that
night's time allowed them. They knew, that since
they could not withstand their enemies, concealment
was the only way to procure their fa/ety: And there-
fore they took down the huts that wefe built for the
two Englijhmen, and drove their flock of goats, toge-
ther with their own at the bower, to the old cave in
the valley; they left as little appearance of inhabitants
as possible, and then posted themselves with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men. As they ex-
pected, so it happened; for early the next morning
the Indians, leaving their canoes at the east end of th«
island, came running along.the shore, about two
hundred and fifty in number, as near as can be guessed.
Our army was but little indeed; and, what was our
greater misfortune, we had not arms sufficient for
them: The account, as to the men, Sir, is as follows.
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday.
3 The three savages,
taken with the wo-
men, who proved
faithfulservants.
3 Other jlaves, living
with the Spaniards.
11 Mujkets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-Pieces.
2 Sivords.
I 3 Old Halberts.
5 Mujhets, or fczvlirig
pieces, taken from
the sailors, whom
you reduced.
As to our slaves, we gave three of them halberts,
and the other three long staffs, with great iron spikes
at
I 229 j
as the end of them, with hatchets by their sides: We
also had hatchets too, sticking in our girdles, besides
the fire-arms: Nay, two of the women, inspired
with Amazonian fortitude, could not be dissuaded from
fighting along with their dearest husbands, and if they
died, to die with them. Seeing their resolution, we
gave them hatchets likewise; but what pleased them
best, were the bows and arrows (which they dexte-
rously knew the use of) that the fndians had left be-
hind them, after their memorable battle, one against
another.
This was my little army, but of great intrepidity,
"over which I was chief general and commander;
and knowing Will. Atkins, though exceedingly wicked,
yet a man of invincible courage, I gave him the power
of commanding under me: He and six men, with
their muskets loaded with six or seven bullets a-piece,
were planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as
an advanced guard, having orders to let the sirst pass
by ; and then, when we fired into the middle cf them,
make a nimble retreat round part of the wood, and
so come in the rear of the Spaniards, who were shaded
by a thicket of trees. Though the savages came on
with the fierceness of lions, yet they wanted the sub-
tilty of foxes, being out of all manner of order, and
straggling in heaps every way : And when Will. Atkins^
after fifty of the savages had passed by, had ordered
three of his men to give fire, so great was their con-
sternation, to fee so many men killed and wounded,
and hear such a dreadsul noise, and yet not know
whence it came, that they were frightened to the
highest degree ., and when the second volley was given,
they concluded no less but their companions were
slain by thunder and lightning from heaven. And in
this notion they would have continued, had Will. At-
kins and his men retired as soon as they fired, accord-"
ing to order, or had the rest been near them, to pour
in their (hot continually, there might have been a com-
T plete
plete victory obtained ; but staying to load their pie*?
again, discovered the whole matter. They wen; per-
ceived by some of the scattering savages at a distance.
who k t fly their.arrows among them, wounded Atkins
himself, and killed his fellow Englijhman, and one of
the Indians taken with the women. Nor did our
party fail to answer thcrn while they retreated, killing
above twenty savages: And here I cannot but take
notice of our poor dying slave; though ftopt from his
retreat h^.a fatal arrow, yet with his staff and hatchtt,
he desperately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and
killed five of the ravages, before his life submitted to
a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or ma-
lice of the Indians to be less remarked, in breaking the
arms, legs, and heads, of the two dead bodies, with
their clubs and wooden swords, after a most wretched
manner. Hereupon our party was obliged to inter-
pose between the savages and Atkins, who had re-
treated to a rising ground in the wood ; but after three
volleys we were obliged to retreat also; fpr they were
so very numerous and desperate, that they came. to
the very teeth of us, shot their arrows like a cloud,
and thtir wounded men, enraged with cruel pain,
fought like madmen. They did not think fit to fol-
low us, but drawing themselves up in a circle, they
gave two triumphant shouts, in token of victory;
though they had the grief to fee several os' their
wounded bleed to death before them.
After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as he was,
would have had us attack the whole body of the. sa-
vages at once: But, well pleased with the gallantry
of the man, we replied, You perceived, Seignior Atkins,
how their wounded men fought; let them alone 'till morn-
ing, when, being faint, jliff and fore, we /hall have
the fewer to combat with. To which Will. Atkins,
smiling, replied, Tliass very true, Seigniors, andfo jhull
I too; and that's the reason I would. fight them now I
i am
[ 23r J. . . .
am warm. We all answered, Seignior Atkins, for your
part, you have behaved yourself very gallantly; and
if you are not able to approach the enemy iathe
morning, we will sight for you; till then we think it
Convenient to wait.
By the brightness of the moon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder, a*x>ut their dead
and wounded men. This made us change our reso-
lution, by falling upon them in the night, if we could
give them one volley undiscovered. And tMfc we had
a fair opportunity to do, by one of the two Englijh-
men's leading us round between the woods and the
sea-side westward, and turning short south, came
privately to a pl?ce .where the thickest of them were.
Unheard, and unperceived, . eight of us fired among
them, and did dreadsul execution ; and, in half a mi-
nute after, eight more of us let fly, killing and wound-
r.ig abundance of them; and then, dividing ourselves
toto three bodies, eight persons in each body, we
marched from among the tree. to the very teeth of the
dnemy, fending forth the greatest shouts and accla-
mations. The savages, hearing a different noise from
three quarters at once, stood in the utmost consusion;
but coming in sight of us, let fly a volley of arrows,
which wounded poor old Friday, yet happily it did not
prove mortal. But rushing in suddenly among thfin,
we fired three several ways, and then fdl to work
with our swords, staves, hatchets, and the but-end of
our muskets, with such sury as could not be re'sisted;
so that setting forth the most dismal screaming and
howling, they had recourse to their feet, to save their
lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget the va-
lour of tlse two women, for they exposed themselves
to the greatest dangers, killed many with their arrows,
and valiantly destroyed feveralmore with their hatchets.
Indeed we were so much tired in fightinf these two
battles, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pur-
sue diem to their . oauoes, in which wo thought they
.' . T Z.; would
would presently put to the ocean : But there happened
a dreadsul storm at sea, which continued all that night,
and not only prevented their voyage, but dashed se-
veral of their boats to pieces against the beach, and
drove the rest so high upon the shore, as required in-
finite pains to get them oft"again. After our men had,
taken some refreshment, and a little reposes they re-
solved to go towards 'the place of their landing early
in the morning, and fee whether they were gone oft,
or in wha* posture they remained. This necessarily
led them to the place of battle, where several of the sa-
vages were expiring; a sight no way pleasing to ge-
nerous minds, to delight in their misery, though
obliged so conquer them by the law cf arms. But
our own Indian staves put them out of their pain, by
dispatching them with their hatchets. At length,
coming in view of the remainder of their army, we found
them. leaning upon their knees, which were bended to-
wards their mouths, and the head between the two
hands. Hereupon, coming within musket shot of
them, I ordered two pieces to be fired without ball, in
order to alarm them, that we might plainly know whe-
ther they had the courage to fight another battle, or
were utterl) dispirited from such an attempt, that we
misht manage them accordingly. And indeed the pro-
ject took very well; for no sooner did the savages hear
the first gun, and perceive the flash of the second, but
'they suddenly started upon their feet, in the greatest
consternation; and when we approached towards
them, they ran howling and screaming away up the
hill into the country.
We could rather, at first, have wished that the wea-
ther had permitted them to have gone off to the sea;
but, when we considered that their escape might oc-
casion the approach of multitudes to our utter ruin and
desolation, we were very well pleased the contrary
happened: And Will. Atkins, who, though wounded,
wouid not part from us all this while, advised us not to
let flip this Advantage, but clapping between them and
their boats, deprive them of the capacity of ever re-
turning to plague the island. Jknow\ said he, there is
but one objection you can make ; which is, that these crea-
tures, living like beajls in the wood, may make excursions,
rifle the plantations, and destroy the tame goats: But
then conjider, we had better have to do with an hundred
men, whom we can kill, or make staves of at leisure, than
with a hundred nations, vihom it is impossible we jhould
save ourselves from, much less subdue. This advice,
and these arguments being approved of, we set fire to
their boats; and, though they were so wet that they
would not burn entirely, yet we made them incapable
of swimming in the sea?. As foon as the Indians per-
ceived what we were doing, many of them ran out
of the woods, in sight of us, and kneeling down,
piteously cried out Oa, Oa, Waramakoa, intimating, I
suppose, that if we would but spare their canoes,
they would never trouble us again.
But all their complaints, and submiffions, and en-
treaties were in vain; for, self-preservation obliging
tis to the contrary, we destroyed every one of them
that had escaped the sury of the ocean. When the
indians perceived this, they raised a lamentable erv,
and ran into the woods, and from thenc e ranged about
the wiiole island. Hire we should have considered in-
deed, that making these creatures thus desperate, we
ought, at the fame time, to have fct a susncien,t puarfl
upon the plantations. The savages had before found
but the bower, destroyed the fences, trod the corn
down under foot, and torn up the vines and grapes.
But though we were able, upon all occasions, to light
these creatures ; yet they were too swfft for us, nor
tiurst we go out single, for fear of their numbers: But
our only comfort was, they had no weapons, nor a;iy
materials to make them ; and their extremity appeared
.in ailittle time after.
As to our own parts. the only resuge we had left,
T 3 '. wls
s m 1
vrss our stock of cattle in the valley by the cave,
with some little corn that grew there, and the plan-
tation of IVill. Atkins and his companions, one of
whom being killed by an arrow, they were now re-
duced to two. And it is remarkable, that this was
the fellow that cut the poor Indian with his hatchet,
and had a design to murder me and my countrymen,
the Spaniards. Such was our mean condition, that
we concluded to drive the savages up to the farther
part of the island, south west, at present, where no
Indians landed, killing as many of them as we coukl,
till we had reduced their number, and then give the
remainder some corn to plant, teaching them how to
live by their daily labour. Accordingly we pursued
them with our guns, at the hearing of which, they
were so terrified, that they would fall upon the ground.
Every day we killed and wounded some of them, and
many we found starved to death, so that our hearts
began to relent at the sight of such miserable objects.
At last, with great difficulty, taking one of them alive,
and using him with kindness and tenderness, we
brought him to old Friday, who talked to him, and
told him how good \re would be to them all, giving
them corn and land to plant and live in, and present
nourishment, provided they would keep within such
bounds as shouJd be allotted them, and not do preju-
dice tO; others: And therefore, said he, go your way,
and inform your cemtrymen of iii.; 'which if they will
n«t: agree to,' every one of them jhall be fain. .
The poor creatures,.thoroughly humbled, and being
rcducedi to about thirty-seven, joysully accepted the
offer^and earnestly begged for some food: Hereupon
w.e fent twelve. Spaniards, and two Englijhmen, well
armed, together with old Friday, and. three Indian
ftav«sr who marched. to the place where they were;
the staves were loaded with a large quantity of bread,
and rice cakes, leading three live goats. Being orr.
deied^to set down on the side of thehil;,.the poor
IsidiatiSi
Indians eat the victuals very thanksully, and have
proved faithsul to the last, never trespassing beyond
their bounds ; whereat this day they quietly and hap-
pily remain, and where we now and then visit them.
They are confined to a neck of land, about a mile
and a half broad, and three or four in length, on the
fouth east corner of the island, the sea being before,
and lofty mountains behind them, quite from the ap-
pearance of canoes, and whose countrymen never
made enquiry after them. We jgave them twelve
hatchets, and three of four knives; have taught them
both to build their huts, make wooden spades, plant
corn, make bread, breed tame goats and milk them,
as likewise to make wicker-work, in which I must in-
genuously confess they infinitely out-did us, making
themselves several pretty necessaries and fancies, as
baskets, sieves, . bird-cages, and cup-boards, as also
stools, beds, and couches, no less usesul than delight-
ful.: And now they live the most innocent and inof-
fensive creatures that ever were subdued in the world,
wanting nothing but wives to make them a nation. .
-Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to my
ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the. island since your
departure to this day; which, blessing us with your
presence, seems as if it would make us forget our late.
sufferings, though our losses are not sully retrieved;
and yet we have no reason to complain against the .
kind Providence of Heaven. When you inspect your
little kingdom, you will find it something improved
in general, your flocks increased, and your subjects
augmented: So that from a desolate island* as this
was before your wondersul deliverance upon it, here.
is a visible prospect of its becoming a populous, and:
well governed little kingdom, to your immortal fame.
and glory.
XhtiEnd of th Spanish Governor's Relation.
Tk,
The Continuation of the Life of Robinson Crusoe, loth
of those Pas ages that happened during the Time of his
Continuance on the If and, and after his Departure,
'till he arrived again in his native Country.
There is no doubt to suppose, but that the preced-
ing relation of my faithsul Spaniard was very agree-
able, and no less surprising, to me, the young priest,
and to all that heard it: Nor were these people less
pleased with those absolutely necessary utensils that I
brought them, as knives, scissars, spades, shovels,
and pick-axes, with which they made a mighty illus-
tration to their habitations. So much were they af-
fected to wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuit) of
«he Indians who assisted them, that when I viewed the
Englijhmen's colonies, they seemed at a distance, as
though they had lived like bees in a hive: For IVtll.
Atkins, who was now become a very industrious and
sober man, had made himself a tent of basket-work
round the outside; the walls were worked inclose
as a basket, in pannels, or strong squares of 32 in
number, standing abont 7 feet high; in the middle
was another, not above 22 paces round, but much
stronger built, being in form eight square, and in the
eight corners stood eight strong posts, round the top
of which he laid strong pieces, pinned with wooden
pins, from .which he raised a pyramid from the roof,
mighty pretty, I assure you, and joined very well to-
gether with iron spikes which he made himself; .for
}»e had made him a forge with a pair of wooden bel-
lows, and charcoal for his work, forming an anvii
put of one of the iron crows to work upon; .and in.
this manner would he make himself hooks, staples,
spikes, bolts, and hinges. After he had pitched the
roof of the innermost tent, he made it. so .firm be-
tween the rafters and the basket work, thatching that
over again with ricc-straw, and over that a large
leaf of a.tree, that hishouse was as dry as if it had
. - heen
been tiled or flated. The outer circuit was covered,
as a lean-to, quite round this inner apartment, lay-
ing long rafters from the 32 angles, to the top posts
of the inner house, about 20 feet distant; so that
there was a space like a walk within the outer
wicker-wall, and without the inner, near 20 feet in
breadth. The inner place he partitioned off with
the same wickcr-work^dividing it into six fair apart-
ments, every one of which had a door, first into the
entry of the main tent, and another into the space
and walk that was round it, not only convenient for
retreat," but for family necessaries. Those six spaces
were net taken up in the circumference. What other
apartments the outward circle had, were thus order-
ed: When you were in at the door of the outer cir-
cle, there was a passage directly to the door of the
inner house; on either side was a wicker-partition
and a door, by which you went first into a large room
22 feet wide, and about 30 long, and thro' that into
another of a smaller length; so that in the outward
circle were 10 handsome rooms, six of which were
only to be come at through the apartments ofthe inner
tent, serving as retiring rooms, to the respective
chambers of the inner circle, and four large ware-
houses which wtnt in thro' one another, two on cither
hand of the passage that led thro' the outward door
to the inner tent. In short, nothing could be built
more ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better con
veniencies: and here lived the three families, Will.
Atkins, his companion, their wives and children,
and the widow of the deceased. As to religion, the
men seldom taught their wives the knowledge of
God, any more than the sailers custom of swearing
by hi: name. The greatest improvement their wives
bad, was, they taught them to speak English so as to
be understood. None of their children were then
above six years old. They were all fruitsul enough;
and, I think, the cook's mate's wife was big of her
lktf*child. So
so much as to the Englijhmen. When I enquired of
the Spaniards, about their circumstances among the
savages, they told me, that they were a poor miser-
able handsul of people, that, having no means put into
their'hands, we're abandoned to despair, and thought
of nothing but starving. One of them confessed, that
they were in the wrong to think so, and for resusing
. the assistance that reason offered for their support, as
well as suture deliverance: that grief. was a most
insignificant passion, regarding things past remedy,
and having no hopes of the good things to come,
which was an addition to asfliction: All which veri-
sied ti is noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here: for, making ob-
servations upon my improvements, andof my condi-
tion at first, infinitely worse than their's ; he told me
that Englijhmen had, in their distress, greater presence
of mind, than those of any other country that he
had met with; and that they, and the Portuguese,
were the worst men in the world to struggle under
misfortune. When they landed'among the savages,
they found but little provision, unless they would turn
Cantbals; there being but a few roots and herbs
with little substance in their., and of which the na-
tives gave them but very sparingly. Many were the
ways they took to civilise and teach the savage*, 'but
. in vain; nor would they own them to be their instruc-
tors, whose lives were owing to their bounty. Their
extremities were very great, being many. days entirely
without food; the savages there being more in-"
dclcnt, and less devouring, than those who had better
supplies. Whenever war happened, they assisted these
people, being compelled thereto, and by which, my
faithsul Spaniard being taken, had like to have" been
devoured. They had lost their ammunition, which
rendered their fire-arms useless; nor could they use
> _ .. the
the bows and arrows that were given them; fo that
while the armies were at a distance they had no
chance, but would combat their enemies when closed,
with haib?rts, and sharpened sticks put into the mu'^-
stles of their muskets. They made themselves targets
of wood, covered with the skins of wild-beasts; and
when one happened to be knocked down, the resttif
the company fought over him till he recovered; and
then, standing close in a line, they would make their
way through a thousand savages. At the return of
their friend, who they thought had been entombed
in the bowels of their enemies, their joy was in-
conceivable. Nor Were they less surprized at the
sight of the loaves of bread I had sent them, things
that they had not seen for several years, at the fame
time crossing and blessing it, as though it was manna
sent from heaven; But when they knew the errand,
and perceived the boat, which was to carry them to
the person and place from whence such relief came,
this struck them with such a surprize of joy, that
made some of them faint away, and others burst into
tears.
This was the summary account that I had fronp
them; so that it now becomes necessary I inform the
reader what I did for them, and in what a condition
I left them. As we were all agreed tha.t the savages
would scarce trouble them any more, so we.had no
apprehensions about it. I told them I was come purely
to establish them, and not remove them; and upon
that occasicn, had not only brought them necessaries
for convenience and defence, but also artificers, and
other persons, both for their necessary employments,
and to add to their number. They were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one
by one, if they had entirely forgot their old animo-
sities, would engage in the strictest friendship, and
shake hands with one another? To this Will. Atkln^
. . t. . . ..A.
with abundance of good humour, said they had as-.
flictions enough to make them all sober, and enemies
enough to make them all friends: As for himself, he
would live and die among them; owning, that what
the Spaniards had done to him, his own mad humour
had made necessary for them to do. Nor had the Spa-
nicirds occasion to justify this proceeding tome.; but
they told me, that since Will. Atkins had behaved him-
self so valiantly in sight, and at other times shewed
such a regard to the common interest of them. all,
they had not only forgot all that was past, but thought
he ought to be as much trusted with arms and neces-
saries as any of them, which they testified by making
him command next to the Governor; and they most
heartily embraced the opportunity of giving me this
solemn assurance, that tliey would never separate their
interest again as long as they lived.
Well, upon these kind declarations of friendship,
we appointed all of us to dine together the next day,
on which I caused the ship's cook, and his.mate, to
come on shore for that purpose, and the cook's mate
on lajid assisted them in dressing cur dinner. We
brought from the ship six pieces of beef, and four of
pork, together with our punch bewl, and materials to
fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
French claret, and ten of Englijh beer, which was very
acceptable to them. The Spaniards added to our
feast five whole kids; which being roasted, three of
them were sent as fresh meat to the sailors on board,
and the other two we cat ourselves. After our merry
and innocent feast was over, I began to distribute my
cargo among them; at sirst, I gave them linen suffi-
cient to make every one of them 4 shirts, and, at the
Spaniard's request, made them up six. The thin Eng-
lijh stuffs I allotted to make every one st light coat,
like a frock, agreeable to the climate; and left them
such a quantity, as to make more upon their decay;
as also for {jumps, shoes, hats, and stockings. I can-
not express the pleasing satisfaction which fat upon the
countenances of these poor men, when they perceived
what care I took of them, as if I had been a common
father to them all; and they all engaged never to leave
the island, till I gave my consent for their departure.
Then I presented to them the people I brought; as
the taylor, smith, and the two carpenters; but espe-
cially rny Jack of all trades, was a remarkable man
among. them. My taylor fell immediately to work,
and made every one of them a shirt; aster which he
learned the women to sew and stitch, thereby to be-
come more helpsul to their husbands. Neither were
the carpenters less useful, taking in pieces their
clumsy things, instead of which .they made conve-
nient and handsome tables, stools, bedsteads, cup-
boards, Lockers and shelves. Bus when I carried
them to fee Will. y4W/».i's.basket-house, they owned
they never saw such a piece of natural ingenuity be-
fore. Tm sure, said one of the carpenters, the man
that built this has no need of us \.you. need. Sir, do'no-
thing lut give him tods. .
1 divided the topis among them in this manner: T}o
every man I gave a digging' spade, a shovel, and a
rak«,.as havrng.no harrows or plows'; and to eveijy
separate place a pick-axe,. a crow,. a broad axe,' and
a saw, with a store for a general supply, should any
be broken or worn out. I left them also nails, staples,
hinges, hammers, chislels, knives, scistars, and all
forts of tools and iron work; and for the use of the:
smith, gave them three tons of unwrought iron for a.
supply: And as to arms and ammunition, I stored
them even to prosusion, or at least sufficient to equip
a little army, against all opposcrs whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunately
starved to death) together with the maid, a pious and
well educated young woman, seeing things so well
ordered on shore (for I made them accompany me) as
also considering they had no occasion to go so long a
U voyage
voyage as to the Eajl-Indics; they both defired of me,
that I would leave them there, and enter them among
my subjects. This I readily agreed to, ordering them
a plat of ground, on which were three little houses
erected, environed with basket work, pallisadoed like
yitkins'%, and adjoining to his plantation. So con-
trived were their tents, that each of them had a room
apart to lodge in; while the middle tent was not
only their store-house, but their place for eating and
drinking. At this time the two Englijhmen removed
their habitations to their former place; so that now
the island was divided.into three colonies. Firsts these
I have just now mentioned: Secondly, that of Will
Atkins, where there were four families of Englijhmen,
with their wives and children, the widow.and her
children; the young man, and the maid, who (by
the way) we made a wife of before our departure;
three savages, who were slaves; the. taylor, smith,
(who served also as gunsmith) and my other cele-
brated person, called Jack of all Trades. Thirdly, my
Chiefest colony consisted of Spaniards, with old Friday,
at my old habitation, which was my capital city.:
And surely never was there such a metropolis before,
hid in so obscure a grove, that a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and looking purposely
for it, I believe, could not have found it; and they
had enlarged its boundaries,. both without and within,
in a secret and most surprising manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the young
French priest, of the order of St. Benedicl, whose ju-
dicious and pious discourses upon sundry occasions,
merit an extraordinary observation: Nor can his be-
ing a French Pcfijl Priejl, I presume give offence to
any of my readers, when they have this assurance
from me, that he was a person of the most courteous
disposition, extensive charity, and exalted piety. His
arguments were always agreeable to reason, and his
con-
conversation the most acceptable of any person that I
had ever yet met with in my life.
Sir (said he to me one day) since under God (at
the same time crosiing his breast) you have not only
saved my I fe, but, by permitting me to go this voyage,
have granted me the happiness of free conversation,
I think it my duty, as my profession obliges me to
save what souls I can, by bringing them to the know-
ledge of some Catholic doctrine, necessary to salva-
tion; but since they are under your immed iate go-
vernment, in gratitude, justice^ and decency, for
what you have done for me, I mall offer no farther
points in religion, than what shall merit your.appro-
bation. Pleased with ths modesty of his carriage, I
told him he should not be the worse used for being of
a different persuasion, if, upon that very account, we
did not differ in points of faith, not becoming in 9
country, where the poor Indians ought to bs instructed
in the knowledge of the true God, and his Son Jesus
Christ. To this he replied, That conversation might
easily be separated from disputes; that he would dis-
course with me rather as a gentleman than a religious;
but, if we did enter upon religious arguments, upon
my defiring the fame, that I would give him liberty
to defend his own principles. Hi surther added,
that he would. do all that became him in his office, as
a priest, as well as a christian, to procure the happiness
of all that were in the ship ; that though he could not
pray with, he would pray for us, on all. occasions:
And then he told me several extraordinary events of
his life within a few years past, but particularly in this
last, which was the most remarkable: That in this
voyage he had the misfortune to be five times shipped
and unshipped. His first design was to have gone to
Afartimco, for which he took ship at St. Malo, but was
forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the vessel running
aground in the mouth of the Tagus: That from thence
he went on board a Portuguese ship bound to the Ma-
dtiras, whose master being but an indifferent mariner,
and out of his reckoning, they were d'ove to Fial,
where selling their commodity, which was corn, they
resolved to take in their loading at the Me of May,
and to sail to Newfoundland; at the banks of which
they met a French Ihip, bound to Quebec, in the river
of Canada, and from thence to Martinico: In this
Ihip he embarked, the master of which dying at Que-
bec, that voyage was suspended: And lastly, shipping
himself for France, that ship was destroyed by the
sury of the flames, as before has been related: And
so our discourse end':d for that time.
Another morning he comes to me, just as I was
going to visit the Euglijlmiens colony,. and tells me,
That as he knew the prosperity of the island was my
principal defire, so he had something to communicate
agreeable to my design, and perhaps might put it,
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of the
benediction of heaven. How, Sir ! said I in a surprize,
are we not yet in the way of God's blessing, after
all these signal providencies and deliverances, of which
you have had such an ample relation? He replied, I
hope, Sir, you are in the way, and that your good
design will prosper; but still there are some among
you that are not equally right in their actions: Ana
. remember, I beseech you, Sir, that Achan, by his
crime, removed God's blessing from the camp of the
Children of Israel; that, though six and thirty were.
entirely innocent, yet they became the obiects of di-
vine vengeance, and bore the weight of the punish-
tnent accordingly.
So sensibly was I touched with.this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that en flamed his
soul, that I defired him to accompany me to the Eng-
lijhmen* plantations, which he was very glad of, by
reason these were the subjects of what he designed to
discourse with me about. So we walked on together,
and then he began in the following manner:
E 2*5 X
Sir, .said he, I must confess it isa great unhappineis
thatwe disagree in several doctrinal articles of relU
gion; but yet this we acknowledge, that there is a
GOD, who, having given us some stated rules for
our service and obedience, we ought not willingly and
has commanded, or doing what he has forbidden:
And this too is owned by every Christian, that when-
ever any persons presumptuously sin against God's
command, the Almighty withdraws his blessing from
them ; and therefore every good man ought to prevent
soch neglect of, or sin against God and his commands,
so long as any persons are under his care. ''Hereupon
I thanked him for expressing so great a concern for us,
and defired him to explain the particulars of what he
had observed,; that according to the parable os' Achan,
I might remove that accursed thing from. us. Why
then, Sir, said he, in the first place, you.have four
Englijhmen, who, having taken savage women to
their wives, by whom they bave had several children.,.
and yet not legally married, as the laws of God and
man require; they, I fay, Sir, aœ no lessi than adul-
terers, and, living in adultery, are liable to the curse
of God. I know, Sir, you may object the w.atis of.
a priest or clergymen of any kind; as also pen, istk
and paper, to write down a contract of mai*iage, and'.
have it signed between them. But neither this, nor
what the Spanijh Governor has told you.,; of their.
chusing by consent, can be reckoned a masria'g«j "nor.
any more than an agreement to keep them frtim. quar-
relling among themselves: For, Sir^ theefl'encebr sa-
crament of matrimony (.fo he called'it )~not only con-
sists in mutual consent, btiP i».the.legal'obligation
which compels. them. to own~ and acknowledge one
another, to abstain from ether persons, the meii'to pro-
i vide for their wives and children, and the women to
the fame, or like conditions* mutatis mutandis.t on their
side; whereas these men, Sir, upon.their own plea-

U 3'.
sure,.
sure, or any occasion, forsake these women to marry
others, and by disowning their children, suffer them
utterly to perish. And now, Sir, added he, can God
be honoured in such an unlawsul liberty as this? How
can a blessing succeed the best endeavours, if men
are allowed to live in open adultery? Indeed I was
struck with the thing itself, and they were much to
blame that .no formal contract had been made, though
it had been breaking a stick between them, to engage
them to live as man and wife, never to separate, but
love, cherish, and comfort one another all their lives.
But, Sir, said I, when they took these women, I was
not here; and if it is adultery, 'tis past my remedy,
and I cannot help it. 'Tis true, Sir, answered the young
Priest, you cannot be charged with that part of the
crime which was done in your absence: But, I be-
seech you don't flatter yourself that you are under no
obligation now to put a period to it; which, if you
neglect to do, the guilt will be entirely on you alone,
since it is certainly in nobody's power but your's to
alter their condition. I must confess I was so dull,
that I thought he meant I should part them, which,
knowing it would put the whole island in consusion,
I told him I could not consent to upon any account
whatsoever. Sir, said he in a great surprize, I do not
mean that you should separate, but marry them: I
mean your way, by a written contract, signed by
both man and woman, and by all the witnesses pre-
sent, which all the European laws decree to be of suf-
ficient efficacy. Amazed with such true piety and
sincerity, and considering the validity of a written
contract, I acknowledged all that he said to be very
just and kind, and that 1 would discourse with the men
about it: Neither could I see what reason they could
have not to let him marry them, whofe authority in
that affair is owned to be as authentic as if they were
married l>y any of our clergymen in England.
f 2+7 I
Thz next complaint he had to make me was this,
That these Englijh subjects of mine, having lived with
these women seven years, who being of good under-
standing, and capable of instruction, having learnt
them not only to spea!^, but to read Englijh; all this
while they had never taught them any thing of the
Christian religion, or the knowledge of God; much
less in what manner he ought to be served. And is
not this an unaccountable neglect? said he, warmly.
Depend upon it, God Almighty will call them to ac-
count for such contempt. And though I am not of <
your religion, yet I should be glad to see these people
released from the devil's power, and be saved by th« 1
principles of the Christian religion, the knowledge of
God, of a Redeemer, the resurrection, and of a suture
state. But, as it is not yet too late, if you please to
give me leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I shall
supply this great defect, by bringing them into the
great circle of Christianity, even while you continue
in the island. . .
I could hold no longer, but, embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what he
requested; and defired him to proceed in the third ar-
ticle, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, said he, it should be a maxim among all Chris-
tians, That Christian knowledge ought to^be propa-
gated by all possible means, and on all occasions.
Upon this account, our church fends missionaries into
Perjia, India, and China, men who are willing to die
for the fake of God, and the Christian faith, in or-
der to bring poor infidels into the way of salvation.
Now, Sir, here is an opportuuity to convert seven
and thirty poor savages, that I wonder how you can
pass by such an occasion of doing good, which is
really worth the expence of a man's whole life. .
I must confess I was so confounded at his discourse,
that I could not tell how to answer him: Sir, said he,
seeing me in disorder, I shall be very sorry if I have
given
given you offence: No, Sir, said I, I'm rather con-
founded; and you know my circumstances, that be-
ing bound to the Eajl-Indies, in a merchant-ship, I
cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain the
ship here, the men lying at victuals and wages on
their account. If I stay above twelve days, I must pay
3/. sterling, per diem, demorage, nor must the ship
stay above eight days more, so that I'm unable to en-
gage in this work, unless I would leave the ship, and
so be reduced to my former condition. The priest,
though he owned this was hard upon me, yet laid it to
my conscience, whether the blessing of saving. seven
and thirty souls, was not worth venturing all that I
had in the world? Sir, said I, 'tis very true; but, as
you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally falls into your pro-
fession: why therefore don't ycu rather offer to under-
take it yourself, than press me to it? Upon this he
turned about, making a very low bow, I most hum-
bly thank God and you, Sir, said he, for so blessed a
call, and most willingly undertake so gldrious an of-
fice, which will susficiently compensate all the disfi-
culties and hazards I have gone through, in a long
and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like fire; with all
the signs of the most zealous transports. And wken
I asked whether he was in earnest? Sir, said he, it was
to preach to the Indians I consented to come along
with you; these infidels, even kv this little island, are
insinitely »f more worth thin my podr life 5 and," so
I am the happy instrument of saving these ponr crea-
tures fouls* I a are not if I never see my. native coun-
try again. The only thing Ifceg of you *ioTe is,i thai
i you would leave Friday with me* tjo be my'interpreter,
.without whose assistance neither of us wit!' understand
each.other-; N . .. .' ';. .
. Thwieipwst yery sensibly. troubled me, fiHVupon
* .. . Friday's
Friday's being bred a Protestant, and secondly for the
asfection I bore to him for his sidelity: But imme-
diately the remembrance of Friday's father coming
into my head, I recommended him to him, as having
learned Spanijh, which the Priest also understood, and
so was thoroughly satissied with him.
When.we came to the Englijhmeni after I had told
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they led; told
them what notice the Clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men, or batchelors £
They answered two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said I, with what
consciences can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawsully
married? They all said, that they took them before
the Governor as such, having nobody else to marry
them, which they thought as legal as if they had a
parson. No doubt, said I, but in the fight of God you
are so ; but, without I am assured of your honest in-
tent never to desert these poor creatures, I can do no-
thing more for you, neither can you expect God's
blessing while you live in such an open course of adul-
tery. Hereupon Will. Atkins, who spoke for the rest,
told me, that they believed their wives the most inno-
cent and virtuous creatures in the world; that they
would never forsake them while they had breath ; and
that if there was a clergyman in the ship, they would
be married to them with all their hearts. I told you
before, said I, that I have a minister with me, who
shall marry you to-morrow morning, if you are wil-
ting ; so I would bave you consult to-night with the
rest about it. I told him the clergyman was a French-
man, and knew not a word of Englijh, but that I
would act as a clerk between them. And indeed this
business met with such speedy success, that in a few>
minutes after they all told me, they were ready to
be formally married as soon as I pleased, with which
. . . informing
informing the Priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women were
to be made sensible of the meaning of the thing,
with which being well satisfied, they and their huf-
pands attended at my apartment the next morning:
There was my Priest, habited in a black vest, some-
thing like a cassock, with a fash round it, much re-
sembling a Minister, and I was his interpreter. But
the seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he
made of marrying the women who were not bap-
tized, gave them an exceeding reverence for his per-
son: Nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he
obtained my liberty to discourse both with the men
and women; and then he tpld them, That, in the
fight of all indifferent men, and in the sense of the
laws of society, they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now, but their consent to marry, or
sinal separation, could put an end to; and even here
was a difficulty, with respect to the laws of Christiani
matrimony, in marrying a professed Christian to aft N
Heathen idolater, unbaptized; but yet there was time
enough to make them profess the name of Christ,
without which nothing could be done; that besides,
he believed themselves very indifferent Christians, and
consequently had not discoursed witJi their wives on
that subject; and that unless they promised him to da
so, he could not marry them, as being expressly for-
bidden by the laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily:
But, Lord, Sir, said Will. Atkins to me, how should
we teach them religion, who know nothing of it our-
selves? and should we talk to our wluesof God, Jesus
Christ, Heaven and Hell, they would only laugh at
us, who never yet have practised religion, but on the
contrary all manner of wickedness. Will. Atkins^
soid I, can't you tell your wife ihe's in the wrong,
and that her Gods are idols, which can neither hear,
speak or understand .> but that our God, who. has made^
4" . can
can destroy all things ; that he rewards the.good, and
punishes the wicked ; and at last will bring us to judg-
ment: Can't you tell her these things? That's true,
said Atkins; but then she'll tell me, 'tis utterly false,
since I am hot punished and sent to the devil, who
have been such a wicked creature. These words I
interpreted to the Priest: O! said he, tell him his re-
pentance will make him a very good minister to his
spouse, qualifying him to preach on the niercy and
long-suffering of a mercisul Being, who desires not
1 the death of a sinner; that he even defers damnation
to the last judgment, which will lead to the doctrine
of it, and will make him an excellent preacher to his
wife. This I repeated to Atkins, who being more
than ordinary affected with it, replied, I know all
this, Sir, and a great deal more? but how can I have
the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when.my con-
science witnesses against me? Alas! (said he, with
tears in his eyes; and giving a great sigh) as for re-
penting that is for ever past me. Past you! Jtiins,
said I, what do you mean? I know well enough, sai(i
he, what I mean, I mean 'tis too late. . ..
When I told the Priest what he said, the poor affec-
tionate man could not refrain from weeping: But rer
covering himself, Pray, Sir, said he, ask him, if he is
contented that it is too late; or is he concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put fairly to
Atkins, who replied in a paffion, How can I be easy
in a state of damnation, which I know must termi-
nate in my ruin: For I really believe some time or
other, I shall cut my throat, to put a period both to
my life and to the terrors of my conscience. ^
At this the clergyman shook his head: Sir, said he,
pray tell him it is not too late! Christ will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of the
passion. Docs he think. he is beyond the power of
Divine mercy? There may indeed be a time when
provoked mercy will no longer strive, but never too
late for men to repent in this world. I told Atkins
every word the Priest had said, who then parted from
us to talk to his wife, while we discoursed with the
rest : But those were very stupid in religious matters,
yet all of them promised ta do their endeavours to
make their wives turn Christians; and, upon these
promises, the Priest married the three couple. But,
as Atkins was the only sincere convert, and of more
fense than the rest, my Clergyman was earnestly en-
quiring after him: Sir, said he, let's walk out of this
labyrinth, and I dare fay we shall find this poor man
preaching to his wife already. And indeed we found
it true ; for, coming to the edge of the wood, we per-
ceived Atkins and his savage wife, sitting under the
shade of a bush in very earnest discourse: He pointed
to the fun, to the quarters of the earth, to himsels,
to her, the wood, and the trees. Immediately we
could perceive him start upon his feet, fall down upon
his knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the
tears ran down my Clergyman's cheeks; but our great
misfortune was, that we cou/d not hear one word
that passed between them. Artother time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kiffing
her with the greatest transports, and then both kneeled
down for some minutes together. Such raptures os
joy did this occasion in my yo^yig Priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself: Arid a little after this,
we observed by her motion, as frequently lifting up
her hands and laying them on her breast, that she
was mightily affected with his doctrine ; and so they
withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both waiting
to be called in; upon which we agreed to examine
him alone, and so I began thus to discourse him. Pri-
thee, Will. Atkins, said I, what education had you?
What was your father?
JV. A. A better man than ever I shall be : He was,
Sir, a Clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
cor-
correction, which I despised, like a brute as I was, and
murdered my poor father.
Priest. Ha! a murderers
* Here the Priest Jlarted and looked pale, as
thinking he had really killed his father.
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his throat, but broke
his heart by the most unnatural return of disobedience
to the tenderest and best of fathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance; I
did not alk you to extort a confession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good, than your companions.
W. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past
life, my conscience upbraids me with my father; the
fins against our parents make the deepest wounds,
and their weight lies the heaviest on the mind.
R. C. You talk, J^'/A too feelingly and sensibly
for me: I am not able to bear it.
W. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do; and every shore, val-
ley, ind tree in this island, witness the anguish of my
foul for my undutisulness to my kind father, whom I
have murdered likewise; yet m) repentance falls in-
finitely short of yours. But, 0ill, how comes the
sense of this matter to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, the work you have set me about has
occasioned it; for, talking to my wife about God and
religion, she has preached me such a sermon, that I
shall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R. C. No, no, .'tis your own moving pious argu-
ments to her, has made conscience fling them back
upon you. But, pray, Atkins, inform us what passed
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin?
W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the
reason of such compacts, whereby order and justice
is maintained; without which, men would run from
X their
^%&». '. [ 254 3
fneaHfeves and children, to the dissolution of fami-
lies and inheritances. '.*
R. C. Well, and what did she fay to all this?
TV. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the following
manner, which I shall repeat exactly,according to my
mean capacity, if you think it worth your while to
honour it with your attention.
the DI A.L O G U E between Will. Atkins, and bis
TVife in the Wood.
Wife.'XT O U tell me marriage God appoint.: have
I you God in your country?
TV. A. Yes, child, God is in every nation. " .
Wife. No, great old Benamuckee God is my coun-
try, not yours.
IV. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he
made, the earth, the sea, and all therein".
[Vise. Why you not tell me much long ago?
TV. A. My dear, I've been a wicked wretch, hav-
ing a long time lived without the. knowledge of God.
in the world.
TVife. What, not know great God in own nation'?
No do good ting? No fay O to him ? That's
Grange!
TV. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no
God in heaven for all that.
. TVife. Why God suffer this? Why makee not five;
well?
TV. A. It is our own faults, child.
Wife. But if he much great, can makee kill, why
no makee kill when no serve him? no be good mans,
no cry Q to him?
TV. A. That.is true, my dear, he may strike Us
dead, but his abundant mercy spareth^us.
TVife. Did not.you tell God tahkee for that.?
TV. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
merev, nor feared him for his power.
'' Wist
1
Wife. Then mejiot believe your God be good, noT
makee kill, when you make him angry. . . *'"
TV. A. Alas! must my wicked life hinder you from
believing in him.''
[ Wife. How can me tink your. God live there?
(pointing to heaven) Sure he no tell what you do
there.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees.
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makec power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn ?.
. W.A. My dear, this shews he is indeed a God,
and not a man who has not such tender mercy. . y.
Wife. Mercy ! what you call mercy?
W. A. He pities and spares us; as he is our great
creator, so also is he our tender. father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked,
then he no good, no great mighty.'"'
- W. A. O, my dear, don't fay so', he is both; and
many times he shews terrible examples of his judgs-
ment and vengeance.
Wife. Then you makee de bargain. with him;
you do bad ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other
mans.
'W.A. No indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
his goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead? and you
give him no thankee neither?
W. A. 'Tis. true, I am an ungratesul, unthanksul
dog, that I am.
Wife. Why you fay,'he makee you, why makee
you no much better then?
W. A. 'Tis I alone that have deformed myself, and
abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him .angry, no do bad thing. \
W. A. You mean, my dear, that you defire I would
teach you to know God: Alas! poor dear creature!
X 2 he
he must teach thee, and not I. But I'll pray earnestly
so him to direct thee, and to forgive me, a miserable
sinner. Hereupon I went a little distance, and, kneel-
ing down, prayed earnestly to God to enlighten her
mind and to pardon her sins: When this was done,
we continued our discourse thus. . ....> .
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission to
htm that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
what you fay? . .. .
W, A. Yes, my dear, he bids us prav, and has
gived his promise that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid us pray? What, do you
hear him speak?
W..A. No, my dear, but God has spoken formerly
to good men from heaven; and by divine revelation,
they have written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. O, where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me ; but, one time or
.other, I shall get it for you to read. Then he em-
braced her with great asfection.
Wish. Pray tell-a me how God teachee them write
that book i
W. A. By that rule we know him to be God.
Wife. What way what rule you know him f
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy ; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do all
things you fay he do, surely he hear me say O to him;
he makee me good, if I wish to be good; he no kill
me, if I love him; metink, believe him great God;
me say O to him along with you, my. dear.
Hear the poor man fell upon his knees, and made
her kneel down by him, praying in the greatest fer».
vency,
vency that God would instruct her by his holy spirit;
and that some time God, by his providence, would
fend them a Bible for both their instruction. And such
was the early piety of this new convert, that she made
him promise never to forsake God any more; lest, be-
ing made dead, as she called it, she should not only want
her instructor,but himself be miserable in along eternity.
Such a surprising account as this was, proved very
affecting to us both, but particularly to. the young
Clergyman,who was mightily concerned he could not
talk. to her himself: Sir, said he, there is something
more to be done to this woman than to marry her:
Lmean that she ought to be baptized. To this I pre-
sently agreed: Pray, said he again, ask her husband,
whether he has ever talked to her of JesusChrist, the
salvation of sinners, the nature of faith and redemp-
tion in and by him, of the holy spirit, the resurrec-
tion, last judgment, and a suture state; but the poor
fellow melted into tears at this question, faying,.
that he had said something to her of these things, but
his own conscience terrifying' him with the most
dreadsul apprehensions, he was afraid lest her knowledge
of it should rather make her contemn religion, than,
embrace it; but if I would discourse with her, it was
probable my labour would not be in vain. According-
ly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
bftween the. religious priest and the woman, .1 en« .
treated him to goon: But surely never was such a
sermon preached by any clergyman in. these latter
days of the world, which had so much zeal, know-
ledge and sincerity : in short, .he brought the woman.
to embrace the knowlege of Christ, .and of redemption
by him, with so surprising a.degrce of understanding,
that she made it her own request to be baptized.
And now he performed his office in the sacrament
of.Baptism, first by faying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then, asking me to give h'jr a name; as
being her godfather, he poured. a whole dishsul of
X. 3 . . Walter
water upon the woman's head, faying, MARY, I
baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, so that none could know
what religion he was of; and after, he pronounced the
benediction in Latin. Thus, the woman being made
a Christian, he married her to Will. Atkins, which be-
ing finished, he affectionately exhorted him to lead a
holy life for the suture; that, since the Almighty, by
the convictions of his conscience, had honoured him
to be the instrument of his wife's conversion, he should
not dishonour the grace of God, lest, while the savage
was converted, the instrument should be cast away*
And thus ended the ceremony, which made it the most.
pleasant and agreeable day I ever passed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man, whose
mother was starved, came to me, faying, That, as
he understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englijhmen with savages, he had a match
to make between two Christians, which he defired
might be finished before I departed. But, thinking it
was himself that had courted his mother's maid, I
persuaded him not to do any thing rashly upon the ac-
count of his solitary circumstances; that the maid
was an unequal match for him, both in respect to sub-
stance and years; and that it was very probable he
would live to return to his own country, where He
might have a far better choice. At these words, he
smilingly interrupted me, thanking me for my good
advice; that, as he had nothing to beg of me, but a
small settlement, with a servant or two, or some few
necessaries ; so he hoped I would not be unmindsul of
him when.I returned to England, but give his letters
to his friends; and that, when he was redeemed, the
plantation, and all its improvements, however va-
luable, should be returned to me again: But, as for
the marriage he proposed, why truly it was between
my Jack of all Trades, and the maid Susan.
'Indeed
Indeed I was agreeably surprised at the mentioning
this match, which seemed very suitable ; the one be-
ing a very ingenious fellow, and the other an excel-
lent, dexterous, and sensible house-wife, fit to be
governess of the whole island: So we married them
the fame day ; and as I was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, and appointed
her and her husband a large convenient space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land to them, I left to Will. Atkins, who really very
justly divided it to every person's satisfaction : They
only defired one general writing, under my hand, for
the whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed and
sealed to them, setting out their bounds, and giving
them a right to the whole possession of thtir respective
plantations, with their improvements, to them and
their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as my
own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after 11 years. As to their laws and go-
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another: And
as to the Indians, who lived in a neck by themselves,
I allotted three or four of them plantations, and the.
rest willingly chose to become servants to all the other
families, by which means they were employed in use-
sul labour, and fared much better than they did be-
fore. Thus the savages, being mixed with the
Christians, the work of the conversion of the Indians
might be set on foot by the latter, in the clergyman's
absence, to our equal satisfaction. But how, said the
young Priest, shall I know that the Christians will do
their parts to instruct them ; I told him we would call
them all together, that he should speak to the Spa-
niards, who were Papists, arid I to the.Englijh, who
were Protestants, and make them promise that they
would never make any distinction in religion, but teach
the general true knowledge of God, and his Son Jesus
Christ, in order to convert the poor savages: And
this indeed they all promised us accordingly. . '.
When
s 260 7
When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found his
baptized wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all Trades, were become great inti-
mates, and' discoursing of religion together: O Sir,
said Will. Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile
to himself,'he never wants an instructor: I knew I
was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore this
young woman has been sent hither, as it were from
heaven, who is sufficient to convert a whole island of
savages. The )oungwoman blushed, and was going
to rife, but I defired her to sit still, and hoped that God
would bless her in so good a work \ And then, pulling.
ont a Bible, which I brought on purpose in my
pocket for him ; here Atkins, said I, here is an assistant
that perhaps you had not before. So confounded was
the poor man, that it wa* some time before he could
speuk; at last, turning to his wife, my dear, said he,
did i not tell you that God could hear what we said i
Here is the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled
under the bulh: God then heard us, and now has
sent it. The woman Was surprised, and thought God
had really sent that individual book from heaven ; but
I turned to the young woman, and defired her to ex-
plain to the new convert, that God may properly be
said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of
his Providence, such particular things as we petitioned
for come to pass. This the young woman did ef-
fectually ; but surely Will. Atkins's joy cannot be ex-
pressed, no man in the world being more thanksul for
any thing, than he was for this bible, nor defire it
from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I defired the young
woman to give me an account of the anguish she felt .
when she was starving to death for hunger; to which
she readily consented, and began in the following
manner:
"Sir, said she, all our victuals being gone, after
I.had fasted one day,. my stomach was very sickisb,
aud.
and, at the approach of night, I was inclined to
yawning and sleeping. When I sleptupon the couch
three hours, I awaked a little refreshed: Three hours
after, my stomach being more and more sickish, I laid
down again, but could not sleep, being very faint and
ill. ^ Thus I pasted the second day in a strange va-
riety, first hungry, then. sick again, with Teachings
to vomit. That night I dreamt that I was at Barba-
thts, buying plenty of provisions, and dining heartily.
But when I awaked, my spirits were exceedingly sunk
to find myself in the extremity of famine. There
was but one glass of wine, which being mixed with
sugar, I drank up; but, for want of substance to di-
gest upon, the sumes of it got into my head; and
made me senseless for sometime. The third day, I
was so ravenous and surious, that I could iiave eat a
little child had it come in my way; during which
time I was as mad as any creature .in Bedlam. In
one of these fits I fell down, and struck my face a-
gainst the corner of a pallet-ked, where tny mistress
lay : The blood gushed out of my nose, but by my
excessive bleeding, bath the violence of the fever,and
the ravenous part of the hunger abated. After* I grew
sick again, strove to vomit, but could not; then bleed-
ing a second time, I swooned away as dead; coming
to myself again, I had a dreadsul gnawing pain at my
stomach, which went off towards night with a long-
ing defire for food. I took a draught of water and
sugar, but it came up again; then 1 drank water with-
out sugar, and that stayed with me. I laid me down
on the bed, praying God he would take me away;
after I had slumbered, I thought myself a-dying, there*
fore recommending my soul to God, wished somebody
would throw me into the sea* . AU this while my de-
parting mistress lay by me. The last bit of bread she
had, she gaye to her dear child, my young master.
The morning after, I fell into a violent passion of
crying, and after that into hunger. I espied the blood
'. . that
that came srom my nose in a bason, which I imme-
diately swallowed up. At night I had the usual vari-
ations, as pain in the stomach, sick, fleepy, and Ra-
venous ; and I had no thoughts but that I should die
before morning. Now came on a terrible griping in
my bowels ; then I heard my young master's terrible
lamentations, that his mother was dead! And, soon
after the sailors cried, a sail, a sail, hallooing as if
they were distracted, for joy of that relief, which we
afterwards received from your hands.
Surely this is such a distinct account of starving to
death, that I believe few ever met with the like: Bu t
to return to the disposition of things among my peo-
ple. I did not take any notice to them of the floop
that I had framed, neither would I leave them the two
pieces of brass cannon, or the two quarter-deck gurrs
that I had on board; lest, upon any disgust, they
should have separated, or turned pyrates, and so
made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plan-
tation of sober pious people. But, without these
things, leaving them in a flourishing condition, with
a promise to send them surther relief from Bra/il,
as sheep, hogs, and cows (being obliged to kill the
latter at sea, having no hay to feed them) I went on
board the ship again the first of May, 1605, having
been twenty days among them; and the next morn-
'inggiving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set fail for the Brasds; but the third day, to-
wards evening, there happening a calm, and yet be
ing by a strong current drove to the N. N. E. to-
wards the land side, we perceived the sea covered as
it were with something very black, not eafily to be
discovered at first : Upon which, our chief mate as-
cending the shrouds a little way, and taking a view
with a perspective-glass, he cries out, It is an army.
An army, you fool! said I, What do you mean?
Nay, Sir, said he, don't be angry; I aflure you 'ti$
aot only an army, but a sleet too; I believe there
are
are a thousand canoes paddling along, and making
haste towards us too.
"Indeed every one of us were surprised at this rela-
tion ; and my nephew, the captain, could not tell
what to think of it, but imagined we should all be de-
voured'. Nor was I free from concern, when I consi-
dered how much we were becalmed, and what a strong
current set towards the shore : However, I encourag-
ed him not to be afraid, but bring the ship to an an-
chor,. as soon as we were certain that we must engage
them. We accordingly did so, and surled all our sails:
As to the savages, we feared nothing but their setting
the ship on fire; to prevent which, I ordered them
I to get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by
jhe head and the other by the stern, well manned,
with sheets and buckets to extinguish the flames,
shouW it so happen. But when the savages came up,
they were a horrid sight indeed, but there were not
so marjy a.s the mate had said; for, instead of a thou-
sand casloei", there were about one hundred and twen-
ty, though indeed they were too many, several of these
C&noss containing above sixteen or seventeen men.''
''' 'AjsVhey approached near us, they seemed to be in the
greatest amazement, and not knowing what to make
of 'li^they rowed round the ship, which occasioned
u$'"1&Wll to the men in the boats, not to suffer them
ftri:orrfe hear them. Hereupon they beckoned to the sa-
vages to keep back, which they accordingly did ; but,
at their retreat, they let fly about 50 arrows among
us, and very much wounded one of our men in the
long- boat. I called to them not to fire upon'any ac-
count, but handing them down some deal boards/'thfi
carpenters made them a kind of fence to Afield 'them
fr6m the arrows. In half an hour after, they came
so near a-stern of us, that we had a perfect fight: cjf
them; then they rowed a little farther put, till they
came directly broad side with us, and thert approached
so near as they could hear us speak. Th is made me order
all
all our men to keep close, and get their guns ready 5
in the mean time I orderedj Friday to go out upon
deck, and ask them in his language what they meant.
No sooner did he so, but six of the savages, who
were in the'foremost canoe, stooping down, shewed
us their naked backsides, as much as to fay in Englijh,
kiss our ;but Friday quickly knew what this
meant, by immediately crying out they were gbing to
shoot, unfortunately for him poor creature ! who fell
under a cloud of three hundred arrows, no less than
seven piercing thro' his bodv, killing one of the best
of servants, and faithsulest of companions in all my
solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
I ordered the guns, which were charged before only
with powder to frighten them, to be loaded with small
shot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim, but, at
this broad-side, split and overset thirteen or fourteen
of their canoes, no doubt killed several of them, and
set the rest a swimming: The others, frightened out
of their wits, little regarding their fellows a drown-
ing, scoured away as fast as they could; but our men
took up one poor wretch, swimming for bis life, an
hour after. He was so sullen at fiist, that he would
neither eat nor speak; but I took a way to cure him,
by ordering them to throw him into the sea, which
they did, and then he came swimming to them like a
cork; calling, in his tongue, I suppose, to save him.
So we took him .on board, but it was a long time be-
fore we could make him speak or understand Englijh;
yet, when we taught him, he told us, they were go-
ing with their kings to sight a great battle: And when
we asked him what made them come up to us? He
said, To makee de great wonder look. By which it is to
be noted, that these natives, and those of Africa, al-
ways add two E's at the end of Englijh words, as
makee takee, and the like, which it is a very difficult
thing to break them of.
• And
And now being under sail, I cannot but take my las!
farewel of poor honest Friday! And indeed' we in-
terred him with all possible decency and solemnity*
by putting him into a coffin, and committing him to
the deep, at the same time causing eleven guns to be
fired for him: And thus ended the life of one of the
most gratesul, faithsul, honest, and affectionate ser-
vants, that ever any man was blest with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for Bra/il, in about twelve
days time, we.made land in the latitude of five de-
grees south of the line. Four days we kept on S. by
E. in sight of the shore, when we made Cape St. Au-
gustine^ and, in three days, we came to an anchor
off the Bay of All Saints. But it was with great diffi-
culty I obtained leave to hold correspon "once here
on shore for neither the sigure of my partner, my
two merchant trustees, nor the.fame of my wonder-
sul preservation in the island, could procure me that
favour, till such time as the Prior of the monastery of
the AugujYmes (to whom 1 had given 500 moidores)
obtained leave from the Governor for me personally,
with the captain, and one more, together with eight
sailors, to come on shore, and, upon this condition,
that we should not land any goods out of the ship, or
carry any person away without licence: But, howe-
ver, with difficulty, J got on shore three bales of
Englijb goods, as fine broad cloth, stusfs, and some
linen, which I brought as a present for my partner,
who had sent me on board a present of fresh provi-
sions, wine, and sweet-meats, worth above thirty
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four
fine gold medals.
And now I delivered my partner, in goods, to the
value of iool. sterling, and obliged him to set up the
sloop I brought for the use of my island, in order to."
send them refreshments: Nor did he fail in this,
but had the Tessel finished in a few days, to the master
of which I gave particular instructions to find the
place. I soon loaded him with a small cargo, and one
of my sailors offered to fettle there, upon my letter to
.the Spanijh Governor, if I would allot him tools and
a plantation. This I willingly granted, and gave
him the savage we had taken prisoner to be his Have.
All things being ready for the voyage, my old partner
told me, there was an acquaintance of his, a Brasd
planter, who, having fallen under the displeasure of
the church, and in the fear of the inquisition, which
obliged him to be concealed, would be glad of such
an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and
two daughters; End if I would allot them a planta-
tion in my island, he would give them a small stock
to be2;in with, for that the officers had already seized
his esfects and estate, and left him nothing but a little
houshold- • iff and two slaves. This request I pre-
sently granted, concealing him and his family on
board our ship, till such time as the sloop (where all
the effects were) was got out of the bay, and then
we put them on board, who carried them some mate-
rials and plants for planting sugar-canes along with
them. By this sloop, among other things I sent my
subjects three milch cows, and. five calves, about 22
hogs, three sows big with pig, two mares and a
stallion. I also engaged three Portuguese women to
go for the sake of the Spaniards^ which, with the per-
secuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the rest had wives of their own, though in another
country: All which cargo arrived safe, no doubt,to
their exceeding comfort; who, with this addition,
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
Here it was that my truly honest and pious clergy-
man left me; for a snip being ready to set sail for
Liftos, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you it was with the greatest reluctance I parted from
such a person, whose virtue and. piety merited the
greatest esteem.
When we failed from the Brafih, we made directly
over the Atlantic ocean to the Cape of Good Hope,
having a tolerable good voyage, steering for the .most
part
part S. E. We were on a trading voyage, and had
a supercargo on board, who was to direct all the ship's
motions after (lie arrived at the Cape ; only being li-
mited to a certain number of days for stay by charter
party, at the several ports she was to go to; but all
this belonged to my nephew the captain, and the
supercargo, and was none of my business. At the
Cape we only took in fresli water, and then sailed for
the coast of Coromandel, being informed that a French
man of war of fifty guns, and two large merchant
ships were sailed for the Indies, but we heard no more
of them. f'
The first place we touched at was the island of Ma-
dagascar; where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, formidably armed with bows
and launces; yet, for some time, they treated us ci~
viily enough; and, in exchange of knives, scissars,
and other trifles, they brought us eleven go6d fat bul-
locks, which we took partly for present fresh victuals,
and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as osten'as X
could; when one evening, numbers of the people
stood gazing at us at a distance, yet we thought our-
selves in no danger, because they had used us kindly.
However, we cut three boughs out of a tree, sticking
them at a distance from us, which, it leen;s, in that
country, is not only a token of tru<:e and amity. but,
when poles or boughs are set up on the other hue, it
is a sign the truce is accepted: Yet there; is one
thing to be regarded, that neither party mult tome
beyond one another's three poles or boughs; so that
the middle space is not «nly secure, but is also al-
lowed like a market for traffick and commerce. They .
stick up their launces and javelins at the first poh*,
and come on unarmed; but, if any violence is of-
sered, away they run to their poles, take up their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end. One
evening it happened, when we went on shbre, z%
* Y z greater
-greater number of people than usual, both men and
women. honestly traded among us for such toys as
%t/c had, with such great civility, that we made us a
little tent of large boughs of trees, some of the men
resolving to lie on shore all night. But, for my part,
I and some others took our lodging in the boat, with
Roughs of trees spread over it, having a sail spread at
she bottom to lie upon; when, about two o'clock in
the morning, we heard the siring of Jive muskets, as
also our men crying out for help, or else they should
all be murdered: Nor scarce had we time to get the
fcoat ashore, but that our men came and plunged
themselves into the water, having above four hundred
men at their heels: We took up seven of the men,
three of them very much wounded, and one left be-
hind killed, while the enemy poured their arrows so
thick among us, that we were forced to make a barra-
cade, with boards lying at the side of the boat, to
shield us from danger : And having got ready our fire-
arms, we returned them a volley, which no doubt
wounded several of them, as we could hear by their
cries. In this condition we lay till break of day,
and then, making signals of distress to the dip, which
my nephew, the captain, heard and understood, he
weighed anchor, and stood as near the shore as pos-
sible, and then sent another boat with 10 hands in her
t'o ailist us ; but we called to them not to come near,
informing them of our unhappy condition: However
'they ventured, when one cf tne men taking the end
cf a tow-line in his hand, axd keeping our boat be-
tween him tnd our adversaries, swam on board usr
and made fast the line to our boat; upon this, flip-
ping our cables, they towed us out of the reach of
thtir arrows, and quickly after a broadside was given
them from the ship, which made a most dreadsul ha-
vock among them. But when we had got on board,
arid; examined into the occasion of this fray, the men
v/'&o fled informed that an old woman, who sold
Kiiik witfiin the poles* had brought a joung woman
with her, who carried roots or herbs; the sight of
whom so much tempted our men, that they offered
rudeness to the maid, at which the old woman set
up a great cry; nor would the sailors part from their
prize, but carried her among the trees, while the old
woman went and brought a whole army down upon
them. At the beginning of the attack one of our men
was killed with a lance, and the fellow who began
the mischief, paid dear enough for his mistress, though
as yet we did not know what became of him, but the
r^st gorfree. The third night after the action, being
curious to understand how affairs stood, I took the'
supercargo, and twenty stout fellows with me, and
landed about two hours before midnight, at the fame
place where those Indians stood the night before ; and
there we divided our men into two bodies, the boat-
swain.commanding one, and J the other. It was so .
dark, that we could see nobody ; neither ditf we hear
any voice near us: but by and by the. boatswain fall-
ing over a dead body, we consented to halt till the
moon began to rise, which we knew would be in aa;
hour after; and then we perceived two and thirty
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quife .
dead.'. Satisfied with this discovery, I was going oh .
board again ; but the boatswain, and the rest, told
me,. they . would : make a visit to the Indian town .
where those dogs, so they called them, resided, asking
me at the. fame time to go along with fhem ; that they.'
did not doubt,"besides getting a good. bo.oty, but they .
should sind Tarn Jeffefy there, for tha.t was the. unhap-
py tnanwe nested. But I >Kt;rly rQsusjd to go',.an j!
commanded them back, as being unwilling to hazards:
their lives, the safety of the. ship' whollv . depending .
upon them. Upon which, inshort, they. airiest;me but r
one, and the supercargo :. So we returned to the. boat r
where a boy was left, telling thepi we would stay/or
those that returned,; thp' we supposed that tnc « r>f .thcm .
would run the same fate of 7}nn Jefsery. To cliis they
re.plied, Cone boss, come idling, ive 11 warrant we'll come
'Y.3. off.
! 1
tffjafi emttgft; and so away they went, notwithstand-
ing all my admonitions, either concerning their own
. safeSy, or the preservation of the ship. Indeed they
were gallantly armed, every man having a musket,
bayonet, and a pistol, besides cutlasses, hangers, pole-
axes, and hand-granadoes.' They came to a few In-
dim houses at first ; but, not being the town they
expected, they went farther, and finding a cow tied
to a tree,. they concluded that would be a sufficient
guide to them, and so it proved ;for after they untied
her, she led them directly to the town, which consist"*
r ed of above two hundred houses, several families liv-
ing in some of the huts together. Here, being all in a
profound fleep, the sailors consulted to divide them-
selves into three bodies, and set three parts of the town
on fire at once; to kill those that were escaping, and
I plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
I solved, they went to work; but the first party had
V" I not gone far, before they called out to. the rest, that
r | they had found Tern 'Jejsery ; whereupon they all rafL
up to the place, and found the poor fellow indeed,.
hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat almost
cut from ear to eat: In a house that was hard by the;
.tree, they found 16 or 17 Indians who had been con-
cerned in the fray, two or three of them being wound-
ed, who were not gone to fleep ; this house they set
on fire first, and quickly, five or six places more in.
* < $;e town appeared in flames, which they occasioned
~~ j>y wild-fire, as the fittest to burn their thatches,.
iconsisting of flags or rushes : and no sooner did the
"affrighted creatures run out to save their lives, but
they were either driven back into the flames by the
sailors, or killed without mercy. After the boatswain.
had slain two with his pole-axv he threw a hand-gra-
nado into the house, which,. soon bursting, made a..
terrible havock, killing and wounding most of them;
and neither their king, nor any. of hi& train, who
were in tlat house, escaped their sury, but they were
every creature smothered and burnt together. All this .
'while.
while they never fired a gun, lest the people ihouldT
waken faster than they could overpower them. But
they awaked fast enough, which obliged our fellows
to keep together in bodies. And by this time the
whole town was in a flame, yet their sury rather en-
creased, calling out to one another to remember Tom
Jejsery. The terrible light of this conflagration made.
me very uneasy, and rouzed. my nephew the captain,
and the rest of his men, not knowing any thing of the
matter. But when he perceived the dreadsul smoke
ascending in the clouds, and heard the guns go ofly
which made him conclude his men in danger, he takes
another boat, and comes on shore himself with 13 men
well armed : Nor was he less surprised to see me and
two men only in the boat ; but though I argued with
him, as I did with his men, about the danger of the
voyage, the interest of the merchants and owners,
and the sasetyof the ship ; yet my nephew was like
the rest, declaring, that he would rather lose the ship
his voyage, his life and all, than his men should be
lest for want of help ;and so away he went. For
my part, feeing him resolved to go, I had not power
to stay behind him: He ordered the pinnace back
again for twelve men more ; and then we marched di-
rectly as the flame guarded us. But surely never was
such a scene of horror beheld, nor more dismal criet.
heard before, except at the time of that vile traytor
and usurper Oliver.Cromwell's taking Drogheda in ire-.
land, where he neither spared man, woman or child.
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
rains of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two burnt
to death among the fire, which was now decaying-
Nothing could appear more barbarous than this re-
venge ; none more cruel than the authors of it. As
we went on the fire increased, and the cry proceed-
ed in proportion : Nor had we gone much farther, but
we beheld three naked women, followed by sixteen
or seventeen men, flying with the greatest swiftness
srom
from our men, who shot one of them in out sight:
When they perceived us, whom they supposed would
be their murderers, they set up a molt dreadsul shriek,
and two swooned away in the fright. Here was such
a sight, as might surely soften the hardest heart; and
in pity, we took meanstolet them know we would
not hurt them ;' while the poor creatures, with bend-
ed knees and lift up hands, made piteous lamenta-
tions to us to save their lives. I ordered our men not
to hurt any of the poor creatures whatsoever; but,
being willing to understand the occasion of all this,
I went among these unhappy wretches, who neither
understood me^ nor I believe the meaning themselves.
Hereupon, being resolved to go into the middle of the
town through the fire, in order to put an end to .
this barbarity, I ordered the men to follow me; but
I had scarce spoke the word before the boatswain came.
up, with four of our. men at his heels, covered with.
blood and dust, seeking more people to massacre; up-;
on which, calling out to them, we made them under-
stand who we were, and they came up to us, setting .
.
up a halloo of triumph, in token that more help
was come. Noble captain, said he to my nephew, I'm
glad you're come;.we have not half done with these
villainous hell-hound dogs, we'll root out. the very .
nation of them from the earth, and kill more than .
poor Tom has hairs upon his head : And thus he went .
on till I interrupted him. Blood thirsty dog! said I,
will your cruelty never end ? I charge.you touch not .
one creature more > stop your hands and stand still,
or you're kdead. man this moment. Why, Sir, said'
he, you neither know who you are protecting, or what
they have done 5 but pray come hither, and behold an
object of compassion, 'if such can merit. your cle- .
mency ; and with that lie shewed me the poor fellow,
with his throat cut,. hanging upon the tree. .
. Indeed here was enough to fill their breasts with ,
rage, which however 1 thought had gone too far,
Agreeable to.these words df Jqiob to. his sous Simeon.
'; t'.A and
and Lev! : Cursed be their anger for it was fierce, and
their wrath,.for it v>as cruel. But this sight made my
nephew and the rest as bad as they; nay, my nephew
declared, his concern was only for his men; as for
the people, not a foul of them ought to live. Here-
upon away ran the boatswain and eight more to finish
the tragedy; which being out of my power to pre-
vent, I pensively returned back, both from the dismal
sight, and the piteous cries of those unfortunate crea-
tures, who were made victims to their fury* Nor was
it a less piece of folly in me to return to the boat with
a sew others, having narrowly escaped forty armed Irim
ditms, who bad baen alarmed by the conflagration;
but, having missed-the placa where they stood, I got to
the boat, accompanied with the supercargo, and fa
went on board, sending the pinnace back again, to as-
sist the men in what might happeni When I had got
to the boat, the fire was almost extinguished, and the
noise abated ;but I had scarce been half an hour onr
board the ship, when I heard another volley given by
our sailors, and a great smoak, which, as I after-
wards foundj was our men falling upon those houses:
and persons that stood between them and. the sea; but
here they spared the wives and children, and killed
about sixteen or seventeen men. And so they came
strolling down to the pinnace, which, at that time
was gotten on shore to receive them. Not a man o£
.them had received the least hurt, except two, one of
whom strained his foot, and the other burnt his hand
a. little, having met with no resistance, the poor i»-
dians being unprepared, amazed and confounded.
laded I was extremely angry with every one of
them, but particularly the captain; who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
tp farther mischief: Nor could he make any other ex-
cuse, but that, as he was a man, he could not mastet
bis paffions, at the sight of one of his men so cruel-
ly murdered, As for the rest, knowing they were nos
under
under my command, they took no notice of my an-
ger, but rather boasted of their revenge; wd, ac-
cording to all their accounts, they killecTor destroyed
about 150 men, women and children, besides burn-
ing the town to ashes. They took their compa-
nion Tern Jefftty from the tree, covered him with
some of the ruins, and so left him. Eiut, however
justifiable this action of our men might seem to them-
selves, yet I always openly condemned it, with the
appellation of the maslacre of Madagascar: For though
they had slain this Jeffery, yet he was certainly the first
aggressor, by attempting to violate the chastity of a
young innocent woman, who ventured down to them
on the faith of the public capitulation, which was so
treacherously broken.
We were now under sail, when the boatswain
would defend this bloody action, by faying, That the
Indians had bloke the truce, the night before, by
shooting one of our men without just provocation:
And what if the poor fellow had taken a little liberty
with the wench, he ought not to have been murdered
in so villainous a manner; and that they had acted
nothing but what the divine laws commissioned to be
done to such homicides. However, I was in the fame
mind as before, telling them that they were murder-
ers, and bid him depend upon it, that God would blast
their voyage sor so unparralleled a piece of barbarity.
When we came into the gulph of Persia, five cf our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed, or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them having
scarce time to'escape to their boat. This made me
upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of hea-
ven sor such actions: Upon which the boatswain ve-
ry warmly asked me, wether those rr.en on whom the
tower of Siloam fell, where greater sinners than the
rest ofthe Galileans f And besides, Sir, said he, none
of these five poor men that are lost, were with us at
the massacre of Madagascar, as you call it, and there
fore your reprehension is very unjust, and your appli-
cation improperly applied. Besides, added he, you are
continually using the men very ill upon this account,
and being but a passenger yourself, we are not obliged
to bear it; nor can we tell what ill designs you may
have to bring us to judgment for it in England; and
therefore if you don't leave this discourse, and not
concern yourself with any of our affairs, I will leave
the Clip, and not fail in such dangerous company.
All this I htard very patiently, till at length I told
him what concern T had on board was none of his
business ; that, however, I was a considerable owner
of the ship, and therefore had a right to speak in com-
mon, and that I was no way accountable to him, nor
to any body else. Well, this past on, and I thought
all had been over.. At this time we were in the road
of Bengal; where, going on shore with the supercar-
go one day, in the evening, as I was preparing to
go on board, one of the men came to me, and told
me, I need not trouble myself to come to the boat,
for that the cockswain and others had ordered him not
to carry me on board any more. This insolent mes-
sage much surprized me, yet I gave him no answer to
it, but went directly, and acquainted the supercargo,'
entreating him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I per-
ceived would happen. But, before I had spoke this,
the matter was effected on board: For, no sooner was
I gone off in the boat, but the boatswain, gunner,
carpenter, and all the inferior officers, came to the
^quarter-deck, defiring to speak with the captain ; and
there it was the boatswain made a long harangue, ex-
claiming against me as before-mentioned; that if I had
not gone peaceably for my own diversion, they would
have compelled me bj violence for their satisfaction;
that, as they had (hipped with. the captain, so they
would faithsully serve him; but, if I did not quit the
ship, or the captain oblige me to it, they would leave
the ship immediately: Hereupon, turning his face
about by way of signal, they all cried out, One and
All, One and All.
You may be lure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not but be sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behavioor : And,"
though he talked stoutly to them, and afterwards ex-
postulated with them, that, fn common justice to me,
who was a considerable owner in the ship, they could
not turn me as it were out of my own house, which
might bring their lives in danger should they ever be
taken in England: Nay, though he invited the boat-
swain on shore to accommodate matters with me, yet
all this, I fay, signified nothing: they would have
nothing to do with me; and they were resolved to go
on shore if I came on board. Well, said my nephew,
if you are so resolved, permit me to talk with him,
and then I have done: And so he came to me, giving
me an account of their resolution, how one and all
designed to forsake the ship if I came on board, for
which he was mightily concerned. I am very glad to
see you, nephew, said I, and rejoice it is no worse,
since they have not rebelled against you: I only de-
fire you to send my necessary things on shore, w'ith
a sufficient sum of money, and I will. find my way" to
England as well as I can. Though this grieved my
nephew to the heart, yet there was no remedy but
compliance; and, in short, going on board, all my
necessaries were sent me, and so this matter was over
in a few hours. .
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther
off England by sea, than at my little kingdom, except
this difference, that I might travel by land over the
Great Mogul's country to Suratt, from thence up to
Bafira by sea up the Persian gulph, then take the way
of the caravans over the Amb'um desert to Aleppo and
Scandarocn, there take lh ipping to Italy, and so travel
by land into France, and from thence cjofs the sea to
England. My
my nephew left me two persons to attend me, one
of them was his servant, and the other clerk to the
purser, who engaged to be mine. I took.lodgings in
an Englijh woman's house, where several French, one
Englijh, and two Italian merchants resided. The
handsome entertainment I met with here, occasioned
me to stay nine months, considering what course I
should take. I had some Englijh goods with me of
great value, besides 1000 pieces of eight, and a let-
ter of credit for more, if there was occasion. IThe
goods I soon disposed" of to advantage, and bought
here several good diamonds, which I could easily car-
ry about me. One morning the Englijh merchant
(jame to me, and, being very intimate together, coun-
tryman, said he, I have a project to communicate to
. you, which I hope will suit to both our advantage.
To be short, Sir, we are both in a remote part of the
M'oiild from bur country; but yet in a place where
men of business may get a great deal of money. Now
. 'if*you will puta thousand poundstomy thousand pounds
we will hire a ship to our satissaction; you shall be
.captain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading
voyage to China; for why should we lie still like
iLrones, when all the world is in continual motion?
. This proposal soon got my consent, being very
agreeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
since'e person": It required some time before we couid
get a vefltl to our minds, and sailors to man it ac-
cordingly: At length, we got an Englijh mate, boat-
swain and gunner, a Dutch carpenter, and 3 Portu-
.eueze foremast-men, and, for want of others, made
shift with Indian seamen1. From hence we first sailed
to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and then to Siam,
where We bartered our wares for some arrack and
opium, the last of which bore a great price among the
Chinese: In a word, we went up to Sujkan, making a
very great voyage; and, after eight months time, I
Z returned
returned to Bengal very well satisfied with this ad-
venture, having not only gotten a sufficient sum os
money, but an insight of getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the spice islands, and bring home a load
ot cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; islands
belonging partly to Spain, but yet places where the
Dutch trade very much. We were not long preparing
for this voyage, which we made no less successsul than
the last, touching at Porneo, and several other places
which I do not perfectly remember, returning home in
about five months time. We soon sold our spices,
which were chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to a
Persian merchant, who carried them away for the
gulph; and in short, making five to one advantage,
we we're loaded with money.
Not long aster my friend and I had made up our
accounts, [to our entire satisfaction, there came
'in a Dutch coaster from Batavia, of above two hun-
dred ton. All the men pretended themselves so ill,
that there were not hands sufficient to undertake a voy-
age, and the captain being, forsooth, willing to go
to Europe, public notice was given that the ship was
to be fold. No sooner did this come to our ears, but
we bought the ship, paid the master, and took pos-
lcssion. We would also very willingly have entertained
some of the men ; but they, having received their share
os the booty, were not to be found; being fled all to-
gether, to Jgra, the city of the great Mogul's resi-
dence; and from thence were to travel to Surate, and
la by sea to the Persian gulph. And indeed they had
reason to sly in this manner; for the truth of it was,
the pretended captain, was the gunner only, and not
.the commander; that, having been a trading voyage,
they were attacked on shore by the Mallayam, who
killed three men and the captain; after whose death,
the other eleven men, running away with the ship to
the bay os Bengal, left the mate and five men more
on shore, os whom you will hear in the sequeh
Let them come by the ship how they will, we
thought we bought it honestly; neither did we suspect
any thing of the matter, when the man shewed us a
bill of sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) to one
Emanuel Clojlerjhoven, which name he went by. And
fo, without any more to do, we picked up some Duic/i
and Englijh seamen, resolving for another voyage for
cloves among the Phillipine and Molucca islands ; and,
in short, we continued thus five or fix years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary success; and
was now, in the seventh and last year, going in the
ship with my partner to China, designing to touch at
Sitim, and\buy some rice by the way. Rut in thk
voyage, contrary winds beat us up and down for a
considerable time among the islands in the straights of
Mallaga; and no sooner were we clear of these rugged
seas, but we perceived our ship had sprung a leak,
which obliged us to put into the river Cambodia, which
lies northward of the gulph, and goes up to Siam..
One day as I was on lhore refreshing myself, there
comes znEnglijhmaniome, who was a gunner's mate
on board an Englijh Eajl-India ship, riding up the
river, near the city ot Cambodia. Sir, said he, you
may wonder at my business, having never seen me in
your life; but though I am a stranger, I have some-
thing to tell you that very nearly concerns you; and
indeed, it is the imminent danger you are in has
moved me to give you this timely notice. Danger!
said I, what danger? I know of none, except my
ship being leaky, for which I design to have her run
a-ground to-morrow morning. Sir, said he, I hope
you'll be better employed, when you shall hear what
1 have to say to you. You know the town of Cam'-
bodia is about 15 leagues up this river ; and about three
leagues on this side, there lie two Dutch, and three
Englijh.ships; and would you venture here, without
considering what strength you had to engage them?
Z 2 '- I knew
I knew not what he meant by this discourse; ancT,
turning'short uponhinr,. Sir, said I, I know no reason
I have to be afraid.either 0/ any Englijh or Dutch ships;
J am no interloper, and what business have they then
with me? Wei), Sir, said the man, if you do think
yourself secure, all I can say is, you must take your
chance: However, I am ver.y sorry you are so deaf tq
good advice; but I assure you, if you don't put to
sea immediately, you will be attacked by five long-
boats sull cf men, hanged yourself for a pyrate, if you
are taken, and the particulars examined afterwards.
I thought, Sir, added he, I might have met withji
better reception for such a singular piece of service.
Sir, said I, I never was ungratesul to any man .^ but
pray explain yourself, and I'll go on board this minute,
whether the leak be stopped or no. Why, Sir, said
he, to be short, because time is precious, the matter is
this: You keew well £r*&ugh that you weje with the
ship at Sumatra, where your captain was murdered by
the M*!i'rjani,v:\iX\ three of hiyirtirors, and rhar either
you, or some who were on board you, ran away with
the ship; and are since turned pyrates at sea. Now,
Sir, this is the sum of what I had to say; and I can
positively assure you, that if you be taken, you will
.be executed without much ceremony.; for, undoubt-
edly, you cannot but be sensible what little law mer-
chant-ships shew to pyrates, whenever they fall into
their unmercisul hands. Sir, said I, I thank you for
your kind information, and though I am sure no man
could come more honestly by the ship than I have
idone; yet, satissied with your honest intention, and
Jcnowing their designs, I'll be upon my defence. Pri-
thee, Sir, said the man, don't talk of being upon your
jdefence; the best that you can make, is to be out of
danger; and therefore, if you have any regard for
your life, and the lives of your men, take the advan-
tage, without fail, of putting out to sea at high water;
by which means, as you have a whole tide before you,
you
you will be gone too far out of their reach before they
can come down ; and so, by the tide ( not reckoning the
length) you will get two hours of them; and as they
are only boats, consequently they will not venture
(especially if the wind blows) to follow you far out:'
tafea.
I am mighty well satisfied, said I, in this particular,.
and of your kindness, which merits my greatest es-
teem: Pray, Sir, what amends shall I make you? He
.replied, I know not what amends you are willing to
make, because you may have some doubts of its cer-
tainty ; but, to convince you of the truth of what I
fay, I have one osfer to make unto you. On board.
one of the Englijh. (hips, I have nineteen months pay
due to me; and this Dutchman th.u. is with me, has j.
months pay due to him, which, if youAvill make good'
to us, we will go along with you. And should you'
find nothing more in it,. why then. we will desire no.=
more; but when you are convinced that we havesaved:^
the ship, your life, and the lives of ther men,. we."
will leave the rest to your generosity. V.
So reasonable djd. this every way appear,. as to ob.-.
tain my immediate consent, and so we went on. board?
immediately. As soon as we came on board, my. part-
ner calls joysully. out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh an-
chor immediately. Weigh ! said he, what is the mean-
ing of this hurry ? Pray,Caidl, ask no questions, but:
all hands to.work without losing a ' moment's time.:
Upon which, the captain.was called in. great haste,.
who ordered the anchor to be got up. immediately.;
and, though the tide was not quite down, yet being.as.
fistedwith a little land-breeze,'we stood.'out to lea:
.And then iewas, that. calling my partner into the ca-
bin, I related the story at large, which; Vas confirm-
ed, and more amplified.by the two men I had brought.
on board. But scarce bad:we finished our.'discourse
upon this head, but a sailor came to the cabin-doo?,.
with a message from. the captain, that we were chased
2 3 by
t>y five sloops sull of armed men. Very well, said
I, it is plain now there is something in it. And so,
going upon deck, I told the men there was la design
for seizing the ship, and consequently executing us
for pyrates; and asked them, whether they would
faithsully stand by us, and one another? To which
thfcy unanimously replied, that they would sight for us
to the last drop of their blood. And when I asked the
captain which way he thought best for us to manage
the battle; Sir, said he, the only method is to keep
them oft" with our great shot as long as we are able,
and then have recourse to our small arms; and when
both these fail us, then to retire to close quarters,
when perhaps the enemy, wanting materials, can nei-
ther break openour bulk-heads, or get in upon us. in
the mean time, the gunner was ordered to bring two
guns to bear fore and aft out of the steerage, and to
load them with musket bullets and small pieces of old
iron; and thus, the deck being cleared, we were pre-
pared for the engagement, still keeping out to fca.
But yet the boats followed us with all the fail they
could make ; and we could perceive the two foremost
were Englijh, which outsailed the rest by two leagues,
and which we found would come up with us : Here-
upon we fired a gun without ball, intimating that
they should bring too, and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley ; but, finding them crouding af-
ter us, till they came within a shot, we took in our
/white, and hanging out thered flag, immediately sired
at them with ball; and then we called to them with
a speaking trumpet, bidding them to keep. off at their
peril.
But all this signified nothing to them, who, depend-
ing upon the strength that followed them, were reso-
lutely bent for mischief: Hereupon I ordered them to.
bring the ship to, by which. means, they lying upon
our broad-side, we let fly at them at once,. one of
whom carried away the stern of the hindefmost boat,.
and obliged them not onLy to take down their fail, but
made
made them all run to the head of the boat to keep her
from sinking ; and so (he lay by, having enough of it;
and, in the mean time, we prepared to mret the fore-
most boat in the same manner. But, while we were
doing this, one of the three hindermost boats made up
to the relief of that which was disabled, and took the
men outof her. .Hertupon we called again to parky
with them, but, instead of an answer, one of the
boats came close under our stern ;.whereupon our gun-
ner let fly his two chafe-gun*;, but milling, the men.
in the boat fltouted, and waving their Caps, came qn
with sury; but, to repair his seeming disgrace, soon
got ready; and, firing the second time, this shot, we
could perceive, did a great deal of execution among
the men; but, taking no notice of it, we wore ship
again, bringing our quarter to bear upon them;
when, firing three guns more, we found the boat a
sinking, and several men already in the sea. Here-
upon, immediately manning our pinnance, I gave
ofdcrs to save some of the men from drowning, and
instantly come on board, because the rest of tneir boats
were approaching. They accordingly did so, and.
took up three of them, one of. whom was almost past.
recovery; and then, crouding all the fail we couid,
after our men came on board, we stood out farther to
sea, so that the other three boats gave over their chase,
when they came up to the first two. And thus, deli-
vered from imminent danger, we changed our course
to the eastward, quite out of the course of all Eu-
ropean ships.
Being now at sea, and enquiring more particularly]of
the two seamen the meaning of all this ; the Dutchman
led us into the secret of it at once. He told us, That
the fellow who sold us the ship was an errant thief,.
who had run away with her; that the captain was.
treacherously murdered on the coast of Mpllaca, by
the natives there, with three of his men ; that he, the
Dutchman, and four more, being obliged to have re-
course to. the woods foe their safety, at length escaped
by
by means of a Dutch ship in its way to China, which
had sent their boat on shore for fresb water: That,
after this, he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belonging to the ship ( who had deserted the rest
u\ their travels) arrived, and there gave an account,
that the fellow, who ran away with the ship, had
sold her at Bengal to a set of pyrates, who went a
cruising, and had already taken an Englijh and two
Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more, by
reason had we fallen into their hands, we could have
expected nothing from them but immediate death,
considering our accusers would have been our judges:
And therefore his opinion was, to return directly to
Bengal, where, being known, we could prove how
honestly we came by the ship, of whom we bought
her, and the like; and where we were sure of fome
justice, not to be hanged first, and judged afterwards,
AntHndeed I was at sirst of my partner's opinion;
but when I had more seriously considered of the mat-
ter, I told him, we ran a great hazard in attempting
to return thither, being on the wrong side of the
straits of Malacca; and if, upon alarm given, we
. should be taken by the Dutch of Batavia, or Englijh.
elsewhere, our running away would be a sufficient evi-
dence to condemn ourselves. This danger indeed.
startled not only my partner, but all the ship's com-
pany; and so we changed our former resolution to go-
to the coast of Tonquin, and so to that of China; where
pursuing our first design as to trade* we might dis-
pose of the strip some way or other,. and return.in one
of the country vessels. This being generally agreed
. to, we steered away N. N. E. above 50 leagues off
the usual course to the east, which put us to some in-
conveniences, as the winds blowing more steadily
against us, mr.de. us more tedious in our voyage, and
consequently caused a more speedy decay of our pro-
vision:
vision ; and, what was still worse, we apprehended
those skips, from whose boats we had 'escaped, being
bound for, and got toChina before us, might have given
fresbJinformatiQn, which might create another vi-
gorous pursuit. And lastly, when I considered I had
never wronged or defrauded any person in my life, to
be now pursued like a common thief, and, if taken,
tp be executed as such, according to what they should
alledge ; this thing grievedsme to the highest degree
(.as it must all innocent men) and consequently made
me more desirous of escaping from its infamous shame,
than from death itself. It was very «asy to read a fad
dejection in my countenance upon this occasion:
My mind was opprest like those unhappy innocent per-
sons, who, being overpowered by blasphemous and
perjured evidences, wickedly resolved to take away
their lives, or ruin their reputation, have no other
recourse; in this world, is -ease..their un£pc:±able
sorrow, but sighs, and prayers, and tears. My part-
ner feeing me so concerned, encouraged me as well as
he could ; and, after describing to me the several ports
of that coast, told me he would either put \n on the
coast of Cocbinchiaa, or else in the bay of Tonquin,
and from thence go to Macao, a town once pos-
sessed by the Pertugueze, and where there still resided
many European families.
Well, totfiis place we steered our course, and ear-
ly the next morning we came in sight of the coast.
But, considering on our past circumstances, we re-
solved to put into a small river, whereby we could
know, either over the land, or by the ship's pinnace,
whatvessels were in any ports thereabouts: And in-
deed .this happy step was our certain deliverance; the
next morning there came to the bay of Tonquin tw»
Du.tch ships, and a third without any colours spread p
and, in the evening, two Englijh ships steered the
fame course. Theriverwhere we were was but small,
within a few leagues of its limits northward: The
country was wild and barbarous, aud the people ail
thieves,
thieves, having no correspondence with any otheT
nation, dealing only in fish, oil, and such gross
commodities. One barbarous custonTfrlcy have, that
when any vessel is unhappily shipwrecked upon their
coast, they make the men their prisoners or (laves;
so that when we coasted north-east, to the point of
land which opens to the great bay of Tonquin, we
found ourselves surrounded by enemies both by sea
and land.
As the ship had been leakly before, we took the
opportunity to cleanse her in this place, and to stop
tip the places which let in the water And when we
had lightened her, and brought our guns, and other
moveable things, to one side, we essayed to bring
her down, that we might come at her bottom; But,
upon second consideration, we cared not to let her lie
on dry ground; neither indeed could we find a con-
. . vfstientpiaee.fbrit. The inhabitants, not used to such
a sight, as to fee a ship lie down on one side, and
heel in towards shore, neither perceiving her men who
were at work on her bottom, with stages and with
boats on the off-side, they presently imagined the
ship had been castaway, and so lay fast on the ground.
Agreeable to this supposition, they surrounded us with
ten or twelve large boats, with a.refolution, undoubt-
edly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away those
they found alive, for slaves to their king. But when
they perceived our men hard at work upon the ship's
bottom and side, washing, graving, and stopping it,
it filled them with such surprize, that they stood gaz-
ing as though they were confounded. Neither could we
imagine what their design was; however, for fear
of danger, we handed down arms and ammunition
to those at work, in order to defend themselves; and
indeed this precaution was absolutely necessary; for, .
in a quarter of an hour after, the natives concluding
it was really a shipwreck, and that we were saving
our lives and goods, which they thought belonged
to them, came down to our men, as though it had been
. in
»n a line of battle. Indeed we lay but in a very un-
fit posture to sight; and, before the stages could be
got down, or the men in the boat come on board as
they were ordered, the Cocbineses were upon them,
and two of their boats boarding our long-boat, they
began to lay hold of our men as prisoners. The first
they seized was a stout Englijh sailor, who never fired
his musket, like a fool, as I imagined, but laid it
down in the boat; but he knew what he was doing,
for, by main foi:ee, he dragged the Pagan outjof. the
boat into ours by the two ears, and knocked his brains
out against the boat's gunnel: A Dutchman, that was
next him, snatches up the musket, and knocked down
five more with the but-end of it: However, this was
doing very little to their number; but a strange, un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter, than
any thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he caulked her, to stop the leaks, had gotten
two kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with"
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow and
oil, and such stuff as the shipwrights use: The car-
penter's man had a great iron ladle, with which he
used to supply the workmen with hot stuff; and, as
two of the enemies entered the boat where the fellow
stood, he saluted them with a ladlesul of the hot boil-
ing liquor, that, being half naked, made them roar
again, and jump into the sea. Well done, Jack, says
the carpenter, give them t'other dose; ana so, step-
ping forward himself, takes a mop, and dipping it
into the pitch-pot, he and his man flung it so plen-
tisully among them, as none escaped being scalded:
Upon which they all made the best of their way,
crying and howling in such a frightful manner, that
in.all my adventures I never heard the like before.
And, indeed, never was I better pleased with any con-
quest than I was with this, by" reason there was fo
little
little bloodshed, having an aversion to killing such sa-
vage wretches (more than was necessary) knowing
they came on errands which their laws and customs
made them think were just and equitable. By this
time, all things being in order, and the ship lwim-
ming, they found their mistake, so they durst not ven-
ture a second attack. Thus ended our merry fight;
and having got some rice, bread, roots, and sixteen
good hogs oh board the day before, we set sail, not
daring to go into the bay of Tbnfuin, bat steered N. E.
towards the isle of Formosa, as though we would goto
the Manillas, or the Phiilippine islands, for fear of
meeting with any European ships. When we anchored
at the isle of Formosa, the inhabitants not only sup-.
.plied us with provisions and fresti water, but dealt
very fairly and honestly with us in their bargains and
agreements. From this place we steered north, keep-
ing still off the coast of China, till we were beyond all
the ports where European vessels usually comeand at
length, being come to the" latitude of thirty degrees",
we resolved to put into the first trading port we should
come at; and standing for the shore, a boat came off
two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot oh
board, who offering his service, we very gladly ac-
cepted him, and sent the boat back again. And now,
.hav ing the old man on board, I talked to him of going
to Nanquin, the most northward part os the coalt of
China. What will you do there? said he, smiling; I
told aim we would sell our cargo, and purchase calli-
coes, raw and wrought silk, tea, Sec. and so return the
same way back. O, said he, yoa had better put in at
Macao, where you may buy. china wares as cheap as at
Nanquin, and fell your opium at a greater advance.
But, said I, we are gentlemen as well as merchants,
and design to fee the great city of Peking, and the
magnificent court of the Monarch of China. Why
then, said he, you should go to Ningpo, where there
is a navigable river that goes through the heart of
that vast empire, two hundred and seventy leagues
from
. from the sea, which crosses all the rivers, passes con-
siderable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and
goes even up to the city of Pekin, and you may go to
Nanquin, if you please, and travel to Pekin, there is a
Dutch ship just before bound that way. At the name of
a Dutch or Englijh ship I was struck with consusion,
they being as grea;t a terror to me in this vessel, as an
Algerlne man of war is to them in the Mediterranean.
The old man sinding me troubled, Sir, said he, I hopd
the Dutch are not now at war with your nation:
No, said I, but God knows what liberty they may
takewhen out of the reach of the law. Why, fays
he, what occasion is there for peaceable merchants to
fear? for, believe me, they never meddle with any
but PYRATES.
At the mentioning the word Pyrates, my counte*
nance turned to scarlet, nor was it possible for me to
conceal it frOm the old pilot, whb taking notice of it,
Sir, said he, take what course you please, I'll do you all
the service I can. Signior, said I, I am a little con-
cerned at your mentioning Pyrates, I hope there are
none in these seas, because you see in what a weak
condition we are to defend ourselves. O Sir, said he,
if thass all, don't be concerned; I don't remember one in
these parts tliefe fifteen years, except about a month age,
one was seen in the hay os Siam; but jhe is gone to the
south; nor was jhe built for a privateer, but was run
uway with by a pyrate captain, and some of his men, the
right captain having been murdered by fta Mallayuns.
What, said I, (as though ignorant of what had
happened) did they kill the captain? No, said he, 'tis
thought the Mallayans murdered him, but. perhaps
they might procure them to do it, and therefore de-
served hanging. They were lately discovered in the
bay .of Siam, in the river of Cambodia, by some Dutch-
mw who belonged to the ship, and had much ado to
escape five boats that pursued them.: But they have
all given such an exact description of the ship, that
wherever they find her, they will be sure to know her;
A a and.
.and they have solemnly sworn to give them no quarter,
"but to hang them every one at the yard arm, without
iformally bringing them to a court of justice.
Being sensible that, having the old man on board,
he could not do me any mischief, Well, Signior, said
I, 'tis for this very reason I would have you carry us
*ip to Nanquin, where neither Englijb or Dutch ships
come: And I must tell you their captains are a par-
cel of rash, proud, insolent rascals, that neither know
what belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves
as the laws of God and nature direct: Fejlews. that
would prove murderers to punish robbers; and take
upon them to adjudge innocent men to death, without
any plain proof to consirm their guilt; but perhaps I
may live to call them to account, in a place where
.they may learn how justice should be executed. And
so I told him the story of buying the ship; and how
we were saved by tie means of two men: That the
murder of the captain by the Mallayans, as also the
running away with the ship, I believed to he true; but
that we who bought it were turned pyrates, was a
mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and foolish be-
haviour, when they attacked us; and the blood of those
men we killed in our own just defence lay at their
door, who sent them to attack us by surprize.
Sir, said the old man amazed, you have taken the
right course to Jieer to the north; and, if I might advist
you, I vmuld have you Jell your jhip in China, and buy
another in that country; and I'll procure people to bus
one and sell the other. Well, but Sjgnior, said I, if
I sell the ship in this manner, I may bring some in-
nocent persons into the fame danger as I have gone
through, perhaps worse, even death itself, whereby I
should be as guilty of their murder as their villainous
persecutors. That need not trouble you, said the old
man, I'll find a way to prevent that: For those com-
manders you talk of, I know very well, and I will inform
them rightly of the matter, as you have related; and I
am persuaded they will not only believe me, but ail more
cautkufy
c.autioufly for the future. And will you deliverone mes-
sage from me to them ? I'm, said he, if you.will give it
under your hand, that I may prove it is net' my own in-
vention. Hereupon I wrote a large account of their
attacking me in their long-boats, the pretended rea-
son and unjust design of it ; that they had done what
they ought to be ashamed of, and could not answer, at
any tribunal in England. But this letter was written
in'vain, providence ordering things another way. We
sailed directly for Nanquin^ and in about 13 days fail
came to an anchor at the south-west point of the
great gulph of that place, where we learned, that
two Dutch ships were gone the length. before us, arji
that we should certainly fall into their hands. We
were at a great loss in this exigency, and.would very
gladly have been on shore almost any where : But our
oki pilot told me, that if I would sail to the southward
about 42 leagues, there was a little port called Quin-
ebang, where no European {hips ever came, and where
We might consider what X3S farther to be done, Ac*
cprdingly we weighed anchor the next day, calling
only twice onshore by the way to. get . fresh: water.'
The. country people very courteously fold us roots,
tea, rice, fowls,. ar.d other provision. Aster ftve
days fail, we came to the pert, and landed with un-
speakable joy. We resolved to dispose of ourselves
and effects any way possible, rather than go on board
that ill-fated vessel again. For no state can be more
qiiserable than a continual fear, which is a life of
death, and a confounder of our understandings, that
sets the imagination at work to'form a thousand fright-
ful things that may never happen. And indeed both.
my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters, yard-arms, &c. of sighting and being
taken, killing and being killed, nay, so violent were
our apprehensions, that we would bruise our hands
and heads against the cabin, as though actually en-
gaged. The story of the Dutch cruelty at Amboyna
often came into our waking thoughts; and, for my
A a 2 part
\ .
. t 20.2 J;
part, I used to think my condition very had, that af-
ter so many disficulties, and signal deliverances, I
should be hanged in my old age, and innocent too;
but then religion would seem to reprehend me, as
though the voice of it had said, Consider, O man ! the
sins you have been formerly guilty of, which now thou
iirt called to account for, to expiate with thy blood!
And as to thy innocence, what art thou more than thy
blessed redeemer, who suffered for thy offences, and
to whose providence you ought to submit, let what
will happen ! After this my natural courage would
inspire me to resist to the lass, and rather to die than
be.taken b) boorish rascally Dutchmen, who had arts
to torment beyond the crueltv of death.
But now, thanks t© kind Heaven, being nshore,
our old pilot procured a lodging and a warehouse:
It was a little hut, with a large warehouse adjoining,
all built with canes, and pallisadoed round with larg«.
ones, to keep out the pilfering thieves, which .are
very numerous in that country: But the magistrates
allowed us a little guard, besides we employed a cen-
try "with a kind of halbert, sor three-pence a day.
The fair or mart had been over some time; however
there remained in the river sour ,junks and two Ja-
pan {liips, the merchants of the latter being ashore.
In the first place, our old pilot brought us acquainted
with three Ro;nijh miffionaries, who were converting
the Chinese to Christianity ; two of them were reserv-
ed,rigid and austere, applying themselves to the work
they came about with great earnestness ; but the third,
a Frenchman, called Father Simon. was of a freer con-
versation, yet not a worse Christian than the other
two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other
.a Genoese: But Father Simon, it leems, was appointed
to go to Pekin, the residence of the Emperor of
China, and only waited for another priest, who was
ordered from macoa to accompany him. We scarce
met, but he was prompting me to go with him ; Sir,
said he, I will shew you the glorious things of this.
... mighty
mighty empire, and a city, the city of Pekin, far ex-
ceeding London or Paris, put them both together.
One day particularly, being at dinner with him, I
shewed some inclination to go, which made him press
me the more, and my partner also, to gain our con-
sent: But father, said my partner, what satisfaction'
can you have in our company,'when you esteem us
heretics, consequently objects not worth your regard?:
Oh, said he, you may be as good Catholics in time, .
as those I hope to convert. And so, said he, we shall
have you preaching to us all the way, .instead' of
pleasing us with a description of the country. . Sir, .
said he, however our religion may be vilified, '.tis very .
certain it neither divests us of good manners or
Christian charity; and as we are gentlemen, as such i
we may converse, without making one. another un-ii
easy.
But, to leave him awhile, let us consider ounship^
and merchandize, that we had to dispose of. There
was but little': business in the place where we were; .
and once I was resolved to venture to fail so the river
Kilam, and so to the city of Nahquin;.but Providence .
ordered it otherwise, by our old pilot's bringing a Jew .
merchant to. us, to fee what goods we had. He irn- .
mediately bought our opium, .for which he gave us fa .
very good price in gold by weight, some wedges of
which weighed above 10 or n ounces. It came .
into my head, that he might buy the ship too; and I .
ordered his interpreter to propose it to.him. HeTaid i
nothing then, but shrunk up his moulders; yet in?
a few days after he came, accompanied by a missionary .'
priest, who was his interpreter, with/ this: proposal* ,
that. as he had bought a great quantity of our goods, ,
he had .not money enough to purchase our ship; but, ,
if I pleased, be would hire her, with all rhy men, to .
go to "Japan, and send them with another loading to .
the Philippine islands, the freight of which he would t
willingly pay.to us before; and at their return to i
A a 3 J('PaP .
Japan, would buy the ship. Upon this we asked
the captain and his men, if they were willing to go
to Japan; to which they unanimously agreed. While
this was ' in agitation, the young man whom my
nephew left to attend me, told me, that as I did not
care to accept this prospect of advantage, he would
manage it for me as I ple.ased, and render me a faith-
sul account of his success, which should be wholly
mine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part with
him; but, as it might turn to his advantage, I dis-
coursed my partner about it, who, of his own accord,
gave him his share of the vessel, so that I could not
do otherwise than give him mine; but, however, we
let him have but the property of half of it,and preserved
a power, that when we met in England, if he had
obtained success, he should account to us for one half
of the profits of the ship's freight, and the other
should be his own. Thus having. taken a writing
under his hand, away he sailed to "Japan, where the
merchant dealt honestly by him, got him a licence
to go on shore, sent him loaded to the Philippines
with their supercargo, came back again with European
goods, cloves, and ether spice; and, in short, he got
i great deal of money; nor would he sell his ship,
but traded on his own account, went back to the
Manillas, where getting acquaintance he made his
ship free, was then hired by the governor to go to
Acapuko in America, on the Mexican coast, with a
licence jo travel to that great city; and this gained
him immense treasure, and finding means to get to
Jamaica, he returned nine years after exceeding rich
to England.
In parting with the ship it comes in course to con-
sider those men who saved our lives in the river of
Cambodia: And though, by the way, they were a
couple of rogues, who thought to turn pyrates them-
selves :" yet we p:'.id fhrin what they at first demanded,
and gave each a small sum of money, making the
Englijb-
Englijf;ihan a gunner, and the Dutchman a boatswain,
with which they were very well contented.
W; were now above iooo leagues farther from
home, than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another fair in a
month's time, we might. not only purchase!all forts of
the country manufactures, but very:possibly find some.
Chinese junks or vessels from Tonquin, to be fold,
which would carry us and our goods wherever we:
pleased. Upon these hopes, we resolved to continues"
and to divert ourselves, took several little journies into
the country. Ten days we travelled to fee the city
of Nanquin, about lat. .30. N. which. is regularly
built, the streets'exactly strait, crossing each other in
direct lines,.which makes it shew to great advantage.
At our return, we.found the priest was come from
Macoa that was to go with Father Simon to Pekin.
That Father earnestly solicited me to accompany him,
and I referred him to my partner. In short we both
agreed to it, and prepared accordingly. Nor did we
fail meeting with great advantage, as to finiAng the
way, having the liberty to travail among the retinue.
of a Mandarin, who is a principal magistrate, and;
much reverenced by the people. . . . //'
We were 25 days travelling through this miserable
country, insinitely populous, but as indifferently .cul-
tivated ; but their pride is infinitely greater than fheir
poverty, insomuch that even their priests deride them.
As we passed the house of one of their country gen- /
tlemen, two leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles. Ne-
ver was Don Quixote si> exactly imitated, never such
a compound of pomp and poverty seen before. . .
His habit, made of callico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew, with all its tawdry
trappings, as hanging-sleeves, tassels, &c. but torn
in every part : His vest underneath it was no cleaner,
but more greasy. His horse (worse than Rssmante.
or
or the famous steed of the doughty Hudibrass) was a
poor, starved, decrepid thing, that would not fell for
thirty shillings in England: And yet after this piece
of beggarly pomp attended ten or twelve slaves,
guarding him to his country feat. We stopt at a lit-
tle village far refreshment; and when we came by
the country seat of this great man, we found him sit-
ting under a tree before his door, eating a mess of
boiled rice, with a great piece'of garlick in it, and a
bag filled with green pepper by him, and another
plant like ginger, with a bit of lean mutton, all this
put; together was his worship's repast: But pray ob-
serve the sloth and state of the fool! Two women
slaves brought his food ; which being laid before him,' ~
two others appeared to perform theii> respective offices;
one fed him with a spoon, while the other scraped off
what fell upon his beard and vest, and gave it to a par-
ticular favourite to eat. And thus we left the wretch,
pleased with the conceit of our admiring his magnifi-
cence, which rather raised our scorn and detestation.
At last we arrived at the great city of Pckin, accom- .
panied by two servants, and the. old Portuguezepilot,
whose charges we bore, and who was our interpreter.
We had scarce been a week at Pekin, but he comes
laughing to us, Ah., Signior htgltse, said he, me some-
ting tellj you make your heart glad, but make me
sorry, for you bring me here, 25 days journey, and
now you leave me,. go back alone; and which shall I
make my port after, widout the ship, widout de horse,
widout pecune, so he called money in his broken lan-
guage. But, in short, that there was a great caravan
of Muscovite and PoUjh merchants in the city, who
were preparing to set out for Muscovy by land within
fix weeks ; and that he was certain we would take
this opportunity, and consequently that he must go
home by himself. Indeed this news pleased us much:
Are you certain of this,said I ? Yes,Sir, said he, me sure
true. Then he told.me, that having met an old ac-
quaintance
V 297 3 .
quaintance, an Armenian, who was among them, and
came last from Afiracnn, with a design to go to Ton-
quin, where he formerly knew him 5 but naving al-
tered his resolution, was resolved to go with the cara-
van to Moscow, and so down the river fflolga to As-
tracan. Well, Signor, said I, don't be," discontented
about your returning alone ; for, if by this means I
can find a passage to England, it will be your own
fault if you return to Macoa at all. And so, con-
sulting with my partner what was best to be done, he
referred it to me as I pleased, our affairs being so well
settled at Bengal, that if we could vend the China
filks we had purchased, he would consent to
go to England, and so return to Bengal in the
company's ships. And thus we resolved, that if our
pilot would go With us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow or England, and give him 170/. sterl. Here-
upon we called him, and told him the cause of his
complaint should be removed, if he would accompa-
. ny us with the caravan, and therefore defired to know
his mind. At this he shook his head, great long
journey, said he, me no pecune, carry me Moscow, keep'
me dere. But we soon dispelled his concern, by tell-
ing him what we would give him here to lay^ out .
to the best advantage; and, as for his charges, we
would pay them.to Moscow or to England, which he
pleased, except the carriage of his goods. At this
proposal he was quite transported, saying, he would
go with us all the world over. We then prepared for
our journey: But, I think, it was near four months
before all the merchants were ready.
. In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port were we first put in, to fell what
goods were left there, while I accompanied a Chinese.
merchant to Nanquin, and there bought 29 pieces of
damask, with abouf 300 more of other fine filks;
and by the time my partner returned to Pekin, Iliad
them all canied thither ; so that our cargo amounted
in goods only to about 4500/. sterling, which, to- .
'gethpr
gether with tea, fine callicoes, nutmegs and crbvesr
loaded 18 camels for our share, besides what we rode
upon, with two or three spare horses, and two more
loaded with provision. And indeed the company ir*
general was very great, making about 400 horse, and
above 120 men, well armed and provided. We were
of several nations, among the rest were five Scots mer>
chants living at Moscow, well experienced in business.
We left Pekhz the beginning of February, O. S.
and in two days we passed through the gate of the great
China Wall, which was built as a fortification against
the Tartars, being 100 miles long. We then entered
a country not near so populous,* chiefly under the
power of plundering Tartars, several companies of
whom we perceived, on poor starved horses, contempt
tible as themselves, without order or discipline. One
time our leader for the day permitted us to hunt—
But what do you think we hunted? only a parcel of
sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the world for
wildness and swiftness; but while we were pursuing
this game, we met above forty Tartars, who, na.
sooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn, at
which there immediately appeared above forty or sifty.
more, at about a mile distant. Hereupon one of the
Scots merchants (who knew their cursed ways) or-
dered us to advance towards them, and attack them
immediately. As we advanced they let fly a volley of.
arrows, which happily fell a little short of us: This
made us halt a little, toreturr the compliment with.
bullets. And then it was, led up by the bold Scot,.
that we fired our pistols in their faces, and drew our.
swords; but there was no occasion, for they flew
like timorous sheep, and only three of them remained,
beckoning the rest to come up to them. But our.
brave leader galloped up.. to them, shot one dead,
knocked another off his horse, while the third ran
away: And thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
Weftill travelled a month more through the Emperor
of China's dominions; and at. length coming to one
©f their towns (about a day and a halPs journey
from the city of Naum) I wanted to buy a camel:
And the person I spoke to would have brought me
one, but like a fool I must go along with him, which
was about two miles from the village. My old pilot
and I walked on foot, forsooth, for some variety;
when coming to the place, where the camels were
kept as in a park (guarded by Chinese soldiers) we there
agreed and bought one, which the Chinese man that
came with me led along the mad. But we had not
gone far before we were attacked by five Tartars,
mounted on horseback; two of whom seized the
man, took the camel from him, and rode away; but
the other three approached us, the first of which sud-
denly seizing me as I was drawing my sword, the se-
. cond knocked me down, and stunned me; but my old
trusty Portuguevu, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
which I knew nothing of, and coming up to the fel-
low that struck me, laid hold of him with one hand,
pulling him off his horse, and then shot him dead upon
the spot: Then taking his scymetar, he struck at
the man that stopt us, but missing him, cut off one
of his horse's ears, the pain of which made him throw
his rider to the ground, with himself upon him.
The poor Chinese, who had led the camel, seeing the
Tartar down, runs to him, and seizing upon his pole-
axe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked out his
brains. But there was another Tartar to deal with,
who seeming neither to fight nor fly, my old man be-
gan to charge his pistol; the very sight of which
struck such a terror in the wretch, that he scowered
away, leaving my old pilot, rather my champion and
defender, an absolute victory.
It was by this time, being awakened from my fleep,
as I thought, I began to open my eyes, wondering
where I was, quite forgetting all that was past: But
when my fenses returned, feeling a great pain in my
head, while the blood was running over my cloaths,
I instantly jumped upon my feet grasping my sword
. in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; yet
no enemies appeared, except the dead Tartar, with
. his horse standing by him; but the old man feeing
me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran towards me,
and'vmbraced me with the greatest tenderness, at the
fame time examining into my wound ; but being far
from every body, we returned to the village, when
the man demanded. payment for his camel, which I
resusing, we brought the cause before a Chinese judge,
who acted with great impartiality. Having heard
both sides, he asked the Chinese man that went with
me, whose servant he was? Sir, said he, I am no-
body's, but went with the stranger, at his request:
Why then, said the judge, you were the stranger's
servant for the time, and the camel being delivered
to his servant is.the fame as being delivered to him-
self, and accordingly he must pay for it. Indeed the
'case was so fairly stated, that I had nothing to object
to it, so, having paid for what I was robbed of, I lent
for another, but did not go myself to fetch it, for I
bad enough of that sport before.' . '.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire, so fortified, as some tell you, that millions of
Tartars cannot batter down (the walls; by which
certainly one might think one; of our cannons would
do move.execution than all. their legions..
But the Governor of .that.city,' as we were within
a day's march of it, having sent messengers to every
pgrtof the road, to inform the travellers and caravans
to halt till he had sent a guard. to protect them from
the numerous bodies of Tartars that lately appeared
about the city; this news put us into great conster-
nation, but, obeying the orders; within two days
there came 200 soldiers from. a Chinese garrison, and
300 more from Naum: Thus, being guarded both in
the front and rear, with our own men on the sides,
we advanced boldly, thinking we wereiable to combat
10,000 Mogul Tartars, .if they had appeared, but were
forced to tell another story next day. .
for early next morning, marching from a little well-
situated town called Cbangu, after having passed a
'tiver, and entered upon a desert of above sifteen or
sixteen miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of
dust that was raised, that the enemy was approacning
towards us. This sight much dispirited the Chinese,
which appeared so plainly, that my old pilot took
. notice os it, and called out, Signior Inglese, these
fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
and I'm.afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will all
run away. Why, Signior, said I, what shall be done
in this case ? Done, fays he, why let fifty of our
men advance, and then flanking on each wing, en-
courage them, for I know they will sight well enough
in company. Accordingly we took his advice,
marching fifty to the right wing, and the fame num-
ber to the left, and the rest made a line of reserve,
'leaving the last 200 men to guard the camels, or to
assist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of them came forward,
viewing our posture, and traversing the ground on the
front of our line: Hereupon we ordered the two
wings to fire, and each of them to give a salvo with
their shot, which accordingly was done. And this in-
. deed put a stop to their proceeding; for soon after
wheeling off to tkerr left, and undoubtedly giving an
: account to their companions what reception they
might expect, they gave over their enterprize.'°'
When we came to the city of Naum, we retured
the governor hearty thanks, arid gave 100 crowns
'among the soldiers that guarded us. We rested there
; but one day, and then proceeded on our travels,
passing several great rivers and deserts, till, on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of Muscovy,
the first town of which was called Argun.
This happy event, as I thought it, of coming into
a christian Country, made me congratulate the Setts
.merchant upon it: He smiled at that, telling me, not
to rejoice, too soon; for, sard he, except the Ruffian
B b soldiers
soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants os the
cities upon the road, all the rest of this country sor
above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the most ig-
norant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Argun by moderate
journeys; and found convenient garrisons in the land
filled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodging of travellers;
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans,
worshipping the sun, moon and stars. And this
idolatry we met near Argun, at a city of the Tartan
and Russians joined together, called Nerifinkey: For
being curious to fee their way of living, while the
caravan continued to rest themselves in that city, I
.went to one of their villages, when there was to be
one of their solemn sacrifices. There behold upon
the stump of an old tree, was placed an idol of wood,
more ugly than the representation of the devil him-
self; its head was such as resembled no living crea-
ture; its ears were as big and high as goats horns,
a crooked nose, four-cornered mouth, and horrible
teeth: it was cloathed in sheep-skins, had a great
Tartar bonnet, with two horns growing through it, and
was eight foot high, without feet, legs or propor-
tion. Before this idol, there lay 16 or 17 people,
who brought their offerings, and were making their
prayers ; while at a distance stood three men and one
bullock, as victims to their ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatest
astonishment and reflection ; which soon turning to
rage and sury, I rode up to to the image, and cut_in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns;
while one of my men that was with me, pulled at it
by its sheep-skin garment: But immediately an hi-
deous howling and outcry ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people coming about our ears*
we were obliged to sly for it.
t 3°3 V
-But I had not done with the monster; for the ca-
ravan bting to rest three nights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and I was re-'
solved to tike four ar sive men well armed with me,
in or lor to destroy th.'' idol,' and shew the people how
little reason they had to trust to it, who could not
save itsels. At fust he laughed at me, representing
the danger of it 5 and when it was destroyed, what
time had we to preach to them better things, whose
zeal and ignorance were'm the highest degree, and
both unparalelled ; that if 1 should be.taken by them,
I should be served like a poor Ruffian, who contemned
their worship; that is, be stripped naked, and tied to
the top of the idol, there shot at with arrows till
my body was sull of them, and then burnt as a sa-
crifice to the monster: But, Sir, said he, since your
zeal carries you so far, rather than you should be
alone, I will accompany you, and bring a stout fellow,.
equal to yourself, if he will assist us in this design:
And accordingly he brought one called Captain Ri-
chardson, who hearing the story, readily consented;
but my partner declined it, being altogether out os'
his way: And so we three, and my man servant,
resolved to execute this exploit about midnight; but
upon second thoughts we deferred it to the next night,
by reason the caravan being to go from thence next
morning, we should be out of the governor's power.
Well, I procured a Tartar's sheep-skin robe, a bon-
jiet, with bows and arrows, and every one of us got
the like habits. The first night we spent in.mixing
combustible matter with aqua-vitæ, gunpowder, &c..
having a good quantity of tar in a little pot. And
the last night coming to the idol about eleven o'clock,
the moon being up, we found none guarding; but
we perceived a light in the house, where we saw
the priests before. One man was for firing the hut,
another for killing the people, and a third for making
them prisoners, while the idol was destroyed. And,
in short, to the latter we agreed; so that knocking at
B b 2 the
the door, we seized the first that opened it, then stop-
ping his mouth, and tying his feet together, left him
with the idol. In this manner did we serve two others,
but the valiant Scots merchant being discovered at
length, rushed in upon them, being backed by us,
and set fire to the composition, which frightened
them so much, that we brought them all away, as
prisoners to their wooden god. Then we fell to work
with.him, daubing him all over with tar, mixed with
tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears and
mouth sull of gunpowder, with a great piece of wild
fire in his bonnet, and environed it with dry forage.
All this being done, we unloosened and ungagged
the prisoners, and set the idol on fire, which the gun-
powder blowing up, the shape of it was deformed,
rent and split, which the forage utterly consumed;
for we stayed to see its destruction, lest the ignorant
idolatrous people should have thrown themselves into
the flame. And thus we came away undiscovered,
appearing so busy in the morning among our fellow
travellers, that nohody could have suspected, but that
we had been in our beds all night. .; .
But after we were set out, and had got some small
distance from the city, there came a great multitude
of the country people to the gates, demanding sa-
tisfaction of the i?i^jSa«.Governor, for insulting their
priests, and burning their great Cham Chi Thaungu^
who dwelt in the sun, and that no mortal would vio-
late his image, but some Christian miscreants: And
therefore,. being already 30,000 strong, they de-
nounced war against. him and all bis Christians. .
The Governor assured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been out;
that indeed there was a caravan that went away that
morning, that he would send after them to inquire into-
it, and whoever were the offenders should be deli-
vered into their hands. This satisfied them for the.
present; but the Governor sent to inform us, that if
any of us had done it, we should make our escape;
or
or if not, make all the haste away possible, while he
kept them in play as long as he could. Hereupon we
marched two days and two nights, stopping but very
little, till at last we rested at a village called Plothus,
and hasted to Jarawena, another of the Czar's colo-
nies. But on the second day's march from the for-
mer, having entered the desert, and passed the lake
Shaks-Oser, we beheld a numerous body of horse on
the other side of it to the north, who supposed we
had passed that side of the lake: and in three days
after, having'found their mistake, or been informed.
what way we went, they came upon us toward the
dusk of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp
between two little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and we cut down.
some trees to place in our rear, but before we bad.
finished our situation, the enemy were at hand. But
not falling on us immediately, they sent three meflen-
gers,. who demanded the men who had insulted their
priests, and burnt their god Cham Chi Thatmgu^ that
they might be burnt, and then they would peaceably.
depart; hut if not, they would destroy them a]l.
Hereupon .our men:stared at one another, .but nobody"
was the word, a3> indeed nobody. knew it but
who did it. Upon which. the leader of .the caravan
answered, that they were peaceable merchants, who
meddled with none of their priests or. gods ; and.
therefore defired them not to disturb us, .and put us to.'
the necessity. of defending ourselves.. But so  far. was
this from satisfying them,.that the next. morning,.
coming to our.right, they let. fly a volley of arrows
si us, but hurt not any, because we shckered .ourselves
under. the baggage: But as we expected to came to .
an engagement, a cunning father, a CoJJack, .obtain-
ing leave ot' the leader to .go to. these people,. mounts
his horse, and rides1 directly. from our. rear;. when.
taking a circuit, he conies back as though he had been
sent.express .} tills them a formal story, that .the vil-
B b 3 laiu;
lains who burnt the Cham Chi Thaungu, were gone to
Sibielfka, with a resolution to burn the god Shal-
lfar, belonging to the Tongueses. Upon which, be-
lieving this cunning Tartar, who was servant to our
Muscovites, away they drove to Sibeil/ka, and in less
than three hours were out of sight, nor did we ever
hear of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rested'
there five days, and then entered into a frightsul de-
sert, which held us twenty-three days march, infested
with several small companies of robbers or Mogul Tar-
tars, who never had the courage to attack us. But
after we had pasted over this place, we found several
Tartars: In particular the governor of Adinjkoy offered
us a guard of fifty men to the next station, if we ap-
prehended any danger. All this way the natives
retained the fame Paganism and barbarity, only not
so dangerous, being conquered ' by the Muscovites.
The cloathing, both of men and -women, are the
skins of beasts, living under ground in vaults and
caves, which run into one another t They have idols.
in almost every family; besides they adore the sun and
stars, water and snow, and the least uncommon
thing that happens in the element, alarms them as
much as thunder and lightning does the unbelieving
'Jews.
Through all the country nothing more remarkable
occurred : When we had got through this great desert I
before mentioned, after two days farther travel, we
came to Jane%ay, a Muscovite city, on the great^river
ib called, which, we are told, parts Europe from
Asia. Neither here are the Pagans much better, though
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder will
cease, when I inform my reader of what was ob-
served to me, that the Czar converts the Tartars with
soldiers not clergymen, and is more assiduous to
make themfaithsul subjects than good Christians.
. from
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
s. pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country,.
for want of good management and people, and those.
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where the
Jkfuscovite criminals are banished to, if they are
not put to death. The next city we came to, was
the capital city ofSiberia, called Tobeljki, when having
been almost seven months on our journey, and winter
drawing on apace, my partner and I consulted about
our particular asfairs, in what mannerweshould dispose
of ourselves. We had been told of fledges and rein-
deer, to carry us over the snow in the winter season,
the snow being frozen very hard, making an entire
covering to the ground, so that the fledges can run
s upon the surface without any regard to what is be-
neath. But I, being bound to England, must either
go with the caravan .XG^JereJlaw, thence west for
Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so by land?
or sea to Denmark; or else I must leave the caravan
at a little town on the Dwina, and so go to Archangel,
where I Was sure of shipping either to England, Hol-
land or Hamburg. One night I fell in company with.
an illustrious, but banished prince, whose company
and virtues were such as made me propose a method'
to him to obtain his liberty. My dear friend, said'
he, as I am free from my miserable greatness, with
all its attendants of pride, aoibition, avarice and
luxury ; if I should escape from this place" those per-
nicious seeds may revive again, to my lasting disquie-
tude : Therefore let me stay in a blessed confinement.
For I am but flesh, a mere man, with passions and
affections as such : O be not my friend and tempter
too! Struck dumb with surprize, I stood silent a
while; nor was he in le{j disorder, by which perceiv-
ing he wanted to give vent to his mind, I defired him
to consider of it, and so withdrew. But about two
hours after he came to my apartment, Dear friend,
laid he> though I cannot consent to accompany you^ I
shall
shall have this satisfaction in parting, that you leave
tne an honest man still ; but as a testimony of my af-
fection to you, be pleased to accept this present of sa-
bles.
I sent my servant the next morning to his Lord-
ship, with a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of gold: But he on-
ly accepted the tea, one piece of damask, and a
wedge of gold, for the curiosity of the Japan stamp
upon it. Not long after he sent for me, and told me,
that what he had resused himself, he hoped, upon his
account, I would grant to another, whom he should
name : In short, it was his only son, who was above
200 miles distant from him on the other side of the
Oby, whom he could fend for, if I gave my consents
This I soon complied with, upon which he sent his .
servants the next day for his son, who returned in
twenty days time, bringing seven horses loaded with.
valuable surs. At night the young Lord was con-
ducted incog. to our apartment, where his father pre-
sented him to me. We then consulted the best way
for travelling, and, after "buying a.considerable quan-.
tity of sables, black fox-skins, fine ermines,' &c.
( which I sold at Archangel at a good price ) we set out.
of this city the beginning of "June, making a small.
caravan, being about 32 horses and camels, of which,
I represented, the head. My young Lord had with;
hinva..very faithsul Siberian servant, well acquainted!
with the roads:. We shunned the principal towns
and cities, as Xurhen\ SukKamaJkoi, and several others,.
by reason of their strictness in. examining travellers,.
Jest any of the banished persons of distinction should.
escape. Having passed the river .Kama., we. came to a.
city on.the European fide calledi Sdlgy-Katnfijkyi where.
we found the. people mostly Pagans as before.. We
then passed adesert abput 200 miles over, but in other'
places it is near 700 : In passing this wild place, we.
were beset. by a troop of. men on. horseback, about.
fortyr.
4btfty-five, armed with bows and arrows. At first
they looked earnestly on us, and then placed them-
selves in our way. We were above sixteen men,
and drew up in a little line before our camels. My
young Lord sent out his servant to know who they
were; but when he approached them, he neither
knew a word they said, nor would they admit him to
come near them at his peril, but prepared to shoot'
him. At his return he told us, he believed them to /
be Calmuci Tartars, and that he thought there were
more of them upon the desert. This was but a small
comfort to us, yet seeing a little grove at about a
quarter of a mile distance, we moved to it by the
old Portugueze pilot's advice, without meeting any
opposition. In this place we found a springy piece! .
of ground, a great spring running into a1 little brook.
on one side, joined with another like it a little farther,
which in short was the head of the river Writfka.
We went to work, immediately cutting down great
arms of trees, and laid them hanging ( not quite cut
off) from one tree to another. And thus we waited .
the motions of the enemy, without perceiving any
advance they made towards us: But about two hours
before night, being joined by some others, they made
about So horse, among whom we fancied were some
women, and coming on us with great sury, we firei;
without ball, calling to them in the Ruffian tongue to*
know their business ; but they not understanding us,
or pretending so, came directly to the weod-side, /
not considering that we were so fortified, that they"
could not break in. Our old pilot proved both our
captain and engineer, and defired us not to fire till .
they came within pistol-sliot, and he gave the word
of command; then to take the surest aim: But he
did not bid us fire, till they were within two pikes of' .
us; and then we killed 15 of them, wounded several,
as also their horses, having every one charged with
two or three balls at least. So much were they sur-
prized at our nrrdauntedness, that they fell back about
100
100 rods from us. In the mean time, we loaded
again, and all sallying out, secured four or five of
their horses, whose rickrs we found were killed, and
perceived them to bt; Tartars. About an hour after
they made another attempt to break in, but sinding
us ready to receive them, they retired. .
All that night we worked hard in strengthening our
situation, and barracadoing the entrances into the
woods; but when day-light came, we made a very
unwelcome discovery; tor the enemy being encou-
raged by their assistance, had set up eleven or twelve
tents, in the form of a camp, about three quarters
of a mile from us. I must confess, I was never more
concerned in my life, giving myself, anil all that I
had over for lost : As for my partner, as the loss of his
goods would be his ruin, before they should be taken
from him, he would sight to the last drop of his
blood. But to escape their numbers, I had recourse
to a stratagem, by kindling a large slame to burn all
night; and no sooner was it dark, but we pursued
our journey towards the pole, or the north star, and
so travelling all night, by six o'clock in the morn-
ing we came to a Ruffian village, called Kermanzin-
Jkoy, Vhcre we passed a little river called Kerzta, and
from thence came to a large town named Ozonoys,
where we .neard that several troops of Calmuck Tar-
tars had been abroad upon the desert, but that we.
Were past all danger. Within sive days after, we
came to VtuJKmas upon the river Wiizedga: From
thence we came to Lawrenfkoy, on the 3d of July,
where providing ourselves with two luggage-boats
and a convenient bark, we embarked the 7th, ar.d
arrived at Archangel the r8ih, after a year, five
months, and three days journey, including the eight
months and odd days we spent at Toboljki. We
* came from Archangel the 20th of August in the same
year, and ar/ived at the Elbe the 30th of September.
Ar.d here indeed my partner and 1 made a very good
sale of our goods, both those of China and Siberia,
when dividing our effects, my (hare came to 3475/.
17 s. 3 d. after all the losses we had sustained, and
charges we had been at. At Hamburg my young
Lord parted from me, in order to go to the court of
Vienna, not only to seek protection, but to corre-
spond with his father's friends: And, after we had
staid four months at Hamburg, I came from thence
over land to the Hague, where embarking in the
packet, I arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705, after ten years and nine months absence
from England.
ROBINSON
ROBINSON CRUSOE'S VISION
OF THE
ANGELIC WORLD.
CHAPTER t
Of Solitude.
HOWEVER solitude is looked upon as a re-
straint to the pleasures of the world, in
company and conversation; yet it is a hap-
py state of exemption from a sea of trouble, an
inundation of vanity and vexation and disappoint-
ment. While we enjoy ourselves, neither the joy
nor sorrow of other men affect us: We are then at
i liberty, with the voice. of our foul, to speak to God.
By this we shun such frequent trivial discourse, as ever
'f becomes an obstruction i6 virtue: And how often do
we find we had reason to wish we had not been in
company, or said nothing when we were there: For
either we offend God by the impiety of our discourse,
or lay ourselves open to the violence of designing peo-
ple by unguarded expressions :And consequently per-
ceive the coldness and treachery of pretended friends,
when once involved in trouble and affliction: And
such unfaithsul intimates (I should say enemies ) who
rather by false inuendoes would accumulate miseries
upon us, than honestly assist us when suffering under
trie most artsul and designing men.' But in a state
of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard ex-
cept by the^ Great Majesty of Heaven, how happy are
we, in the blessed enjoyment of converse with our
maker ! 'Tis then we make him our friend, which
makes us above the envy and contempt of wicked
men. And when a man converses with himself,
he is sure that he does not converse with an ene-
my : At least, we should retreat to good company,
and good books: I mean not by solitude that a man
should retire into a cell, a desert, or a monastery,
which would be altogether an useless and unprofitable
restraint: For as men are formed for society, and
have an absolute necessity and dependence one upon
another; so there is a retirement of the foul, in
which it converses with heaven, even in the midst of
men: And indeed no man is more' fit to speak freely,
than he, who can without any violence to himself, re-
frain his tongue, or keep silent altogether. As to
religion, it is by this the foul gets acquainted with
the hidden mysteries of the holy writings: here she
sinds these floods of tears, in which good men wash
themselves day and night; and only makes a visit to
God, and his holy angels. In this conversation the"
truest peace and most solid joy are to be found ; it is u
continual feast of contentment on earth, and the?
means of attaining everlasting happiness in heaven.
CHAP. II.
Os Honesty.
T T ONESTYisa virtue beloved by good most, and"
*. .*. pretended to by all persons: In this there are se-
veral degrees: To pay every man his own, is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all mankind,
is the Chancery law of honesty ; and this chancery
court is in every man's breast, where his Conscience is
Lord Chancellor. Hence it is that a miser, tho' he pays
every one their own, cannot be an honest man, when
he does not discharge the good offices that are incum-
bent on a friendly, kind and generous person : For the
C c proplut
c 314 I..
prophet Isaiah faith, ch. xxxvii. 7, 8. The instru-
ments of a churl are evil: He devifeth wicked devices
to dejlroy the poor with lying words, even when the
needy spcaketh right. But the liberal devijeth liberal
things, and by liberal things jhallhe/land. 'Tis certainly
honesty, to do every thing the law requires; but
should we throw every poor debtor in prison .till he
has paid the utmost farthing, hang everjr malefactor
without mercy, exact the penalty of every bond, and
the forfeiture of every indenture : why this would be
downright cruelty, and not honesty; and is contra-
ry to that general rule, to do to another, that which you
would have done unto you. Sometimes necessity makes
an honest man a knave, when a rich man is an ho-
nest man, but no thanks to him for it. | The trial
of honesty is this: Did you ever want bread, and had
your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would starve,
rather than eat it ? Were you ever arrested; having in
your custody another man's cash, and would "rather
gorto gaol than to break it ? If so, then indeed this
maybe reckoned honesty. For King Solomon tells us,
that a good name is better than life, and is a precious
ointment, 'and which, when a man has once lo/}, he has
nothing left worth keeping.
CHAP. III.
- Of suffering JJfliclions.
A Fflictions are very common to all mankind,
and whether they proceed from losses and disap-
pointments, or the malice of men, they often bring
their advantages along with them :' For this shews
men the vanity and deceitsulness of this life, and
is an occasion of rectifying our measures, and bring-
ing us to a more modest opinion of ourselves : It tells
us how necessary the assistance of divine grace is to
us, when life itself becomes a burthen, and death
even defirable. But when the greatest oppression
comes
comes upon us, we must have recourse to Patience,
begging of God to give us that virtue. And the
more composed we are in any trouble,' the more com-
mendable is our wisdom; and the larger will be our
recompence. And let the provocation be what it
will, whether from a good-natured and conscientious,
ora wicked, perverse, and vexatious man, all this we
should take as from the over-ruling hand of God, as
a punishment for our sins. Many times injured in-,
iiocence may be abused by false oaths, or the power of
wicked, jealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rife the higher, the more it is
depressed, while the justice of God is eminently re-
markable in punishing those one way or other, who
defire or endeavour to procure the downfal of an in-
nocent man: Nor does God fail comforting an af-
flicted person, who with tears and prayers solicits
the throne of heaven for deliverance and protection.
David fays, That his foul was full of trouble, and his
life drew near unto the grave. But certainly David's
afflictions made him eminently remarkable, particu-
larly when pursued by King Saul, and hunted as a
partridge over the mountains. But one thing which
stands by innocence, is the love of God: For were
we to suffer disgrace, nay, an ignominious death it-
self, what consolation does innocence procure at our
latest conflict, our last moments?
CHAP. IV.
Of Immorality. of Conversation, and the vulgar Errors
of Behaviour.
A S conversation is a great part of human happi-
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet
tempered man, who is always fit for it; to fee an air
of humour and pleasantness sit upon every brow, and
even something angelic upon every countenance:
Whereas if we observe a designing man, we shall find
C c 2 a mark
a mark of involuntary sadness breaks in..on his joy,
and a certain insurrection in the soul against the ty-
ranny of profligate principles. N .
They err very much, who think religion, or a strict
morality discomposes the mind, and renders it unfit
for conve'sation ; for it is "rather that which inspires
us to innocent mirth, indeed, without a counterfeit
joy, as vicious men appear with: And indeed wit is
as consistent with religion, as religion is with good
manners; nor is there any thing in the limitation of
virtue and religion, that should abate the pleasure of
it, but on the contrary increase it.
But on the other hand, many men, by their own
vice and intemperance, disqualify themselves for con-
versation, in being of cynical, morose, surly and rude
tempers, though they boast themselvesotherwife. Con-
versation is immoral, where .discourse is indecent,
immodest, scandalous, slanderous and abusive. How
great is their folly, and how much it is exposed, by
affronting their best friend, even God himself, before
men, whose notions are uncertain, and yet who
laugh at the fool when his fear cometh!
The great scandal atheistical and immoral discourse
gives to virtue, ought, ;nethinks, to be punished by
the judges: Make a man once cease to believe a God,
and he has nothing left to limit his foul but mere phi-
losophy. And how incongrous is this to govern-
ment, that a man should be punished for drunkenness
or swearing, and yet have liberty to affront, and even
deny the Majesty of Heaven? If a man gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, or perhaps speaks a word
without any offensive meaning, he flies into a passion,
quarrels, fights, and perhaps murders him; or after-
ward* prosecutes him at Jaw with the utmost villainy
and oppression.
"The next thing to be refrained is obscene discourse,
which is the language only of the proficients in de-
bauchery, who ;iever repent but in a gaol or an hos-
pital;
pital; and whose carcasses stink as bad as their dis-
course, till the body becomes too nasty for the soul
tojtay any longer in it.
Nor is false talking less to be avoided: For lying
is the sheep's cloathing hung upon the wolPs back;
'tis the Pharisee's pra)er, the whore's blush, the hy-
pocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak, 'tis Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss; in a
word, 'tis mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even impos-
sible too: Others lie for gain, to deceive, delude, and
betray: And a third fort lie for sport, or for fun'.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
cious ; who foment differences, and carry tales from
one house to another, in.order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard or reverence for
truth.
C H A P. V.
Of the present State of Religion in'the World.
T Doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than
.* religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity: And it
is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of.
people there are, surnished with. the powers of rea-
son and the gifts of nature, and. yet abandoned to.
the grossest ignorance and depravity. But it would
be uncharitable for. us to . imagine, (as some Papists
abounding vvith too much. ill-nature, the only scan-
dal to religion, do) that they will certainly be in the
state of damnation aster.this life: For how can we
thinst it consistent. with the mercy and goodness of
an infinite beiii?, to damn those creatures, when he:
has not surnishcdthern with the light of his gospel P
Or how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots
prescribe rules to the justice and mercy of God \
C c 3 We
We are told by some people, that the great image
which King Nebuchadnezzar set up to be adored by
his people, held the representation of the sun in his
right hand, as the principal object of adoration.
But to wave this discourse of Heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are held amongChristians?
And how do we doom one another to the devil, while
all profess to worship the fame Deity, and to expect
the fame salvation?
When I was at Portugal there was held at that
time the court of justice of the inquisition. All the
criminals were carried in procession to the great
church; where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvas, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the Catholic faith and Blessed
Virgin.
1 am sorry to make any reflections upon Christians;
but indeed in Italy the Romijh religion seems the most
cruel and mercenary upon earth: And a very Judi-
cious person who travelled through Italy from Turkey
tells us, " That there is only the face, and outward
pomp of religion there; that the church protects
murderers and assassins, and then delivers the civil
magistrates'over to Satan for doing justice; interdicts
whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches for want
of paying a few ecclesiastic dues, and so puts a stop to
religion for want of their money: That the Court
of Inquisition burnt two men for speaking dishonour-
ably of the Blessed Virgin, and the miffionaries. of
China tolerated the worshipping the devil by their new
converts: That Italy was the theatre, where religion
was the grand opera; and that the Popish clergy were
no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah was come in the flesh.
And as to their Protestants, they are the followers of
Lelius Secinus, who denied our Saviour's divinity;
and have no concern about the divine inspiration of
the Holy Ghost. 1st
£ 3*9 3 „;l .
In Muscovy their churches are built of wood, and"
indeed they have but wooden^ priests, though of the
Greek church: They pray as much to St. Nicholas, as
Papists do to the Virgin Alary, for protection in all
their difficulties or afflictions.
As to Lutherans, they only differ from the Romans
in believing Consubstantiation, instead of Transub-
ftantiation; but like them they are much pleased
.with the external gallantry and pomp, more than the
true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
.every where crowded with them, and the Churches
full of women ; but surely never was a nation so sull
of blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and even.
as void of morals, as those people who confess their
fins to them,
Now it seems strange, that while all men own the
Divine Being, there should be so many different sen-
timents of paying him obedience in the Christian
church : I know not what reason to assign for this,
except it be their different capacities and faculties.
And indeed upon this account, we have perceived
in all Christian countries what mortal feuds have
been about religion : what wars and bloodshed have
molested Europe, till the general pacification of the
German troubles at the treaty of JVeJiphalia; and
since between the Lutheran churches ? And should I
take a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions are
between Christians in this kingdom about Episcopacy,
Presbytery,. the Church of England men and the
Dissenters; and where they withstand one another,
like St. Paul and St. Peter, even to the face; as
much as to fay, carry on the dispute to the utmost
extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such differ-
ences in religious points, and why these breaches
should.be so hot and irreconcileable ? All the answer
I can give to this, is,that we enquire more concern-
ing
mg the truth os religion, than any other nation in the
world; anil the anxious concern we have about it
makes us jealous of every opinion; and tenacious of
% our own: And this is not because we are more su-
rious and rash than other people; but the truth is,
we are more concerned about them, and being sensi-
ble that the scripture is the great rule of faith, the
standard for life and dodtrine, we have recourse to
it ourselves, without submitting to the pretended in-
fallible judge upon eirth.
There is another question, pertinent to the former,
what remedy can we apply to this malady? And to
this I must negatively answer, not to have us be less
religious, that we might differ less about it: And this
is striking at the very root of all religious differences;
for certainly, where they to be carried on with a peace-
able spirit, willing to be informed, our variety of
opinions would not have the name of differences;
nor should we separate in communion of charity,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less usesul question to start, namely,
where will our unhappy religious differences end ? To
which I hope I may answer, In Heaven: There all
unchristian and unbrotherly differences will find a pe-
riod; there we shall embrace many a sinner that here
we think it a dishonour to converse with; and per-
ceive many a heart we have broken here with ceiir-
sures, reproaches and revilings, made whole again
by the Iftlm of the fame Redeemer's blood. Here we
shall perceive there have been other flocks than those
of our fold ; that those we have excommunicated have
been taken into that superior communion v and, in a
word', that those contradicting notions and principles,.
which we thought inconsistent with true rejigion, we
shall then find rcconcileable to themselves, to one an-
other, and to the fountain of truth. If any man
ask me, why our differences cannot be ended on
earth? I answer, were we all thoroughly convinced,
. that
[;
that then they would be reconciled, we would put an
end to them before; but this is impossible to be done:
for as ^mens certain convictions of truth are not
equal to one another, or to the weight and signisican-
cy of such veracity; so neither can a genera] esfect
of this affair be expected on this side of time, this
side of the grave.
Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to difcourle a little of the wondersul excellency ©f ne-
gative religion and negative virtue. The latter sets
out like the Pharisee, with God, I thank thee; 'tis
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope;
and in a word, 'tis a positive vice: For it is either
a mask to deceive others, or a mist to deceive ourselves.
A man thus cloathed with negatives, thus argues : I
am not such a drunkard as roy landlord, such a thief
as my tenant, such a swearer as my neighbour ; nei-
ther am I a cheat, an atheist, a rakish fellow, or a
highwayman : No! I live a sober, regular, retired
life: I am a good man, I go to church, God I thank
thee. Now though a man boastsof his virtue in contra-
diction to the vices mentioned, yet a person had bet-
ter be them all together than the man himself, for he is
so sull of himself, so persuaded that he is good and
religious enough already, that he has no thoughts of
any thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God
Almighty now and then, and thank him, that he has
no occasion for him; and has the vanity to think
that his neighbours must imagine well of him too.
Now the negative man though he is no drunkard,
yet is intoxicated with the pride of his own worth:
A good neighbour and peacemaker in other families,
but a tyrant in his own; appears in church for
a shew, but never falls upon his knees in his closet;
does all his alms before men to be seen by them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
less of the first; appears religious to be taken notice
of by men, but without intercourse or communication
between God and his own foul. Pray what is this
. man?
man? Or what comfort is there of the life he lives?
He is insensible of faith, repentance, and a chris-
tian mortified life: In a word, he is perfectly
a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us, for a while, enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has he
ofhismispent hours, and of the natural reflux of all
our minutes on to the great center and gulph of
life, Eternity ? Does he know how to put a right
value on time, or esteem the life-blood of his foul,
as it really is, and act in all the moments of it, as one
that must account for them? If then you cannot form an
equality between what he can do, and what he shall re-
ceive; less can it be founded upon his negative vin
tue, or what he forbore to do; and if neither his ne-
gative or positive piety can be equal to the reward,
and to the eternity that reward is to last for, what
then is become of the Pharisee, when he is to be
judged by the sincerity of his repentance, and re-
warded according to the infinite grace of God, with
a state of blessedness to an endless eternity?
When the negative man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is filled with as much horror and
dread, as Fxlix, when St. Paid reasoned to him of
temperance, righteousness, and of judgment to come:
For Falix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man ; and he was
made sensible, by the apostle, that as a life of virtue
and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life; so
eternal happiness must proceed from another spring;
namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked
God, who having erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus
Christ would separate suerras by faith and repentance
he had brought home and united to himself by thegrace
of adoption; and on the foot of his having laid down
his life as a ransom for them, had appointed them to
salvation, when all the philosophy, temperance, and
righteousness in the world besides, was ineffectual,
and
and this, I fay, it was that made Falix, this nega-
tive man, tremble. .
C H A P. VI.
Os listening to the Voice of Providence.
'T^HE magnisicent and wife King Solomon bids us cry
*~ aster knowledge, and list up our voice for under-
standing; which is explained to us a religious know-
ledge by the following words: Then jhalt thou under-
Jland the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of
God. By which undoubtedly he meant, to enquire
after every thing that he has permitted us to know,
and not to search into those ways that are unsearch-
able, and are effectually locked up from our know-
ledge. Now, as listening to the Voice of Providence is
my present subject, I am very willing in the first place,
to suppose, that I am writing to those who own, I.
That there is a. God, a first great moving cause of all
things, an eternal power, prior, and consequently
superior, to all power and being. 2. That this eter-
nal power, which is God, is the sovereign creator
find governor ofheaven and earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions what persons in
'the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the go-
verning power, I offer that glorious text, Ps. xxxiii.
6. where the whole trinity is entitled to the whole
creating work; and therefore in the next place, I
shall lay down these two propositions.
I. That the Eternal God guides by his Providence the
whole universe, which was h eated by his povier.
II. Tljut this Providence manifests a particular care
over, and concern in the governing and diretling
man, the most noble creature upon earth.
Now it is plain, that natural religion proves the
sirst, by intimating the necessity of a Providence
guiding and governing the world, from the conse-
quence of the wisdom, justice, prescience, r.nd good-
ness
ness of the Almighty Creator: For otherwise it would
be absurd to think that God should create a world,
without any care or providence over it, in guiding
v the operations of nature, so as to preserve the order
of his. creation.
Revealed religion gives us light into the care and
concern of his Providence, by the climates being
made habitable, the creatures subjected and made nou-
rishing, and all vegetative life made medicinal; and
all this for the fake of man, who is made viceroy to
the king of the earth. The short description I shall
give of Providence is *his, that it is that operation
of the power, of the wisdom, justice and goodness
of God, by which he influences, governs and directs,
not only the means, but the events of all things,
which concern us in this sublunary world; the sove-
reignty of which we ought always to reverence, obey
its motions, observe its dictates ; and listen to its voice.
The prudent man foreseeth evil, and hideth hintfelf;
that is, as I take it, there is a secret Providence inti-
mates.tous, that some danger threatens, if we strive
not to shun it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull
against the royal martyr King Charles I. the same day
Sir "John Hotham was put to death by the parliament
for that vety action : the fame day that the King
himself signed the warrant for the execution of the
Earl of Stafford, the same day of the month was he
barbarously murdered by the blood-thirsty Oliverian
crew : And the lame day that King 'James II. came
to the crown against the bill os exclusion, the same
day he was voted abdicated by the parliament, and the
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling.into the like danger : But such,
who are utterly careless of themselves after, shew
a lethargy of the worst nature, which seems to me to
be a kind of practical atheism, or at least a living in
a contempt of heaven, when he receives good at the
hand of his maker, but is unconcerned at the nature
and original of it; neither when he receives evil does
it bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders, the general being
prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered them to
cast dice upon the drum head for their lives: The
first throwing two sixe?, wrung his hands, but was
surprized when the other threw two sixes also. The
osficer appointed to fee the execution ordered them to
throw again ; they did so, and each of them threw two
fives; at which the soldiers that stood round shouted,
and said neither of them was to die. Hereupon the
osficer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
them to throw again, and.then came up two sours:
The general being made acquainted with it, fends
for the men, and pardoned them: / love, fays he,
in such extraordinary cases to lijlen to the voice of Pro-
vidence. . .'
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks to
men, by . appearance of angel?, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham,
Lot, and Jacob; so angels have appeared to many in
other cafes, as Manoah and his wife, 'Lacharia, the
Virgin Mary, and to the apostles; others have been
warned in a dream, as King Alimilech,. the false pro-
phet Balaam, and many others.
"It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry, what
we shall be after this life, being assured that there is
a place reserved for the reception of cur souls afte/
death: For if we are to be, we must have a lu.hcre,
which the scriptures assert by the examples of Dives
and Lazarus. The dodtrine of spirits was long be-
lieved before our Saviour's time; for even the dis-
ciples of the blessed Jesus perceiving our Saviour walk-
ing on the sea, they were much surprized, as though
D d they
they had seen a spirit. Nay, in those ages of the.
World, it was believed that spirits intermeddled in
the affairs of mankind; and throughout the Old
Testament I do not find any institution, that in the
least contradicts it. All the pains and labour that
some learned men have taken to consute the story os
the witch oiEndar, and the appearance of an old man
personating Samuel, cannot make such apparitions in-
consistent with nature or religion: And it is plain,
that, was it either a good or/ bad spirit, it prophetically
told the unfortunate king what should happen the
next day: For, said the spirit, The Lord will deliver
thee into the hand of the Philijlines; and to-morrow. jhalt
thou, and thy sons, be with me.
Abundance of strange notions possessed me when I
was in the desolate island; especially of a moonshiny
night, when every bush seemed a man, every. tree a
man on horseback. When I crept into the dismal
cave, where the old goat lay expiring, whose articu-
late groans even resembled those of a man, how was
I surprized on this occasion, when my blood chillei
in my veins, a cold sweaty dew fat on my forehead,'
my hair stood upright, and my joints, like Beljhaz-
zar's knees, shook against one another. And indeed,
though I afterwards found what it was, the remains
of this surprizedid not wear off me for a great while;
and I had frequently some returns of those vapours
on different occasions, and sometimes without any oc-
casion at all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just laid down in my bed, one of
my feet pained me, after that came a numbness suc-
ceeded with a tingling in my blood; when on a. sud-
den I thought something alive lay upon me, from my
knee to above half my leg. Hereupon.immediately
I flung myself out of bed in the dark, where I thought
the creature lay: But finding nothing, Lord deliver mt
from an evil spirit) said.I, what can this be? And
when
when I liyhtect a candle, I could perceive no living;
creature in the place with me, but the poor parrot,
who being frighted, cried out, Isold your tongue, and
Whilt't the matter with you? which words I ha<{
taught him, by faying so to him, when hemade such
screaming noises that I did not like. Lord, said I
aloud, surely the dsv'd htis been here. Hold your tongue,
lays Poll. I then was mad at the bird, and putting
on my cloaths, cried I am terribly frighted. Wbat's
the matter with you? fays Poll. You toad, said I,
I'll knock your brains out. Hold your tongue, cried
he again, and so fell a chattering, and calling Robin-
son Crusoe, as be did before But after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to see
it was a distemper that affected the nerves, and so
my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not
know ; nor are we sensible of their being conveyed this
way, from the spirits unembodied, to ours that are
in life ; or of their being conveyed that way, name-
ly, from us to them.: The. latter certainly is done
without the help of organs, and the former is con-
veyed by the understanding, and the retired faculties
of the foul. . .
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse.
The more particular discoveries of the converse of
sprits, seem to me as follow:
Dreams, voices, noises, impulses, hints, appre-
hensions, involuntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was .pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Jtffh was directed of God
m a dream to go to Egypt, and so were the wise men
warned in a dream to depart into their own country
another way, to avoid the sury of Herod. I am not
like those who think dreams are the mere dosing of
a delirious he ad, or the relicts of a day's perplexities or
pleasures; but on the contrary, I must take leave.to
D d % fay,
say, I never had any capital mischief besel me in my
life, but I had some notice of it by a dream ; and
had I not been^ thoughtless unbelieving creature, I
might have taken many a warning, and avoided ma-
ny of the evils I afterwards fell into, merely by a to-
tal neglect of those dreams.
I remember, I was present at a dispute between a
layman and a clergyman upon the subject of dreams:
The first thought no regard should be given unto
them, that their communication from the invisible to
the visible world was a mere chimera, without any
solid foundation: For, i. (said he) if dreams were
from the agency of any prescient being, the motive*
would be more direct, and the discoveries more plain;
and not by allegories and emblematic fancies expres-
sing things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid
it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely
fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy of such notices,
in cafes equally important, prove they did not pro-
ceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most dis-
tinct dreams had nothing in them of any significancy,
it would be irrational and vain to think that they came
from heaven. And, 5. That as men were not always
thus warned or supplied with notice of good or evil,
so all men are not alike supplied with them ; and what
reason could we give, why one man or one woman
lhould not have the same hints as another.
To all this the clergyman gave answer, 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against.them, as being dark and doubtsul, they are ex-
pressed generally by hieroglyphical representations, si-
milief, illusions, and sigurative emblematic ways, by
which means, for want of interpretation, the thing
was not. understood, and consequently the evil not
shunned..2. That we charge God foolishly, to fay he
has given the notice of evil without the power to
avoid it; for if any one had not power to avoid the
evii,
'evfl, it was no notice to him; and it was want of
giving due heed to' that notice, that men first. ne-
glected themselves, and then charged the Judge of all
the earth with injustice, 3. That we ought not to
find fault with the inconstancy of these notices, but
rather our crazy understandings by pretending dreams
were not to be regarded, and neglect when the voice
really spoke to us for our good. It was a great mis-
take to say dreams had no import at all; it might
rattier be said, none that we could perceive the rea-
son of, which was owing'to our blindness and supine
.negligence to be secure at one time, and our heads
too much alarmed at another; so that the spirit which
we might be said to be converting with in a dream,
was Constantly and equally kind and caresul; but our
powers Hot always in the fame state of action, nor
equally attentive to or retentive of the'hints that were
'given.. And, 5. To answer the last question,. why
people are not equally supplied? This seemed to be
no question; for Providence itself might have some
stiarein the diruction of it, and then that Providence
might be limited'by some superior direction; That
as to the converse of spirits, he could not tie aip to a
stated converse: Such a thing there Was, but why
there was so much of it, and'no more,' was none of
his business, and that nofuch discovery had ever been
made yet to mankind. Nor are we less to imagine of
waking dreams, trances, visions, moists, hints, im-
pulses, and all the waking testimonies of an in visible
world, and cf the communication thafth're is be-
tween us and them, which commonly enttrtain us
with our eyes open. .
One time my fancy soared on high, to fee what
discoveries I could make in those cleaner regions^ I
sound that such immense'bodies es the sun, stars, pla-
nets and moons in the great circle of the lower hea>-
ven. is far from being souad in the study cf nature*
<>n the surface of the earth: Here I saw many things
D d 3 that.
that we can entertain little or no notion of in a state
of common superficial life, and the emptiness of "our
notion that the planets were made habitable worlds;
that is, I mean, for the subsistence and existence of
man and beast, and the preservation of the vegetative
and sensitive life: No, no, this is, I assure you, a
world of spirits: For here I saw a clear demonstra-
tion of Satan being the prince of the power of the
air, keeping his court or camp, with innumerable
angels to attend him: But his power is not so great
as we imagine, he can tempt us to the crime, but
cannot force us to commit it: Humanum ejl peccare.
Neither has the devil power to force the world into
a rebellion against heaven, though his legions are em-
ployed in the savage nations to set up their master for
a god, and who made the Heathens either worship
him in person, or by his representatives, idols and mon-
sters, with the cruel sacrifices of human blood. Now
as to the limitations of the devil's power, you must
understand, that there are numbers of good
angels sent from the higher and blest abodes, to dis-
concert and oppose their measures: And this every
Christian, I hope, believes when he prays to God, the
father of spirits, to give his angels charge over him
while he flumbereth and ileepeth. For if by these
preventing powers the devil was not restrained, the
earth would be subjected to dearth, droughts and
famine; the air infected with noxious sumes ; and,
in a word, mankind would be utterly destroyed,
which might oblige our maker to the necessity of a
new Fiat, or else have no more creatures to honour
and worship him. . .
As the devil neve;' wanted insinuators, I shall ob-
serve, that I learned a way how to make a man dream
of what I pleased. For instance, let us suppose one to
be sound afleep, let another lay his mouth close to his
ear, and whisper any thing so softly as not to awake
him, the sleeping man shall dream os what has been
so whispered in his ear; nay, I can assure you, these
insinuating devils can do this even when we are awake,
which I call Impulses of the mind : For from whence,
but from these insinuators, come our causeless passions,
involuntary wickedness, or sinsul defires I who
else forms ideas in the mind of man when he is
sfleep, or presents terrible or beautisul figures to the
fancy? Mr. Milton represents the devil tempting
Eve in the shape of a toad lying just at her ear,
when in her bower she lay fast asleep; and brings in
Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's rest she
had, and relating her dream to him. And likewise
I believe that good spirits have the fame intercourse
with us, in warning us against those things that arc
evil, and prompting us to those which are good.
Were we to have the eyes of our fouls opened through
the eyes of our bodies, we should see this very imme-
diate region of air which we breathe in, thronged.with
spirits now invisible, and which otherwise would be
the most terrible : We should view the secret transac-
tions .of those messengers who are employed. when the
parting foul takes its leave of the reluctant body, and
perhaps fee things nature would start back from
with the utmost terror and amazement. In a word,
the' curtain of. providence for the disposition of
things here, and the curtain of judgment for the .
determination of the state of fouls hereafter, would
be alike drawn back; and what heart could support
here its suture state in life, much less. that of its
suture state after life, even good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance,. being about se-
ven miles distant from London, a friend that came to
dine with him, solicited him to go to the city. What
for, said the gentleman,. is there any occasion for me?
no, Sir, said the other,. nothing at all, except the en-
joyment of your good company; and so gave over im-
portuning him. Just then a strong impulse of |mind
urged
srged the gentleman, and pursued him like a voice",
with^ go to London, go to London. Hark ye, says he
to his friend, is all well at London? Am I wanted
there? Or did you ask me to go with you on any par-
ticular account? are all my family well? Yes, in-
deed, Sir, said he, I perceived them all very hearty ; and
I did not ask ydu to go to London upon any particular
account whatsoever, except it was for tile fake of
your good Company. Again, tie put off his resolu-
tion, but still the impulse suggested to him, Go f»
London; and at length he did so; and when became
th.sre he found a letter and messenger had been . there
to seek him, and'to tell him of a particular business,
which was first and last above a thousand pounds to
hi«n, and which might have inevitably been lost, had
, he not. returned to London that night.::
The obeying of several hints, hi secret impulses,
argues great wisdom. I knew a m.aflthat was under
misfortunes, being guilty os'misdemeanors against the
governments when, .absconding for fear of His ruin,
all his friends advising him not to put himself in the
hands of the law^ one morning as he awaked, he
felt a strong impulse darting into his mind thu», IVrltt
a letter to them: And this was repeated several times'
to his mind, and at last he answered to it as if it had
been a voice, Who jhall 1write to? Immediately.it re-
turned, Write to the Judge: And this impulse pursued
him for several days, till at length he took pen, ink
and paper, and set down to write to him; when im-
mediately words. flowed from his pen like streams
from a fair fountain, that even charmed'himself with
expectation of success: In short, the letter was so
strenuous an argument, so pathetic ift its eloquence-
and persuasively moving, that when the judge had
read it, he sent him an answer he might be easy, for
he would endeavour to make that matter light to him;
and indeed never left exerting himself, till he had stopt
the
the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and
family.
I knew a person, who had so strong an impression
upon her mind, that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not go to steep,
the impulse she had upon her mind pressed" her not to
go to bed, which however she resisted and went to
bed, but was terrified with the thought, which, as
she called it, run in her mind, that the house would
be burnt, that she could not go to sleep. So much
discovery had she made of her apprehensions in the
family, that they were all in a fright, and applied
themseves to search from the top of the house to the
bottom, and to see every fire and every candle safe
out, so that, as they all said, it was impossible any
thing could happen in the house, and they sent to.
the neighbours on both sides to do the like. Thus
far they did well, but had she obeyed the hint, which
pressed "upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better, for the fire was actually kindled at
that time, though not broken out. About an hour
after the whole family was in bed, the house just
over the way, directly opposite, was all in a flame, and
the wind, which was very high, blowing the flame
upon the house this gentlewoman lived in, so filled
it with smoke and fire in a few moments, the street
being narrow that they had not air to breathe, or
time to do any thing, but jump out of their beds,
and save their lives; had she obeyed the hint given,
and not gone to bed, she might have saved several
things: but the few moments she had spared to her,.
were but just sufficient to leap out of bed, put some
cloaths on, and get down stairs for the house was
on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks it is
very hard, that we should obey the whispers of evil
spirits, and not much rather receive the notices which
good
good ones are pleased to give. We never perceive the
misfortune of this, but when in real danger; and
then we cry, my mind misgave me, when I was go-
ing about it: But if so, why did you flight the cau-
tion ? Why not listen to it, at to a voice? And then
there had been no reason to make this complaint.
I remember about fourteen or sifteen years ago ( as
to time I cannot be very positive ) there was a young
clergyman in the. city of Dublin in Ireland who
had a very uncommon dream. That a gentleman
had.killed his wife / who was a relation of his) by stab-
bing her in several places. The fright of this soon
awaked him; he then fell afleep a second time, dreamt
the fame dreamand, in short, a third time also.
So troubled was he in his mind, that he arose, and
knocking at his mother's chamber, told his concern,.
and of his apprehensions that all was not right at his
relation's house. Dear son, fays the good old gen-
tlewoman, mind not these foolish dreams: and I very
much wonder that you, being a person in holy or-;
ders, should have regard to such illusions. He went;
to bed again, slept and dreamt as before... And then
indeed he put on his night-gown, and went to Smith-
field, the place where his relation dwelt. Here it was,
alas! he perceived his dream too sadly sulfilled, by see-
ing his relation, the young lady, big wkh child, who
was a Protestant, stabbed in seven places, by her bar-
barous husband, Mr. Eujtace, a rigid Papist, only up-
on some discourses of religion that happened the day
before: After the wretch had stabbed her in three
places, he endeavoured to escape 'Out of a window,
but she cried My dear, don't leave me, come back; and
Jjhall be well again* At which he returned i« a hellish
rage, and gave her four wounds more; when even
in this condition, rising from her bed, fee wrapt herself
in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bishop of
Rafho'% chamber-dpor ( the Bishop lodging at that
time in the house) my Lord, said shc, O , my Lord,
make hajle unto me; but as soon as his Lordship came,
she expired in his arms, resigningher precious foul
into. the hands of Almighty God. T"he cruel wretch
her husband was shot by the pursuers, too good
a death for one who deserved the gibbet: The lady
was universally lamented' by all tender and religious
people. And this tragical relation I have mentioned
upon the account of that impulse, or dream, that the
clergyman had at the fatal time of the. bloody act.
. It might be expected I should enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the rea^
lity of them ; and whether they can revisit the place of
their former existence, and resume those faculties of
speech and stvape which'tbey had when living !. but
as these are very doubtsulimatters, I shall only make
. a few observations upon them.
I once heard ofa man who would. allow the reality
of apparitions., but laid it all on the devil,. and think_-
ing the souls of men departed did never. appear; yet
to this very man something did' appear, and then he
said, he saw the shape of an antient man pass by him
in the dusk, who holding up his hand in a threaten-
ing posture, cried' out,; O wicked man, repent, repent.
Terrified with this apparition, he conlulted several
friends, who advised him to take the advice. But,
after all, it was not an apparition, but a grave and
pious gentleman, who met him by mere accident,
and had been made sensible of his wickedness ; and
who never undeceived him, lest it should hinder his
reformation. Where . we .always willing to make
good use of Satan's real appearances, I know not
but it would go a great way to banish him from
the visible world; for I am very positive he would
seldom visit, if he thought his comhjg would do us
any good: But so absolutely is he at the com-
. mand
mand of heaven, that he must go, even to do the
work he abhors.
Some people make a very ill use of the general no-
tion, that there are no apparitions, nor spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they fee them upon
every occasion : For those carry their notions farther;
even to annihilate the devil, and believe nothing about
him, neither os one kind or other : the next step
they come to is to conclude There is no God; and
so atheism takes its rife in the fame sink, with
a carelessness about suturity: But there is no occasion
to enter upon an argument, to prove the being of
the Almighty, or to illustrate his power by words,
who has so many undeniable testimonies in the breast
of every rational being to prove his existence: and
we have sussicient proofs enough to cenvince us of the
great superintendency of Divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of the world, the manifest existence
of the invisible world, the. .rfeality of spirits, aiid
intelligence between us and them. What I have
said, I hope will not mislead any person, or be a
means whereby they may delude themselves : For I have
spoken of these things with the utmost seriousness of
mind, and with a sincere and ardent defire for the
general good and benefit of the world. i
FINIS.
".I
j

:
bnag. Voy.
1
Mt
0
L I F E
And most surprifing
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of YOR K, Mariner;
WHO
Lived Eight and Twenty Years in an uninhabited
Island on the Coast of America, lying near the
Mouth of the great River of Oroonoqui: Having
. been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the
Men were drowned but himself: As also a
Relation how he was wondersully delivered by
Pyrates.
The.whole Three Volumes faithfully abridged.
The Seventh Edition.
LONDON:
Printed for S. Crowdir, in Pater - noster - Roiv;
J. Siweu, in Cornbill; W. Johnston. in
Ludgate - Street; and B. Law. in Avemarji - Lane.
M DCC LXXVil.
\
JT is very well known what universal reception
the life of this man has wet with in the world,
and therefore needs'little or no apology for this edi-
tion, which comprizes the three volumes into one
faithful abridgment. In the pi i ufel of which you
will find so many curious moral observations, so
many divine restePhns to'comfort the affiitled mind,.
a r.d such .an heavenly prospect of the wonders xlPro-
vidensecfGod, that scarce any who read it butwhat
may make some application of it to themselves, and
pleasingly be led to knowledge if the divine blessings.
But here lam sensible, that as there are feme who
complain again/I the design, in general, as an incon-
sistent romance"; so there are others who, I doubt
not, will not sail depreciating the performance of
this in particular"; they may represent, that the
abridging a werk is scandalous and ridiculous; and
that thereby is taken away from it the only orna-
ments that recommend it to wife men. If this I e
true, and they could persuade the worlds, I l!nc%v
fiot what must become of those many curious abridge
meats that are extant among us, far mere pleasant
than the tiresome eloquence of larger volumes ; nor
how well the common fort of 'people wiU be pleased
in being with-held, by an excessive price, from a hi-
story so instructive and entertaining: And do assure
. my readers, whatever they may alledge against this'
abridgment, there are not only many errors ccr-
retlcd, but several palpable and gross contradiclicns
retlisted and amended: In a word, li tre it ?'t ci.e
material circumstance omitted; neiil er is thne any
deprived of its meft prepir c'feri as ions.
The first volume treats »p his fcipwred. 'is
manner of his deliverance upon the L?tibiae
Island, and tells of all that anxiety of mind he
endured., till the uncommon accident of his being
. released, after eight and twenty years solitude.
'In the second, he appears in his prosperous con-
dition, till the death of his dear wife; when, re-
suming his former wandering inclinations, it ne-
cessarily leads us to his future adventures, and re-'
markable travels by land from the Eastern coun-
tries, which are as amusing and instructive as
his voyage by sea.
In the last place is shewn to us a prosper of the
angelic world, the blessings of peace, retirement
and contentment, which is the end of life, the glory
of happiness, and an introduction to the divine
and blessed mansions abo ve.
When this book first appeared in the world,how
delightful, how ravi/hing did it seem to every
reader? Here the passions of the mind were so beau-
tifully expressed, both in the nature of his adversity
and prosperity, that melted every heart with a
tender sympathy and compassion. Robinson Crusoe
was in every body's mouth as much as in the mouth
of Pretty Poll! But since, to this abridgment there
are added two parts more, with the natural con-
sequence of life. Surely this, methinks, cannot but
give an entire satisfaction, as much as any thing of
this kind can pcj/ibly do; and therefore, I cannot
otherwise think but it iviiibe well worth my reader's
perusal; and, Hope, merit his approbation too.
Needless therefore it is to enlarge any farther on
this performance^ but leave it to the ingenuity and
candour ofunprejudiced persons: And whatever may
be the fate of it, I do assure the public, that no pains
or labour have been wanting to render this history
delightful, instructive, and entertaining. A N
ABRIDGEMENT
OF THE
Life and Adventures
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
. <X (.. c'
^•^•etf^N the year 1632,1 was born at rir*,.
A ^>»»o«»o^5.^ of a reputable family. My father
# I I .. % was a na*'ve of Bremen, who, mer-
J 1^. chandizing at for some time,
* gained a very plentisul fortune, and
jttL' i» **«"Jl£ married my mother in 2^n?s who. re-.
ceived her sirst breath in that country. Andaslier
.maiden name was Robinson, I was called Rolinsjn.
Kreutsnqer; which not being easily pronounced in
the Ltiglijh tongue, we arc commonly known by the
name of Crupc.
i was the youngest of three brothers; the eldest.
was a Lieutenant Colonel in Lmckbarfs regiment, but
stain b/ the Spaniards.: What became of the other
I.costld nets learn.
No charge nor pains were wanting in rt.}'. ecuca-.
tion, my father designing me. for the law; yet no-
thing would serve me, but I must go to sea, both
against the will of my father, the tears of my mother,
arkl the entreaties of friends. One morning my
father expostulated very warmly with me: Says he,
| what reason have you to leave your native country,
I where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
j tent and'happiness, than to enter into a wandering con-
| dition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He recom-
mended to me Agar's wish, neither to desire adversity,
nor riches; that a middle state of life was the most
happy ; and that the high towering thoughts of rais-
ing our condition by wandering abroad, were sur-
rounded with misery and danger, and often ended
with consusion and disappointment: I entreat you,
nay I command you, fays he, to desist from these in-
tentions: Consider your eldest brother, who laid
down his life for his honour, or rather lost it for his
disobedience to my will. Ifyouwll! go, added he,
my prayers shall however be offered for your preserva-
tion ; but a time may come, when, desolate, op-
prest, or forsaken, you may wish you had taken your
poor despis:d father s counsel He pronounced these
word:. with such a moving and paternal eloquence,
while floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks,
that seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this wore off soon, and a little aster I informed
my mother, that I could not settle to any business,
my resolutions were so strong to fee the world; and
begged she would gain my father's consent, only to
go one voyage, which if it did not prove prosperous
I would never attempt a second : But my defire
was as vain as my folly in asking my mother passi-
onately exprest her dislike of this proposal, telling me,
That asjhefnw I was bent upon my own dejlrufiion,
contrary to their will and my duty, /he would fay no
more, but leave me to myself to do whatsoever I pleased.
one time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of
mine, going along with his father, who was .master
of a ship, to London: And acquainting him with my
wandering desires, he assured me of my free passage,
and a plentisul share of what was necessary. Thus,
without imploring a blessing, or taking a farewell of
my parents, I took shipping on the first of September
1651. When. our ship having no sooner left the
Humber a-stern, but there arose such a violent storm,
and being extremely sea-sick, I thought the judg-
ments of God deservedly followed me for my dis-
obedience to my dear parents. It was then only
I called to mind the good advice of my father;
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of life;
and if it pleased God to set me on dry land once
more, I would return to my parents, implore their
forgiveness, and bid a final adieu to my wandering
inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm conti-
nued; but these good resolutions decreased with the
.danger. More especially, when my companion came
to me, clapping me on the shoulder: What, Bob!
said he, sure you was not frlghtned last night with
scarce a cap-full of wind? And do you, cry'd I,
call such a violent Jlorm a cap-full of wind? A
Jlorm you fool you, said he, this is nothing ; a good
jhip and sea-room always baffle such a foolijh squall
of wind as that: But you're a frejh-water sailor:
come, boy, turn out, see what fine weather we have
now, and a good bowl of punch will drown all your
pajl sorrows. In short, the punch was made, I was
drunk, and in one night's time drowned both my
repentance and my good resolutions, entirely for-
getting the vows and promies I made in nr, distress:
And whenever any reflections would return cn me,
what by company and drinking, I soon mastered
those fits, as luendingly tailtd then;. But this only
miide
made way for another trial, whereby I could
not but sec how much I was beholden to kind Pro-
vidence.
Upon the sixth day, we came to an anchor in
Uarwiclf road, where we lay wind-bound with some
Newcastle ships; and there being good anchorage,
and out cables sound, the seamen forgot their late
toil and danger, and spent their time as merry as
if they had been on shore. But on the eighth day
there arose such a brisk gale of wind, which pre-
verted our tiding it up the river, and still increas-
ing, our ship rid fore-castle .in, having shipped se-
vtra! large seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, when I heard the master express this me-
lanrholiy ejaculation, Lord have mercy' upon us, we
jball he all lo/t arid undone! For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin, till the universal and most
dreadsul apprehensions aii'.ong us of our speedy fate,
made me get up upon deck ; and there 1 was dreadsully
asfrighted indeed: The sea went mountains high :I
could fee nothing but distress around us: Two ships*
had cut their masts on board, and another was foun-
dered: Two more, that had' lost their anchors, were
fore id out to the mercy of the ocean; and to save
our lives, we were forct.d to cut our fore-mast and
main-mast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my
dreadsul conditio.i? 1 was.but a fresh water sailor,
and therefore it seemed mo-f terrible. Our inip was
very good, but too much loaden, which made the.
sa";jrs often cry out, iSW would scunner; words I
.then Wi.s igneantof! All this while the stojm con-
tinuing, the: nu.stsr and the mere sober part of his
men 'vciit to prayers, expectini death eve/y mo-
ment In thi. middle rf the wv'.x one cried out, We
badJf rw!* a Ui ~'; another, That then was f'ur foot
U'iUcr in ihe.f;old.. i was just ready cy. expire with
fc«r,
sear, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me also in that extremi-
ty to share with them in their labour. While thus
employed, the master espying some light colliers,
fired a gun as a signal of distress; which I not un-
derstanding what it meant, and thinking that either
the ship broke, or some dreadsul thing happened,
fell into a swoon; but in that common condition of
woe, nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me
aside. with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was
a great while before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when upon the signal given,
they ventured out their boats to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had their at-
tempts been, had they not come to our ship's side,
when our men cast them a rope over a-stern with a
buoy to it, which after great labour they got hold
of, and we hawling them to us, got into their boat.
So leaving our ship, we perceived it sink in less than
a quarter of an hour, by which I knew what was
foundering at sea. And now the men incessantly
laboured to recover their own ship, but the sea ran
so high, and the wind blowing hard, they thought
it convenient to hawl within shore ; which with great
difficulty and danger at last we happily affected,
landing at a place called Qromer, not far from Win-
terton light-house: From whence we all walked to
Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many good
people surnished us with necessaries for our subsist-
ance either to Hull or London.
'Tis strange, that after all this, like the Prodigal
Son, I did not return to my father; who hearing of the
ship's calamity, for a long time thought me entombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have jhared in
bis fatted calf, as the scripture expresieth it: But
my ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of the powersul
conviction of reason and conscience.
When
When I had been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on.boarcl along with his father. His behaviour
and speech was altered, and in a melancholy manner
asked me how I did, telling his father who I was,
and how 1 had made this voyf.ge for a trial only to
proceed farther abroad: Upon which the old gentle-
man turning to me gravely said, Young man, you
ought never to go to sea any mere, but to take this for a
certain sign that you will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the same
resolution \y 'Tis a different cafe, said he, 'tit my
cailing, ana consequently my duty; but as you have
made this voyage for a trial, you fee what ill success
heaven has set before your eyes; and perhaps our mi-
series have been on your account, like Jonah in the foif
^"Tarshish: but pray what are you and on what ac-.
count did you go to sea? Upon which I very freely
declared my whole story; at the end of which he
made this exclamation, Ye sacred powers! what
had I committed, that such a wretch should enter in-
to my ship to heap upon me such a deluge of mi-
series! But soon recollecting his passions, Young man,
said he, depend upon it, if you do not go back, where-
ever you go, you will meet with disajlers and disappoint-
ments, till your fathers words are fulfilled upon you.
And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home, but shame op-
posed that good motion, as thinking I s!n.'.i!d be
laughed at by my neighbours and acquaintance. So
strange is the nature of youth, who are'; not a/L'.rrcd
to fin but vet asiiamed to repent; and fai from being
astiamcd of those actions for which they.may be ac-
counted fools, think it folly in returning to their du-
Sr, which is the principal mark cf wisdom. In
lort I travelled up to London, resolved upon a voy-
age; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaint-
ance with a captain who took a fancy to me, to go
to
appearing like a gentleman, I went on board, not
as a common sailor or fore-mast-man; nay, the com-
mander agreed I should go .that' voyage with him
without any expence; that I should be his mess-mate
and companion; and I was very welcome to carry
any thing with me, and make the best merchandize
I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my Captain for his offer; when acquainting my
friends in Fork/hire, forty pounds were sent me, the
greatest part of which I believe my dear father and
mother contributed to; and with which I bought
toys and trifles as the captain directed me. My
captain also learned me navigation, how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation,
and kd me into the knowledge of several usesul
tranches of the mathematics. And indeed this voy-
age made /me both a sailor and merchant: For I
brought home 5 pounds g ounces of gold dust for
my .adventure, which produced at my return to
London, almost three hundred pounds.. But in this
voyage I was extremely sick being thrown into
a violent calenture, through excessive heat, trading
Upon the coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees
nortb, even to the line itself.
But alas ! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief
to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his
mate, who had now got command of the ship.
But this proved unsuccesssul; for though I did not
carry quire 100/. of my late acquired wealth, so that
I had 200/. left, which I deposited with the captain's
widow, wild was an holiest gentlewoman, yet my
misfortunes in this voyage were very great upon me;
for our stup sailing towards the Canary islands, we
were chr.sed by a Sake rover; and in spite of all
the sail we could make, by crowding as much can-
vass as our yards would spread, or masts carry, the
pyrate gained upon us, and so we prepared ourselves
to sight. They had 18 guns, and we had but 12.
About three in the afternoon there was a desperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wound-
ed on both sides; but finding ourselves overpowered
with numbers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too
impotent to have the least hopes of success, we were
forced to surrender, and accordingly were all carried
into' the port of Salee. Our men were sent to the
Emperor's court to be sold there; but the pyrate
captain taking notice of me, kept me to be his own
slave.
In this condition I thought myself the most mise-
rable creature on earth, and the prophesy of my fa-
ther came afresh into my thoughts. As it happened,
my condition was better than I thought it to be, as
will soon appear. Some hopes indeed I had, that
my new patron would go to sea again,where he might
be taken by a Spamjh or Portugal man of war,
and then I should be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken, for he never took me with him, but left
me to look after his little garden, and do the drudgery
of his house; and when he returned from sea, would
make me lie in the cabin, and look after the ship.
I had no one that I could communicate my thoughts
to, which were continually meditating my escape;
no EngUjhman, Irijhman, or Scotchman here, but my-
self; and for two years I could fee nothing practi-
cable, but only please myself with the imagination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out his
ship as usual: And then he used constantly, once or
twice a week, if the weather was fair, to go out a
fishing,; taking me and a young Morejco boy to row
the boat; and so much pleased was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the fish, that he would
often
often send me with a Moor; who was one of his
kinsmen, and the Moresco youth, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
One morning, as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the shore;
and rowing we know not which way, we laboured
all the night, and in the morning found ourselves in
the ocean, two leagues from land; however, we at-
tained there at length, and we made the greater
haste, because our stomachs were exceeding sharp
and hungry. But the better to prevent such disasters,
my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with
a place behind it to steer and hawl home the main-
sheet, with other conveniencies, to keep him from
the weather, as also lockers to put in all mamv.v of
provisions; with a handsome shoulder of mutton
sail, gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us a fishing; and one
time inviting two or three persons of distinction to
go with him, made provision extraordinary, provi-
ding also three suzees, with powder and snot, that
they might have some sport at fowling along the sea
coast. The next morning, the boat being clean,
her antients and pendents out, and every thing
ready, their minds altering, my patron ordered us
to go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
siip with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance in-
deed: In order to this, I persuaded the Moor to get
some provisions on board, as not daring to meddle
with our patron's; who, taking my advice, we
stored ourselves with rusk biscuit, and three jars of
water; besides, I privately conveyed into the boat
a bottle of brandy, some twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a saw y in particular some bees-
wax, which was a great comfort to me, and served
to make candles. I then persuaded Muley (for so
B was
"was the Moor called) to procure some powder and
shot, pretending to kill sea curlieus, to which he
innocently and readily agreed. And in short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out,
resolving for my own part to make my escape, though
it might cost me my life.
When we had passed the castle, we fell to fishing;
but though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the
matter, in order to put farther out to sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league farther; when giving the boy
the helm, and pretending to stoop for something, I
seized Muhy by surprise, and threw him over-board.
He was an excellent swimmer, soon arose, and made
towards the boat; upon which I took out a suzee,
and presented it at him: Muley, said I, / never yet
designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
to jhore and save your life; but if you are resolved to
follow me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment
you proceed I will jhoot you through the head. The
harmless creature, at these words, turned himself
from me, and I make no doubt got safe to land.
Then turning to the boy Xury, I perceived he
trembled at the action; but I put him out of all fear,
telling him, that if he would be true and faithsul
to me, I would do well by him: And therefore, said
I, you must Jlroke your face to be faithful, and, as the
Turks have learnt you, swear by Mahomet, and the
beard of yourfather, or else I will threw you into the sea
also. So innocent did the child then look, and with
such an obliging smile, consented, that I readily be-
lieved him, and, from that day forward, began to
love him entirely.
Thus we pursued our voyage, and that they should
think me gone to the Straits mouth, I kept to the
southward to the triily Barbarian coast; but in the
dusk of the evening, I changed my course, and
steered directly S. by E. that I might keep near
the
the shore; and having a fresh gale of wind, with z
pleasant smooth sea, by three o'clock the next day
I was j 50 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. Yet still having the dreadsul apprehen-
sions of being retaken, I continued sailing for sive
days successively, till such time as the wind shifting
to the southward, made me conclude, that if.any
vessel was in chafe of me they would proceed no
farther: And after so much fatigue and thought, I .
anchored in the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what, or where; neither did I then see any people.
What I principally wanted was fresh water; and I
was resolved, about diiskish, to swim ashore. But
no sooner did the gloomy clouds of night begin to
succeed the declining day, when then it was we heard
such barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-
tures, that one might have thought the very stran-
gest monsters of nature, or infernal spirits, had their
residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead with fear,
entreated me not to go on shore that night. Sup-
pojing I dont, Xury, said I, and in the morning we
jhouldsee men, who are worse than those we sear; what
then? O den we may give dim de jhoot gun, replied
Xury, laughing, and de gun make dem ail run away.
The wit, and broken Englijh, which the boy had
learnt from the captives of our nation, pleased me
entirely, and to add to his chearsulness, I gave him a
dram of the bottle: We could get but little sleep all
the night for the terrible howlings they made; and
indeed we were both affrighted very much, when,
by the rowling of the water, and other tokens, we
justly concluded one of those monsters made towards
our boat; I could not fee it till it came within two
oars length, when, taking my suzee, I let fly at
him: Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell; but
he made towards the shore, and the noise of my gun
encreased the stupenduous noise of the monsters.
B 2 The:
The next morning, I was resolved to go on shore
to get fresh water, and venture my life among beasts
or savages, should either attack me. Xury said he
would take one of the jars and bring me some. I
asked him why he would go, and not I. The poor
boy answered, if wild mans come, they eat me, you go
away. A mind scarcely now to be imitated, so conT
trary to self-preservation, the most powersul law of
nature! This indeed encreased my affection to the
child. Well, dear Xury, said I, we will both go
ajhore, both eat wild mans, and they jhall eat neither
of us. So giving Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat,
and a dram, we waded ashore, carrying nothing with
us but our arms, and two jars for water. I did not
go out of sight of the boat, as dreading the savages
coming down the river in their canoes. But the boy
seeing a low descent, or vale, about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it; and then running back
to me with great precipitation, I thought he was
pursued by some savage or wild beast, upon which I
approached, resolving to perish or protect him from
danger. As he came nearer to .me, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and
longer legs; however, we were glad of it, for it
proved wholesome nourishing meat; but what added
to our joy was, my boy assured me there was plenty
of water, and that he see no wild mans: And greater
still was our comfort, when we found fresh water in
the creek, where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place I began to consider that the Canary
and the Cape de Verd islands lay not far off; but ha-
ving no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or
when to stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes were,
I should meet some of the Englijh trading veflels,
who would relieve and take us up.
The
The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild fort
of country, inhabited only by a few, that lies be-
tween the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes: It was filkd with wild beasts, and the
Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From this place I
thought I saw the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in
the Canaries; which made me try twice to attain it,.
but as often was I drove back, and so forced to pur-
sue my fortune along the shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high, and the tide
beginning to slow, we lay ready to go farther in:
But Xury, whose youthsul and penetrating eyes
were sharper than mine, in a soft tone, defired me to
keep far from land, lest we should be devoured: For
look yonder, Meyter, said he, and fee de dreadful mon-
Jler fajl ajleep on the fide of the hill. Accordingly,
looking where he pointed, I espied a fearsul monstez
indeed; it was a terrible great lion that lay on shore,
covered as it were by the shade of a piece of the hill.
Xury, said I, you jhall go on jhore and kill him. But
the boy looked amazed: Me kill him, fays he, he eat
me at one mouth; meaning one mouthsul. Upon
which I bid him lie still, and charging my biggest
fun with two flugs, and a good charge of powder,
took the best aim I could to shoot him through the
head; but his leg lying over his nose, the Aug broke
his knee-bone. The lion, awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most hideous
groan I ever heard: But taking my second piece, I
shot him thro' the head, and then helay struggling for
. life. Upon this Xury took heart, and defired my leave
to go on shore. Go then, said I. Upon which, taking
a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore with the
other, and coming close to the Lion, put a period
to his life, by shooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain,
the stem not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
B 3 pion,
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet, to cut off
to perform, cut osf a foot. But I bethought myself
that his skin would be of great use, which cost Xury
and I a whole day's work; when spreading it on the
top of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun so effec-
tually dried it, in two days time, that it afterwards
served me for a bed to lie upon.
And now we sailed southwardly, living sparingly
on our provisions, and went no oftener on shore than
we were obliged for fresh water. My design was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any where about
the Cape de Verd, In hopes to meet some European
ship. If Providence did not so savour, my next
course was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the Negroes. And, in a word, I put my
whole stress upon this, either that I mujt meet with
some jhip, or certainly peri/h.
But, as we were sailing along, we saw people
stand on the shore to look at us $ we could also per-
ceive they were black and stark naked. I was in-
clined to go on shore; but Xury cried, No, no;
however, I approached nearer, and I found they
run along the shore by me a good way: They had
no weapons in their hands, except one, who held a
'long stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with
which they could kill at a great distance. I talked
to them by signs, and made them sensible I wanted
something to eat: They beckoned to me to stop my
boat; while two of them run up into the country,
and in less than half an hour came back and brought
with them two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn,
which we kindly accepted ; and to prevent any fears
of either side, they brought the food to the shore, laid
it down, then went and stood a great way off, till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
.But while we were returning thanks to them, be-
ing all we could offer, two mighty creatures came

which not having strength
from
from the mountains, one as it were pursuing the
other with great sury, which we were inclined to
believe, because they seldom appear but in the night;
and both these swiftly passing by the Negroes, jumped
into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their
fierceness. At last, one of them coming nearer my
boat than I expected or defired, I shot him directly
through the head; upon which he sunk immediately,
yet rising again, would have willingly made to the
shore; but between the wound and the strangling of
the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is not possible for me to express the consterna-
tion the poor Negroes were in at the firing my gun;
much less can I mention their surprise, when they
perceived the creature to be flain by it. I made signs
to them to draw near it, and then gave them a rope
to hale it on more. It was a beautisul leopard,
which made me defire its skin; and the Negroes
seeming to covet the carcase, I very freely gave it to
them. As for the other leopaid, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of sight.
The Negroes having kindly surnished me with water
and with what roots and grain their country afforded,
I took my leave, and after eleven days fail, I came
in sight of the Cape de Verd, and those islands called
by its name. But the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds would prevent my
reaching either of them, I grew melancholy and
dejected; when, on .a sudden, Xury cried out,
Master, Majler, a jhip with a fail; and looked so
frightened, as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us: But I soon discovered she was a Por-
tugueze ship, and, as I thought, bound to the coast
of Guinea, for Negroes. Upon which I strove for
life to come up to them; but vain had it been, if,
through their perspective glasses, they had not percei-
ved me, and slwrtened their fail to let me come up.
Encouraged
Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's antient,
and sired a gun, both as signals of distress; upon
which they very kindly lay to; so that in three hours
time I came up with them. They spoke to me in
Portuguese, Spani/h, and French, but neither of these
did I understand; till at length a Scots sailor called,
and then I told him I was an Englishman, who had
escaped from the Moors of Sallee; upon which they
took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express that inconceivable joy my
heart felt at this my happy deliverance; who, from
being a miserable and forlorn creature, was not only
relieved, but in favour with the master of the ship,
whom in return for my deliverance I offered all I had
to him; God forbid, said he, that I jhoidd take any
thing from you, every thing jhall be delivered to you when
you come to Brasil: If I have saved your life, it is. no
more than I jhould expecJ to receive myself from any
other, when in the fame circumstances, 1 jhould happen
to meet the like deliverance; and jhould I take from you
what you have, and leave you at Brafil, why this
would be only taking away a life I have given; my cha-
rity teaches me better; those effecls you have will support
you there, and provide you a passage home again. And
indeed he acted with the strictest justice in what he
did, taking my things into his possession, and gi-
ving me an exact inventory, even to my earthen jars.
He bought my boat of me for the ship's use, giving
me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable' at Bra-
sil, and if any body offered more he would make it
up. He also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury.
It was With great reluctance I was prevailed upon to
fell the child's liberty, who had served me so faith-
sully; but the boy himself was willing, and it was
agreed, that after ten years, he should be made free,
upon his renouncing Mahometanism and embracing
Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brajils, we ar-
rived
rived in the' Bay dt Todos los Santos, or All-Saints Bay,
in about 22 days after. And here I cannot forget
the generous treatment of the captain; he would
take nothing for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for
the leopard's skin, and 30 for the lion's: Every thing
he caused to be delivered; and what I would sell he
bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of my
cargo, and with this stock I entered once more, as I
may fay, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as I was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and seeing
how well they lived, and how suddenly they grew
rich, I was filled with an emulation, at least, to settle
among them, resolving to get my money remitted to
me, and to purchase me a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lijbon, of Englijh
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we im-
proved it very amicable together: Both our stocks
were low, and for two years we planted only for
food: But the third year we planted some tobacco,
preparing each a large piece of ground for planting
canes the.ensuing year; but now wanting assistance,
I repented the loss of my dear boy Xury.
Here having none to assist me, my father's words
came again into my mind; and if only a middle sta-
tion of life I fought, why could it not as well be
obtained in England as here? When I pondered of
this with regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance
forsook me; I ;had none to converse with but my
neighbour; no work to be done but by my own
hands; and this often made me fay, my condition
was like that of a man cast upon a desolate island.
So unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetsul
what good things we receive ourselves, and so un-
thanksul for our deliverance from those calamities
that others endure.
I was
I was in some measure settled before the captain
who took me up departed from the Brajils. One day
I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in obtaining its remit-
tance. To which the good gentleman readily con-
sented, but would only have me send for half my
money, lest it should miscarry; which if it did, the
remainder might support me: And so taking letters
of procuration from me, bid me trouble myself no
farther about it.
And indeed wondersul was his kindness towards
me; for he not only procured the money I had drawn
for upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a
servant, with a cargo proportionable to my condi- .
tion. He also sent me over tools of all forts, iron-
Work, and utenfils necessary for my plantation, and
which proved of the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might'
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther had so often recommended; yet nothing would
Content me, such was my evil genius, but I must
leave this happy station, for a foolish ambition in
rising greater than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus, once more, I cast myself into the deepest
gulf of misery that ever abandoned creature fell
into. For having lived four years in Brajll, I not
only learnt the language, but contracted acquaint-
ance with the most eminent planters, and even the
merchants of St. Salvadore; to whom, by way of
discourse, giving an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, and the manner of trading there
for mere trifles, by which we might surnish our
plantations with Negroes, they gave such attention
to what I said, that three of them came one morn-
ing to me, and told me they had a secret proposal to
make. After enjoining me to secresy (it being an
infringement on the powers of the.kings of Portugal
and Spain) they told me they had a mind to fit out a
fl;ip to go Guinea, in order to stock the plantation
with Negroes, which, as they could not be publicly
sold, they would divide among them; and if I would
go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the tra-
ding part, I should have an equal (hare of the Ne-
groes, without providing any stock. The thing in-
deed was fair enough, had I been in another condi-
tion; but I, born to be my own destroyer, could
not resist the proposal; but accepted the offer, upon
condition of their looking after my plantation: So,
making a formal will, I bequeathed my effects to my
good friend the captain, as my universal heir; but
obliged him to dispose of my effects as directed, one
half of my produce to himself, and the other to be
shipped for England.
The ship being fitted out, and all things ready,
we set sail the first of September, 1659, being the
same day eight years I left my father and mother in
Tori/hire. We sailed northward upon the coast,
in order to gain Africa, till we made Cape Auguftine,
from whence going surther in the ocean, out of sight
of land, we steered as though we were bound for the
isle of Fernand de Norenba, leaving the islands on the
east; and then it was we met with a cruel tempest,
which held us for twelve days successively; so that
the waters carried us wheresoever they pleased. In
this perplexity one of our men died, and one man and
the boy were washed over-board. When the weather
cleared up a little, we found ourselves eleven degrees
north latitude upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this
the captain gave reasons for returning, which I
opposed, counselling him to stand away for Barbadoes,
which as I supposed might be attained in 15 days.
So altering our course, we sailed north-west and by
west, in order to reach the Leeward islands; but a
second storm succeeding, drove us to the westward,
so that we were justly afraid of falling into the hands
of cruel Savages, or the paws of devouring beasts of
Pre7.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the
morning, cried out, Land, Lands when no sooner
looking out, but our ship struck upon a sand, and in
a moment the sea broke over in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately.
We knew nothing where we were, or upon what
land we were driven; whether an island or the main;
inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not so
much as hope that the ship would hold many mi-
nutes, without breaking in pieces, except the wind,
by a miracle, should turn about immediately. While
we stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate laid hold of the boat, and,
with the help of the rest, got her flung over the
ship's side, and getting all into her, being eleven of
us, committed ourselves to God's mercy, and the
wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort would
not be a susficient protection from death; so high did
the sea run, that it was impossible the boat should *
live. As to making fail, we had none; neither,
if we had, could we make use of any. So that when
we had rowed, or rather were driven about a league
and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty mountain,
came rowling astern of us, and took us with such
fury, that at once it overset the boat. 'Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to
call upon the tremendous name of God; much less
to implore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy,
to receive our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over-
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadsul appre-
hensions imaginable; for the joys of heaven, and
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even in the small space
of time, as it were, between life and death. I was
goings
going, I thought, I knew not whither, in a dismal
gulf unknown, and as yet unpsrceived, never to be-
hold my friends, nor the light of this world any
more! Gould I even have ^hou ;ht annihilation, or
a total dissolution of soul as well as body, the gloomy
thoughts of having no surther being, no knowledge
of what we hoped for, but an eternal quietus, with-
out life or fense; even that, I fay, would have been
enough to strike me with horror and consusion! But
striving to the last extremity, while I thought all my
.companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep, it was with great difficulty I kept my breath
till the wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had taken in.
However, I got on my feet as soft as I could, lest
another wave should pursue, and carry me back
again; but for all the haste I made, I could not
avoid it; for the sea came after me like a high
mountain, or surious enemy, so that my business was
to hold my breath, and by raising .myself on the
water, preserve it by swimming; the next dreadsul
wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep,
but at the same time carried me with a mighty force
and swiftness .towards the shore; when raising my-
self, I held out as well as possible, 'till at length the
water having spent itself, began to return, at which
I struck forward, and feeling ground with my feet,
I took to my heels again; thus being served twice
more, I was at last dashed against a piece of a rock,
in such a manner as left me senseless; but recovering
a little before the return of the waves, which, no
doubt, then would have overwhelmed me, I held
fast by the rock till those succeeding waves abated;
and then, fetching another run, was overtook by a .
small wave, which was soon conquered; but before
any more could overtake me, I reached the main
land, where clambering up the clifts of the shore,
tired and almost spent, I sat down on the grass, free
from the dangers of the foaming ocean.
C No
Ttfo tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my ibul felt at this happy deliverance, it was
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter
about. his neck, and ready to be turned off. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
hands, with the profoundest humility, to the divine
Powers, for saving my, life, when the rest of my
companions were all drowned. And now I began
to cast my eyes around, to behold what place I was
in, and what I had nepct to do. I could fee no
house, nor people: I was wet, yet had no clothes to
shift me; hungry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or
drink; no weapon to destroy any creature for my
sustenance, nor defend myself against devouring
beasts: In short, I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a box half silled with tobacco. The dark-
some night Coming upon me, increased my fears of
being devoured by wild creatures; my mind was
plunged in despair; and, having no prospect, as I
thought, of life before me, prepared for' another
kind of death than what I had lately escaped. I
walked about a surlong to see if I could sind any fresh
water, which I did to my great joy, and taking a
quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got up into a
thick bushy tree, and seating myself so that I could
not fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for that night
buried my sorrows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awa-
ked; when not only I perceived the tempest was
ceased, but the ship was driven almost as far as the
rock beforementioned, where the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat
two miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore,
as the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her, but there being an inlet of water of about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for my
more immediate subsistance. About noon, when the
sea was calm, that I could come within a quarter of
a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived that if
we had kept on board, all our lives had been saved.
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears front
my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the snip, I ftript, and leapt into the water; when
swimming round her, I was afraid I should not get
any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good for-
tune to espy a small piece of rope hang down by the
. fore-chains so low, that with great difficulty, by the
help of it, I got into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold; her stern was lifted
up against a bank, and her head almost in the wa-
ter: All her quarter, and what was there, were free
and dry. The provisions I found in good order,
with which I crammed my pockets; and, losing no
time, eat while I was doing other things; I also
found some rum, of which I took a hearty dram;
and now I wanted for nothing except a boat, which
indeed was all, to carry away what was needsul for
me.
Necessity occasions quickness os' thought. We .
had several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and
two or three large spars of wood: With these I fell
to v..ork, and flung as many of them overboard as I
ccjuld manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side, and tied four of them fast to-
gether at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any consi-
derable weight. Upon which I went to work again,
cutting a spare topmast into three lengths, adding
them'^to my raft with a great deal of labour ana
pains. I then considered what I should load it with,
C 2 it
it being not able to.bear a ponderous burden. And
this I soon thought of, first laying upon it all "the
pknks and boards I could get; next I lowered down
three of the seamens chests, after I had filled them
with bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces
of dried goat's flesh, and some European corn, what
little the rats had spared; but for the liquors,
I found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper. In which were some cordial waters, and
four or five gallons of rack, which I stowed by them-
selves. By this time the tide beginning to flow, I
perceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt, swim away,
which I had left on the shore; as for my linen
breeches and stockings, I swam with them on to
I ship: But I soon found clothes enough, yet took
no more than I wanted for the present. My eyes
were chiefly on tools to work with; and after
. long search I found out the carpenter's chest,
/ which I got safe down on my raft: Then I looked
\ for arms and ammunition, and,' in the great cabin,
? found two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, several
powder-horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two
rusty old swords. I also found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third had
i taken water; with two or three broken oars, two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, I put to sea; and in
getting to shore, I had three encouragements; 1. A
smooth calm sea. 2. The tide rising and setting in
to the shore. 3. The little wind there was blew to-
wards Jand. But after I had sailed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little distance from the place .
. wh»fe I first landed; and then I perceived a little
opening of the land, with a strong current of the tide
running into it, upon which I kept in the middle of
the stream: But great was my concern, when on a
sudden the fore-part of my raft run aground 5 so that
had I not with great disficulty, for near half an hour,
kept
.. .
kept my back straining against the chests, to keep my
effects in their places, all I had would have gone
into the sea. Btit aster some time, the rising of the
water caused the raft to float again, when coming up
a little river, with land on both Tides, I landed in a *-
little cove, as near the mouth as possible, the Better
to discover a sail, if any such providentially passed
by that way.
Not far off, I spied a hill of a stupendous heighth, .
surrounded with lesser hills about it: and (jhither I
was resolved to go and view the country, that I
might see what part was the best place to six my
habitation in: Accordingly, arming myself. with a
pistol, a fowling-piece, powder, and ball, I ascend- v
ed the mountain: There I perceived I was in an * i
island encompassed by the sea; no distant lands to be
seen, but scattering rocks that lay to the west; that
it seemed a barren place, and, as I thought, inha-'
bited only by wild beasts. I perceived abundance of
fowls, but ignorant of what kind, or whether good
for nourishment; I shot one of them at my return,
which occasioned a consused screaming among the
other birds; and I found it, by its colour and beak,
to be a kind of hawk, but its flesh was perfect
carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
shore, which work spent that day entirely; and
fearing that some cruel beasts might devour me in the
night while I slept, I made a kind of a hut or bar-
ricade with the chests and boards I brought from
shore. That night I slept very comfortably, and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to make a
further attempt on the ship, and bring away what
necessaries I could find, before another storm should
break her to-pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a second raft, far more nice
than the first; upon which I brought away the car-
penter's stores, two or three bags sull of nails, a
C 3 great
great jack screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and
a grindstone. I also took away several things' that
belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows, two barrels of musket-bullets, another
fowling-piece, a small quantity of powder, and a
1 large bag sull of small shot. Besides these, I took
[ all the mens clothes I could findJ a spare fore-top
sail, hammock, and some beddingl; and thus com-
pleting my second cargo, I made all the haste to
shore I could, fearing some wild beast might destroy
what I had there already. But I only found a little
wild cat sitting on one of the chests, who not seem-
ing to fear me, or the gun that I presented to her, I
threw her a piece of biscuit, which she instantly eat,
and departed.
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I went
to work, in order to make me a little tent with the
sail and some poles which I had cut for that purpose;
and having finished it, what things might be damaged
by the weather, I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it
against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards, and
an empty chest turned the long way without. I
then charged my gun and pistol: and laying my
bed on the ground, slept as comfortably, till next
morning, as tho' I had been in a Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet, despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provision might be spent be-
fore such a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could: And so long as the ship remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one necessary or other;
particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage; some
twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a bar-
rel of meal, three casks of rum; and what indeed
was most welcome .to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.
'. The
. The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a haulser whole, with a great deal of iron-
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
sprit-fail yards, but this being so unweildy, by the
too heavy burden I had upon it, and not being able
dextrously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and I were overturned. For my part, all the da-
mage I sustained was a wet skin; and at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got most of the ca-
bles, and some pieces of iron. . .
Thirteen days had I now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; though, I believe, had the weather been
calm, I should have brought away the whole ship,
piece by piece. As I was going the twelfth time,
the wind began to rife, however, I ventured at low
water, and rummaging the cabin effectually, in a
locker I found several razors, seissers, and some
dozens of knives and forks; and in another thirty-
six pounds in pieces of eight, filver, and gold. Ah!
simple vanity.. said I, whom this world so much doats
on, where is now thy virtue, thy excellency to me? You
cannot procure me .one thing needful, nor remove me from
this desolate ijland to a place of plenty: One os these
knives, so meanly ejteemed, is to me more preferable than
all this heap. E'en therefore remain where thou art, . to
sink in the deep, as unregarded, even as a creature whose
life is not worth preserving. Yet after all this excla-
mation, I wrapt it up in a piece of canvas, and be-
gan to think of making another raft; but soon I
perceived the wind began to rife, a fresh gale blow-
ing from the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds
and darkness. So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let
myself into the water with what things I had about
me, and it was with much disficulty I got ashore,
when soon after it blew a fearsul storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tent, surrounded with all my effects 3 but when I
. . . looked
looked out in the morning, no more ship was to be
seen. This much surprized me for the present, yet
when I considered I had lolt no time, abated no pains,
and had got every thing usesul out of her, I com-
forted myself in the belt manner, and entirely sub-
mitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if
any such were in the island. At one time I thought
of digging a cave; at another, I was for erecting
a tent; and, in short, I resolved to do both: The
manner or form of which will not, I hope, be un-
pleasing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was; that
it was moorish, and had no fresh water near it; my
resolutions were to search for a soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men and
beasts of prey, as more eafily to discover any distant
sail, should it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my de-
sire, I found a little plain near a rising hill, the
front towards which being as steep as a house-side
nothing could descend on me from the top. On the
side of this rock was a little hollow place, resem-
bling the entrance or door of a cave. Just before
this place, on the circle of the green, I resolved my
tent should stand. This plain did not much ex-
ceed 100 yards broad, and about twice as long, like
a delightsul green before my door, with a pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. N. W. side
of the hill, so that it was sheltered from the exces-
sive heat of the sun. After this I drew a semi-
circle, containing ten yards in its semi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two
lows of strong stakes, not six inches from each
other.
ether. Then with the pieces of cable which I had
cut on board, I regularly laid them in the circle be-
tween the piles up to their tops, which were more
than five feet out of the earth, and after drove an-
other row of piles looking within-side against them,
between two or three feet high, which made me
conclude it a little impregnable cattle, from men and
. beasts: And for my better security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help of a
ladder, which I also made.
Here was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches, ammunition and stores. Af-
ter which, working on the rock, what with the dirt
and stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground
two feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-
house; and this cost me many days labour and pains.
But one day in particular a shower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning ensued, which put me in ter-
ror, lest my powder Thouid take fire, and not only
hinder my necessary subsistance from killing me food,
but even blow up me and my habitation: To pre-
vent which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in or-
der to separate it, having by me near 150 weight.
And thus being established as king of the island,
every day I went out with my gun to fee what I could
kill that was fit to eat. I soon perceived numbers
pf goats, but very shy: Yet having watched them
narrowly, and seeing I could better shoot off the
rocks than when in the low grounds, l one day hap-
pened to shoot a she-goat suckling a young kid; who
not thinking its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the young
one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted the
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it
alive; but finding it couid not be brought to eat, I
was forced to flay it also for my own subsistance.
. Thus entered into a strange scene of life, as ever
any man was in, I had most melancholy apprehen-
,„' sions
when I considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human-kind. And while some
desponding cogitations would seem to make me ac-
cuse Providence, other good thoughts would interpose
jind reprove, after this manner: Well, supposing
you are desolate, is it not better to be so, than to-
tally perish? Why were you singled out to be saved,
and the rest destroyed? Why mould you complain,.
when not only your life is preserved, but the ship
driven even into your reach, in order to Sake what
was necessary out of her for your subsistance? But to
proceed. It was, by the account I kept, the 30th of
September, when I first landed on this island: About
twelve dajs^fter, fearing I should lose, my reckon -
mg~oFtime, nay even forget the Sabbath-days, for
; want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved it with a
knife upon a large post, in great letters, and setting
'it up, in the similitude of a cross, on the^ea-shore.
where I landed, viz. I came on jhore, Sept. 30, 1659.
Every day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides
of this square post, and that on Sabbath was as long
\ again as the rest; and every day of the month as
long again as that long one: In this manner I kept
I my kalendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckon-
ing of time. But had I made a more strict search-
es I did afterwards) I need not have set up this
mark: For among the parcels belonging to the gun-
ner, carpenter, and captain's mate, those very things
I wanted I found, particularly pens, ink, and paper;
also two or three compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, prospective, books of navigation,
three Englijh Bibles, and several other good books,
which I caresully put up. But here I cannot but
call to mind our having a dog and two cats onboard,
whom I imade inhabitants with me in my castle.
But though one might think I had all the necessaries
. . as
as were desirable, yet still I found several things want-
ing. My ink was daily wasting; 1 wanted needles,
pins, and thread, to mend or keep my clothes to-.
gether; particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth: It was a year before 1 finished
my little bulwark; and having some intervals of re-
laxation, after my daily wandering abroad for pro-
viiion, 1 drew up this plan alternately, as creditor
and debtor, to remind me of the miseries and blessings
of my life, under so many various circumstances.
? V I L.
/ am cajt upon a desolate
ijland, having no hjpes, no
prospect os a welcome deli-
verance.
Thus miserably am Isin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company os all mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
jhould I say, a lovely an-
chorite) am I forced from
human conversation".
My clothes, after some
time, will be worn out;
and then I jhall have none
to cover me.
IVhen my ammunition is
wafted, then jhall I remain
without any defence againjt
wild men and beajts.
I have no creature, no
foul to speak to; none to
beg assistance from. Some
comfort would it be to re-
sound my woes where I am
underjtood;
GOOD.
But yet I am preserved,
while my companions arepe-
rijhed in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to bespared
from death! and he who
has so preserved me can de-
liver me from this condition
Hoivever I have food to
eat, and even a happy pros-
specl of subsijlance whilst
Use endures.
At present I enjoy what
is absolute needful; and the
climate is so hot, that, had I
ever so many, I jhould hard-
ly wear them.
Yet is it does, Ifee no dan-
ger of any to hurt me, as in
Africk : And what if I had
been cast away on that coajt?
Is there not God to con-
verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee? Already has
he afforded thee sujtenance;
and
tfnderftood; and beg "asjijl- and put it in thy power to
ence, where I might hope provide for tinsels till lx
for relief. sends thee a deliverance.
And now easing my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.
I must here add, to the description 1 have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, 1 thatched it so close, as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather. I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
sage and door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study those
mechanical arts that seemed to me practicable: For
when 1 wanted a plank or board, 1 .hewed down a
tree with my hatchet, making it as thin with my
axe as possible, and then smooth enough with my
adze to answer my designs; yet this way could I
make no more than one board out of a tree: But in
length of time, I got boards enough to shelter all
my stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of the
rock. All this made it a very pleasant sight to me,
being the result of vast labour and diligence; which
leaving for a while, and me to the enjoyment of, I
shall give the reader an account of my Journal from
the day of my landing, till the sixing and settling of
my habitation, as heretofore shewn.
JOURNAL. i
September 30, 1^59. 1 unhappy Robinson Crusoe,
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this deso-
late island, which i named the Desolate Island of De-
spair, the rest being swallowed up in the tempes-
tuous ocean. The next day 1 spent in consideration
of my unhappy circumstances, having no prospect,
but os death, either to be starved with hunger, or
devoured by beasts or merciless savages.
OSiob. i. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had,
that when the storm was abated, I might be.able to
get some food and necessaries out of her; which I
conceived were not damaged, because the ship did
stand upright. At this time I lamented the loss of
my companions, .and our misfortune in leaving the
vessel. When I perceived the ship, as it were, lie
dry, I waded through the sands, then swam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, and with scarcely any
wind. . /
To the 24th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages, every tide getting what
I could out of the ship. The weather very wet and
uncertain. . - .
Otfob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon,
were overset; yet I recovered most again at low
water.
Oftob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship dissolved in pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low water.
This day 1 secured my goods from the inclemency
of the weather.
Ottob. 26. I wandered to fee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. I sixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half-moon, intending
to erect a wall, fortified with piles, lined within
with pieces of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov. 1. I erected my tent under a rock; and took
up my lodging very contentedly in a hammock that
night.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber,
chests, and boards.
Nov. 3. 1 shot two wild fowl, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat; and in the afternoon made
me a table.
D "Nov.
. Nov. 4. I began to live regularly: In the morn-
ing, i allowed myself two cr tltree hours to walk out
with my gun; then work till near 11 o'clock: and
after refresh myself with what I had to eat. From
12 to 2 I would lie down to sleep. Extreme sultry
weather: in the evening go to work again.
.Nov. 5. Went out w ith my gun and ioz, shot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good far
nothing. The skins of those I killed 1 preserved.
In my return I perceived many wild birds, and was
terrified by some seals, which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the I2th,
'but emitted the nth, which, according to my cal-
culation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which however much
cooled the earth, when thunder and lightning cau-
sed in me a terrible surprize. The weather clearing,
in separate parcels I secured my powder.
Nov. 1^ to 16. I made little boxes for my pow-
der, lodging them in several places. I also shot a
large fowl, which proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and wheel-
barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the place of the
sirst, but with all my artcouldnot make a wheelbarrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, re-
sembling what the Brasilians call an iron tree. I had
like to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very
hard and exceeding heavy; yet with much labour
and industry I made a sort of a spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business, eighteen days I allowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve me not only for a
warehouse, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I
commonly lay in the tent unless the' weather was
rainy that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at
certain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within
die pale with long poles in the form of rafters lean-
ing against the rock, and load them with flags and'
large leaves of trees resembling a thatch..
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fi-
nished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,.
so that."it was a mercy I was not burred in the ruins_
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me, before 1 could make it firm and durable.
Dec. if. I nailed up some shelves, and drove nails
and staples in the wall and posts to hang things ouf
of the way. *
Dec. 20. Every" thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance..
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec. 27s I chanced to light on some goats, shot"
orte, wounded another; I Ted'it.home in a string,
bound up his leg, and cured it in a little time; at
length it became so tame and familiar, as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put.me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food aster my ammunition was
spent. .
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being cxceslive hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep.
within doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry. However, obliged by ne-
cessity, I went out with my gun, and found a great
store of goats in the vallies ; they were exceeding
shy, nor could my dog hunt them down.
"Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time was to
finish the wall before described, and search the island.
I discovered a kind of pigeons like our house pi-
geons, in a nest among the rocks: I brought them .
home, nurs'd them till they could fly, and then they
left me. After this I shot some which proved ex-
cellent food. Some time I spent vainly in contriving
to make a cask; I may well say it was vain, because
D 2 I could
I could neither join the staves, or six the heads, so
as to make it tight. Then taking some goat's tallow
I had by me, and a little ekum for the wick, I pro-
vided myself with a lamp, which served me instead
of candles.
But now a very strange event happened: For being
in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag, which was used to hold corn
(as I supposed) for the fowls: So immediately re-
solving to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the husks
and dirt upon one side of the rock, little suspecting
what the consequence would be. The rain had
fallen plentisully a few days before; and about a
month after, to my great amazement, something be-
gan to spout out very green and flourishing: And when
I came to view it more nicely, every day," as.it grew,
I found about 10 or 12 ears of gree' barley appeared
in the very fame shape and make as that in England.
\ can scarce express the agitations of my mind at
this sight. Hitherto I had" lopked upon the actions
of this life, no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune: But now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren sojl to the sort
of grain, and my ignorance in not conceiving how it
should come there, made me conclude that miracles
.were not yet ceased: Nay, I even thought that God
had appointed it to grow there without any seed, pure-
ly for my sustenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And indeed such great effect had this upon me,
that it often made me melt into tears, thro' a gratesul
sense of God's mercies; and the greater still was my
thanksulness, when I perceived about this little field
of barley some rice stalks, wondersully flourishing in
proportion to the crop within.
While I was thus wondersully pleased in mind, I
concluded there must be more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly among
the rocks, but could not find any; when upon a
sudden
sudden it came into my mind, how I had shaken the
husks of eorn out of the bag, and then my admiration
ceased, with my gratitude to the Divine Being, as
thinking it was but natural, and not to be conceived
a miracle; though even the manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wondersul
event of God's kind Providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this corn ripened, which I laid up very caresully,
together with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one
day I should reap the fruit of my labour; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myself to eat
any barley bread, and much longer time before I had
any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and
industry for three or four months, at last 1 "finished.
my wall on the 14th of April, having no way to go
into it, but by a ladder againfl; the wall.
April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
after pulled it up, then let it down on the other side,
and descended into my. new habitation, where I had
space enough, and so fortified that nothing could at-
tack me without scaling the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry avail,
if the blessings of God do not crown our labours?
Or, who can stand before the Almighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm : For one time, as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened such a
dreadsul earthquake, that not only the roof of the
cave came crumbling about my ears, but the posts
seemed to crack terribly at the same time. This made
me, in great amazement, run to my ladder and get
over the wail: When there I plainly knew it was an
earthquake., the place 1 stood on sustaining three
terrible shocks in less than three minutes. And when
I saw the top of a great rock rowl into the sea, then
I expected the island would be swallowed up every
moment: And dreadsul it was to fee the sea thrown
D 3 . intQ
into the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous accident.
For my part, I stood like a criminal, at the place
of execution, ready to expire. At the moving of the
earth, I was, as it were, fea-sick; and very much
afraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and
habitation should overwhelm me and it in a lasting
tomb.
When the third dreadsul shock had spent itself,
my spirits began to revive; yet still I would not
venture to ascend the ladder, but continued sitting,
not knowing what I should do. So little grace then
I had, only to say, Lard, have mercy upon me! and
no sooner was the earthquake over, but that pathetic
prayer left me.
It was not long after when a horrible tempest
arose, at the same time attended with a hurricane of
wind. The sea seemed mountains high, and the
waves rolled so impetuously, that nothing could be
perceived but froth and foam. Three hours did this
ilorm continue, and in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain. When this was over I went
to my tent, but the rain coming again upon me in a
surious manner, obliged me to take shelter in the
cave; and then I was forced to cut a channel thro'
my fortification to let the water out. It Continued
raining all that night, and some time the next day:
Yet no sooner did the weather clear. up, but I resol-
ved to build me a little hut in some open place, wall'd
round, to defend me from wild creatures and savages,
as not thinking but at the next earthquake the moun-
tain would fall upon my habitation and me, and
swallow up all in its bowels.
April i g, 20. These days I spent in contriving how
and in what manner I should six my place of abode:
All this while I was under the most dreadsul ap-
prehensions. When I looked round my habitation,-
(Svery
every thing 1 found in its proper place. I had several
resolutions whether I should move or not. At
length I resolved to stay where I was till 1 had sound
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
Apr. 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopt for want of tools and instru-
ments to work with. Most of my axefe and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a sull week
to make my grindstone of use to me, and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
the help of a wheel' and a string. 1
Apr. 28, 29. These days were spent in grinding
my tools.
Apr. 30. My bread falling stiort, I allowed my-
self but one biscuit a-day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
those, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn off,
and washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay
in the sands, This, I supposed, was occasioned by
. the earthquake. Now I resolved to keep my old
place of abode; and also to go to the Ihip that day,
but found it impossible.
May 3. I went on board, and with my saw saw'd
osf one of the beams which kept her quarter-deck;
then I cleared the sand till flood.
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The same day I also catched a young
dolphin.
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck,
and saw'd another piece of timber: and when the
flood came, I made a float of three great planks,
which was driven ashore by the tide.
May 6, 7, 8, 9. These days I brought oft* the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow> and car-
ried
ried two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.
May io, ii, 12, 13, 14. All this time I spent in
bringing osf great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on purpose
to cut off some lead off the roll, but all in vain, for
it lay too low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day,
for employing myself in looking for pigeons, I out-
ftay'd my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck
blown ashore, which I found belonged to the head of
the ship.
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck,
and with great difficulty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first flowing tide
several casks floated out, and many of the feamens
chests; yet that day nothing came to land, but pie-
ces of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brafil
pork in it. I continued working to the 15 th of
June (except necessary times for food and rest) and
had I known how to have built a boat, I had timber
and planks enough: I had also near 100 weight of
sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the sea-
side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the
first I had seen on the island, though, as I after-
wards found, there were many on the other side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most sa-
voury and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain; and it. was something more chilly
and cold than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and shivering.
June
"June 20. Awake all night, my head rack'd with
pain, and feverish.
June 2i. Sick unto death, and terrified with the
dismal apprehensions of my condition: Pray'd to
God frequently, but very consusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my
mind.
June 23. Again relapsed, much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
out, shot a she-goat, brought it home, and broiled
fome of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an ague;
tl.. rsty, yet could not help myself to water: Pray'd
to God in these words: Lord, in pity look upon me,
Lord, have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me! After
this I fell asleep, which I found had much refreshed
me when I awaked. I fell asleep a second time, and
fell into this strange and terrible fort of dream.
Methought I was sitting on the fame spot of
ground, at the outside of the wall, where I sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I saw
a man descending from a great black cloud, and
light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as
a flash of fire, that a little before surrounded him;
his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth,
as it were, trembled when he stept upon the ground,
and flashes of fire seemed to fill all the air. No sooner
I thought him landed upon the earth, but with a
long spear or other weapon he made towards me;
but first ascending a rising ground, his voice added to
my amazement, when I thought I heard him pro-
nounce these dreadsul word3, Unhappy wretch! seeing
all these things have 'not brought thee to repentance, thou
Jhalt immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadsul
sentence, I thought he went to kill me with the
spear that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to express
the horrors of my mind at this vision; and even when
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impression
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had
I received from my father's instructions, and that was
worn out by an interrupted series of seafaring impiety
for eight years space, except what sickness forced
from me; I don't remember I had one thought of.
lifting up my heart towards God; but rather had a
certain stupidity of soul, not having the least fense of
fear of the omnipotent Being when in distress, nor
of gratitude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when
I was on the desperate expedition on the desart Afri-
can shore, I can't remember I had one thought of
what would become of me, or beg his consolation
and assistance in my sufferings and distress. When
the Portugal captain took me up, and honourably used
me; nay, farther, when I was even delivered from
drowning by escaping to this island, I never looked
upon it as a judgment, but only said I was an un-
fortunate dog, and that's all. Indeed some secret
transports of soul I had, which was not thro' grace,
but only a common flight of joy, that I was yet
alive, when my companions were all drown'd : And
no other joy could I conceive but what is common
with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they
have escaped. the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor
conveniences, might have called upon me for a
thanksul acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed the
growth of my corn touched me with some fense, but
that soon wore off again: The terrible earthquake
pointed to me as it were the singer of God, but my
dreadsul amazement continued no longer than its
duration. But now, when my spirits began to sink
under
under the burden of a strong distemper, and I could
leisurely view the miseries of death present itself
before my eyes; then my awakened conscience be-
gan to reproach me with my past life, in which I had
so wickedly provoked the justice of God to pour
down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered,
which only proceeded srom my fear of death. But
.when I considered my father's advice and prophecy,
I could not forbear weeping: For he told me, That
if I did perfi/l in my folly, I jhould not only be deprived
of God's blejjing, but have time enough to refle£t upon
my despising his injlruflions; and this in a wretched
time, when none could help me. And now concluding
it to be sulfilled, having no foul in the island to ad-
minister any comfort to me, I prayed, however, ear-
nestly, to the Lord, that he would help me in this my
great calamity. And this, I think, was the first time
1 prayed in sincerity for many years. But now I
must return to my Journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with sleep, and the
fit quite off, Igot up. My dream still occasioned in
me a great consternation; and fearing that the ague
might return the succeeding day, I concluded it a
time to get something to comfort me. I filled a case
bottle with water, and set it within the reach of my
bed; and to make it more nourishing and less chilly,
I put some rum into it, The next I did was to boil
me. a.piece of goat's .flesh, of which I eat but little.
I was very weak, however walked about, dreading
the return of my distemper; and at night I supp'd on
three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted and eat,
begging God's blessing therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of
doors with my gun; but so weak, that 1 fat down
and looked at the sea, which was smooth and calm:
While
While I continued here, these thoughts came inta
my mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence
came myself, and all other creatures living, and of
what are we made? _
Our beings were assuredly created by some Al-
mighty invisible Power, who framed the earth, the
sea, and air, and all therein. But what is that
. Power? .
Certainly it must follow, that God has created it
all. Yet, said I, if God has made all this, he must
be the ruler of them all, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes must indis-
putably have a power to guide and direct them. And
if this be so (as certainly it must) nothing can hap-
pen without his knowledge or appointment. Then
surely, if nothing happens without God's appoint-
ment, certainly God has appointed these my suf-
ferings to befal me. And here I sixed my firm be-
lief that it was'his will that it mould be so; and then
proceeded to inquire, why should God deal with me
in this manner? Or what had I done thus*to deserve
his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me
as a blasphemer; crying with a loud and piercing
voice, Unworthy wretch! dare you ajk ivhat you have
done? Look upon your pajl life, and see what you have
left undone. Ask thyself, why thou wert not long .
ago in the merciless hands of death? Why not
drowned in Yarmouth roads, or killed in the fight
when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war?
Why not entombed in the bowels of wjld beasts on
the African coast, or drowned here when all thy
companions suffered shipwreck.
Struck dumb with" these reflections, I rose up in a
pensive manner, being so thoughtsul that I could not
go to sleep: And scaring the dreadsul return of my
. . distemper
distemper, it caused me to remember that the Bra-
filians use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went
to my chest, in order to find some, where heaven no
doubt directed me to a cure for both soul and.body;
for there I found one of the Bibles, which till this
time I had neither leisure nor inclination to look
into: I took both the tobacco and that out of the
chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First I took a
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupified me. Next I steeped it in
some rum an hour or two, resolving when 1 went to
bed to take a doze of it; and in the third place, I
burnt some over a pan of fire, holding my nose over
it so long as I could endure the least heat without
suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
.was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco, I took up
the Bible to read: No sooner did I open it, but
there appeared to me these words, Call on me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou /halt glorify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but soon wore off again, when I con-
sidered the word deliver was foreign to me. And as
the children of Israel said, when they were promised
flesh to eat; Can God spread a table in the wilderness?
In like manner I began to say, Can God himself
deliver me from this desolate island I However, the
words would still return to my mind, and after made
'a greater impression upon me. As it now was very
late," and the tobacco had dozed my head, 1 was in-
clined to sleep; but before I would lie down, I fell
on my knees, and implored the promise that God
had made to me in the Holy Scriptures, that if I called
upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me,
With much difficulty I after drank the rum, where-
in I had steeped the tobacco; which flying in my
head very violently, threw me into such a profound
E . sleep,
sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather, I believe, I slept two days, ha-
ving certainly lost a day in my own account, and I
could never tell any other way. When I got up,
my spirits were lively and chearsul; my stomach
much better, being very hungry; and, in short, no
fit returned the next day, which was the 29th, but
much altered for the better.
The 30th, I went abroad with my gun, but not
far, and kill'd a sea fowl or two, resembling a brand-
goose, which yet I cared not to eat when I brought
them home, but dined. on two more of the turtle's
eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, ex-
cept not taking that quantity, neither did I chew of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoak, yet the
next day I had a little spice of the cold fit, which
was on the 1st of July.
July 2. I took my medicines as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often thought of these words, I will
deliver thee; and while at some times I would think
of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would re-
prehend me for disregarding the deliverances I had
received, even in the most forlprn, and distressed
condition. What regard had I to God's abundant
mercies? Had I done my part? He had delivered me,
but I had not glorified him; as much as to fay, I had
not own'd and been thanksul for that as a deliver-
ance, and how could I expect a greater? So much
did this sensibly touch my heart, that I gave God
thanks for my recovery from sickness in the most
humble prostration.
July .4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Tejlament, resolving to
read a chapter every morning and night, as long as
my thoughts would engage me : But when soon after
I set about this work seriously, I found my heart
deeply affected with the impiety of my past life:
i These
These words that I thought were spoken to me in my
dream revived, AU these things have not brought thee
to repentance: After this, I begged of God to assist
me with his holy spirit in returning to my duty,
when perusing the scriptures one day, I came to
these words, He has exalted a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance, and to give remission: Immediately
I laid down the book, and with up-lifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried, O bkjfed Jesus, thou Son of
David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Savioicr, give
me repentance! And now indeed I prayed with a true
fense of my condition, and a more certain hope
founded on the word of God: Now I had a different
sense of these words, Call on me, and I will deliver
you; that is, from the dreadsul load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinsul foul; and not from a solitary life,
which might rather be called a blessing (seeingI want-
ed neither food nor raiment) than living among the
race of human-kind, surrounded with so much op-
pression, misery and asfliction: And, in a word, I
came to this conclusion, That a deliverance from
sin, was a much greater blessing than a deliverance
from affliction. But again 1 proceed to my journal.
To the 24th of July, I walk'd about with my gun,
a little and a little at a time, having been reduced to
the greatest extremity of weakness. The applica-
tion and experiment I used were perfectly new; nei-
ther could I recommend it to any one's practice.
For though it carried off the fit, it very much
weakened me^ and I had frequently convulsions in
my nerves and limbs. for some time. From hence I
learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, espe-
cially when it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health. In
this island I had been about ten months, never all the
while having seen anyxhuman-kind, and so account-
ed myself as sole monarch; and, as I grew better,
having secured my habitation to my mind, I resolved
E 2 to
to make a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey. I sirst
.went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore; and travelling farther, found the tide going
no higher than two miles up, where there was a little
brook of running water, on the banks of which were
many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth,
and covered with grass: On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk:
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtues of
which I did not understand. But a long time I
searched for the cassava root, which I knew the In-
dians in that climate made their bread of, but all in
vain. There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time I knew not what they were: Likewise 1 saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect, for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the same
way, and farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perceived different fruits, which lay in very great
abundance. Tha melons in plenty lay on the
ground; and clusters of grapss, ripe and very rich,
spread over the trees. You may imagine I was glad
of this discovery,.yet eat very sparingly, lest i should
throw myself into a flux or fever. As fc.r the grapes,
I found them of excellent use; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried rai-
sins are kept, they proved very wholesome and nourish-
ing, and served me in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and flept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I had lain out of my habitation. And when
the morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure.
'on
on my way, travelling about four miles, as I ima-
gined, by the length of the valley, directing my
course northward, there being a ridge of hills on the
south and north side of me. At the end of this val-
ley I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west: There I found a little spring'
of fresh water proceeding out of the side of a hill,
with its chrystal streams running directly east. And
indeed here my fenses were charmed with the most
lovely object nature could afford; for' the country
appeared so flourishing, green and delightsul, that to
me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descended
on the side of that delicious vale, when I found a-
bundance of cocoa, orange, lemon and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time. As for the
juice of which I afterwards used to mix in water,
which made it very cool and refreshing. And now
I was resolved to carry home and lay up a store of
grapes, limes, and lemons against the approaching
wet season: So laying them .up in separate parcels,
and then taking a few of each with me, I returned
to my little castle, after having spent three days in
this journey: But before I got home, the grapes
were so bruised that they were utterly spoiled, the
limes indeed were good, but few could i bring away..
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprize found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten j which made me to conclude there were wild
creatures thereabouts. To remedy this, I gather'd
ajarge quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out^branches of the trees, that they might cure
and dry in the sun.: and. having well loaded myself
with limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.
And now it was, that contemplating on the fruit-
fulness of the valley, thepleasantness of theikuation,
E' 3 the
the security from storms on that side the water, and
the delightsulness of an adjacent wood; i concluded
I was settled in the worst part of the country, and
therefore was thinking to remove my habitation. But
when I considered again, that though it was pleasant,
it was not by the sea-side, where there was a possibili-
ty, some time or other, a ship might either be driven
to, or sail by that coast; and that to enclose myself
among hills and woods, must certainly frustrate all
hopes of a deliverance; I resolved to let my castle
remain where Providence had first assigned it. Yet
so ravished was I with this place, that I made me a
little kind of bower, surrounding it at a distance
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and filled with bull-rushes, and having spent
a great part of the month of jfufy, I think it was the
first of Augujt before I began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raisins of the sun; the most of which I carried to
my cave; and happy for me I did so, by which I
saved the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. It began to rain this day ; and though I
had made me a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to"
my old castle. Still the rain continued more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave
for several days. This season 1 found my family to
encrease; for one of my cats that ran away from me,
and whom I thought had been dead, returned about
Augujl with three kittens at her heels, like herself,
which 1 thought strange, because both my cats were
females, and the wild cats of the island seemed to be
es a different kind from our European cats; but from
these cats proceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced
to kill and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not'stir out, it
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which
I shot a goat, and after found a very large tortoise.
The manner of regulating my food was thus: A
bunch of raisins served me for breakfast; a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner; and two
or three turtle's eggs for my supper. While the rain
lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at enlar-
ging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards
one side till 1 came to the outside of the hill, and
made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But after I had done this, I was troubled to fee myself
thus exposed, though I could not perceive any thing
tb fear, a goat being the biggest creature I had seen
upon this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anni-
versary of my landing; and therefore humbly pro-
strating myself on the ground, confessing my sins,
acknowledging.God's righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Jesus Chrijlxa have mercy on. me, I
fasted for twelve hours tillthe going down of the sun;
and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid
me on the bed, and with great comfort took my night's
repose. Till this time, having.no fense of religion,
I never distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now i
made a longer notch than ordinary for the days of
re/1, and divided the weeks as well as I could, tho'
1 found I had lost a day or two in my account'. Soon
after, my ink failing, 1 omitted a daily memoran-
dum of indifferent things, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared now re-
gular to me, and experience taught me how to pro-
-" vide
Vide for them; yet, in one thing I am going to re-
late, my experience very much failed me. You may
call to mind what 1 have mentioned of some bar-
ley and rice which I had saved; about thirty stalks
of the former, and twenty of the latter; and at that
time the sun being in its southern position going from
me together with the rains, made me conclude it a
very proper season to sow it. Accordingly i dug up
a piece of ground with my wooden spade, and divi-
ding it in two parts, sowed about two-thirds of my
feed, preserving by me about a handsul of each. And
happy it was > did so, for no rains falling, it was
choaked up, and never appeared above the earth till
the wet season came again, and then it grew as if it
had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my bower,
there 1 sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox, which having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. Part of
the seed i had yet saved, not daring to venture all;
and my crop amounted to above half a peck of each
sort. But by this time I found the proper seasons to
sow in; and that two seed-times and two harvests t
might expect every year.
No sooner were the rains over, and the stakes,
which i had cut from the trees, shooting like willow
trees the first year after lopping their heads, than I
was ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they
grew so regularly beautisul, that they made a most
lovely appearance, and flourished so in three years
time, that 1 resolved to cut some more, and these
soon growing made a glorious fence, as in order I
shall observe.
And now s perceived that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not into summer and win-
. ter,
ter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,
in .this manner:
Half February, ~l
Mar eh, > Rainy, sun coming near the equinox.
Half April, 3
Half April,
May,
June, J. Dry, sun getting north of the lint,
Jub>
Half August,
f*
y>
Half August, 1
Septem6er, ( Wet, the sun being then come bach.
Half October, 3
Half October.
November.
her,
December, 'Dry, sun running south of the lint.
January.
Fei
Half February,
As the winds happened to blow, so the wet seasons
would continue longer or shorter: But when I found
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care before-hand to furnish myself with provi-
sions; and during the wet months fat within doors
as much as poflible: And in this time I contrived
to make many things that I wanted, though it was
with much labour and pains before i could accom-
plish them. The sirst I tried was to make a basket;
but all the twigs 1 could get, proved so brittle, that
I could not then perform it. But now it proved of
excellent advantage to me, that when a boy, I took
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the
fame town where my father lived, to view them at
work, and like other boys curious to fee the man-
ner of their working these things, and very osficious
to assist, I perfectly.learned the method of it, and
wanted nothing but the tools. And then it came
in
into my mind, that the twigs of that tree of which I
made my stakes might be as tough as sallow, willow,
and osiers, growing in England; and so resolving to
make an experiment, I went the next day to my
country feat, and found some sit for my turn; and
cutting down numbers with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and when fit to work with, carried
them to my cave, where 1 employed myself in ma-
king several sorts of baskets, to put in whatsoever !.
pleased: It is true, they were not cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things; I had ne-
ver a calk to hold my liquor, except two rumlets al-
most sull of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size,
and some square case bottles: Neither had I a pot to>
boil any thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to make
broth or stew a bit of meat. After this, I wanted
a tobacco pipe; for which last I found an expedient,
I kept myself employed in planting my second row
of stakes, and worked in this wicker the dry season.
You may remember before, that when I travelled up
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole island;
accordingly, taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two bis-
cuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual,' I began my
journey. And having passed the vale where my bower
stor d, I came within view of the sea, lying to the west,
when it being a clear day, I fairly descried land, but
could not say whether it was an island or a continent:
It extended from the W. to the W. S. W. about ten
or fifteen leagues, as I concluded. Neither could I
tell what place this might be, only thought it was
part of America, and where 1 might have been in a mi-
serable condition had ; landed. Again, 1 considered,
that if this was the Spanijh coast, certainly one time or
other j should fee some ship pass by; and if it was not,
then it must be the savage coast, between the Spanijh
. . .'. country
country and Brasil, which abound with cannibals or
man-eaters that devour human-kind.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine, the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grass,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great disficulty that
I could knock it down with my stick; and it was
some years I kept him at home, before I could get
him to call me by my name.'
In the low grounds I found various forts of hares
and foxes as I thought them, but much different from
all I had met with: Several of these I killed, but
never eat them; neither indeed had I any occasion,
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
I could defy Leadenhall market to surnish me a better
table. In this journey I did not travel above two
miles in a day, because I took several turns and
windings, to fee what discoveries I could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I designed
to rest all night, which was either in a tree, or in a
place which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild
creature might suddenly surprize me. When I came
to the sea-shore, I was amazed to fee the splendour
of it: Its strand was covered with shells of the most
beautisul fish, and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called Penguins. I might
have shot as many as I pleased, but was sparing of
my ammunition, rather chusing to kill a she-goat,
which with much disficulty I did, because of the
flatness of the country.
Now though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so natural to
me, that I did not repine at my being seated on the
worst part of the island: And so travelling about 12
miles towards the Eajt, I set a great pile on the
shore
ihore for a mark, concluding that my next journey
should be on the other side of the island east from my
castle, and so round till I came te my post again.
Howeyer, I took another way back, thinking I could
not miss by having a constant view of the country;
but scarce had I travelled three miles, when I de-
scended into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills that were covered with wood, that I had no guide
but by the sun, nor even then, unless I knew well
the position of the sun at that time of the day. What
added to my misfortune was, the weather proved so
hazy, for three or four days, as to oblige me to return
to my post by the sea-side; and so backwards the
fame way I came. My dog surprized a kid in this
journey, and would have killed it, had I not pre-
vented him. I had often been musing whether!
could not get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats to supply me after my ammunition was
spent. Upon which I made a collar for this little
creature with a string made of rope-yarn which I al-
ways carried about with me; and when I came to my
bower, there I inclosed and left him, and after a
month's time in this journey I came home to my old
habitation. • .
Nobody can suppose otherwise, but that I had
a.pleasing satisfaction, when 1 returned to my little
castle, and reposed myself in my hammock. After
this journey, I rested myself a week, and the prin-
cipal concern 1 then had was to make a cage for my
pretty poll. And then I began to consider the poor
kid 1 had left at my bower; and immediately I went
to fetch it home. When I came there, I found the
young creature almost starved; when feeding it with
branches of such shrubs as I could find, I tied it as
before; but there was no occasion, for it followed me
like a dog, and as I constantly fed it, became so lo-
ving, gentle and fond, that it commenced one of my
domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn mannef as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies; in giving him thanks
for making this solitary life as agreeable, and less
sinsul, than that of human society; and for the com-
munications of his" grace to my soul, supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the
world to come.
Before I considered how happy I was in this state
of life towards that accursed manner of living I for-
merly used, while either I was hunting or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would break out
upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would sink
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the desarts I was in; and how I was a prisoner locked
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in
an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes and with-
out redemption. And in this condition, I would
often wring my hands and weep like a child: Even
in the middle of my work this sit would take me;
and then 1 would immediately sit down and sigh,
looking on the ground for an hour or two together,
till such time as my grief would be vented, by burst-
ing out into melting tears.
As one morning I was sadly pondering in my
mind, I opened my Bible, when immediately I sixed
my eyes upon these words, / will never leave thee nor
forsake the/! Surely, thought I, these words are di-
rected to me; or else, why should they appear just at
a moment when 1 am bemoaning my forlorn condi-
tion? And if God does not forsake me, what matters
it, since he can make me more happy in thisj"state of
life than if I enjoyed the greatest splendour in the
world? But while I was going to return God
thanks for my present state, something seemed to
lhock my mind^ as if it had thus said, Unworthy
^ F wretch I
-wretch'! can you pretend to be thanksul for a costi
dition, from which you would pray to be delivered?
Here I stopt and though 1 could not fay, t
thank'd the Divine Majesty for being there, yet I
gave God thanks for placing to my view my former
wicked course of life, and granting me a true know-
ledge of repentance: And whenever I opened or shut
the Bible, I blest kind Providence that directed my
goods without my order, and for assisting me to save
it from the power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: First, My duty to
heaven, and diligently reading the Holy Scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly,
Seeking provision with my gun, which commonly
took me up when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preser-
ving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply, which took me up a great part of the
day: and in the middle of the day, the sun being in
its heighth, it was so hot that I could not stir out;
so that i had but four hours to work in: And then
my want of tools, help, and skill, wasted a great.
deal of time; for I was two and forty days making
a board fit for a long shelf, whereas two sawyers,
with'their tools and saw-pit, would have cut several
out of the same tree in half a day; but this was the
cafe, it was to be a large tree, because my board was
to be broad; I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping osf the boughs, and redu-
cina; it to a piece of timber; this I hack'd and luw'd
off each side till it became light to move; then I
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end, then turned it downward,
cutting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue
in
in such a piece work; but this I went through;
with patience, as also many other things that my
circumstances made necessary for me to do^
But now came my harvest months, November and
December, in which I had the pleasing prospect of
a very good crop: But such was my misfortune, that
the goats and hares having once tasted of the sweet-
ness of the blade, kept it so short, that it had not
strength to shoot up into a stalk .: To prevent which,
I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot seme of
its devourers; and my dog, which 1 had tied to the
field gate, keeping barking all night, frightened the
creatures away.
; No sooner did I get rid of these, but other ene-
mies appeared, whole flocks of several sorts of birds,
who only waited till my back was turned to ruin me.
So much did this provoke me, that I let fly, and
killed three of the malefactors; £nd afterwards served
them as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains as a terror toothers. And indeed
so good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long aS
these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest . of the year,
I reaped it with a scythe made of one of my broad
swords. I had no great fatigue in cutting down my
first crop, it was so slender; the ears of which £
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with
hands instead of thrashing it; and when my harvest
was over, found my half peck of feed produce near
two bushels of rice, and two bushels and a half of
barley. And now. i plainly foresaw that, by God's
goodness, 1 should be surnistied with bread; but yet
1 was concerned because I knew not how to grind or
make meal of my corn, Hor bread, neither knew how
to bake it. Upon these considerations, I would not
taste any of the crop, but preserve it against the next
F 2 season,
season, and in the'mean while use my best endea-
vours to provide myself with materials to make bread.
But where were my labours to end ?. The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I
conquered.by making me a wooden spade made after
>a wooden manner: The want of a harrow, I sup-,
plied myself by dragging over the corn a great bough
«f a tree: When it was growing or sully ripe, I
was forced to fence it, mow it, carry it home, thrash
it, part it from the chaff, and save it: And aster all
this, I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it,
yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to
bake it. This set my brains on work to sind some
expedient, for every.one of these necessaries, against
the next harvest.
And now, having more feed, my first care was to
prepare me more land. I pitched upon two large
flat pieces of ground near my castle for that purpose,
in which I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good
hedge, which took me up three months time, by
which it was the wet season. While the rain kept
me within doors, I found several occasions to em-
ploy myself; and while at work, used to divert my-
self with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name, POLL, the sirst welcome
word I ever heard spoke on the island.. I had been a
long time contriving how to make earthen vessels,
which I wanted extremely; and when I considered
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could
find any proper clay, i might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile to see what
aukward ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things
I made; how many either fell out or crack'd by the
violtnt heat of the sun, and fell in pieces when they
were
Hvere removed: So that I think it was two months
time before I could perfect any thing, and after this
great fatigue, made two clumsy things in imitation
of earthen jars. These however i very gently placed
in wicker baskets, made on purpose for them, and
between the pot and the baskets, stuffed it sull of
rice and barley straw; and these I presumed would
hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal when the
corn was bruised. But as for smaller things, I made
them with better success, which the sun baked very
hard, such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins.
Yet still I wanted one thing .absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any
liquid thing, but to bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It once happened, that as I was
putting out my fire, I found therein a broken piece
of one of my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as
a tile. This made me contrive .how to order my fire,
as to make it burn some pots; and having no notion
of a kiln,. or of glazing them with lead, I sixed three
large pipkins, and two or. three pots in a pile one
upon another. The fire I plied round the outside .
With dry wood, and on the top, till I saw the pots .
in the inside red hot, and found that they did not.
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly
red, I let one of them stand in the fire about five or .
fix hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of"
the heat, and would have run to glass, had 1 suffered
it; upon which I slacked my fire by.degrees, till.
the redness abated; and watching them till the
morning, I found I had three very good pipkins,
and two earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my
turn as I could defire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this disco-
Very: For after this, I may fay, I wanted. for no
fort of earthen-ware. 1 filled one of my pipkins with
Water to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
Fj. . well,
. broth, as well as my circumstances would afford me
at that time.
The next concern I had was to make me a stone^
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
grind it. Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not
being fit for a stone-cutter; and many days I spent
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow
and make fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear
the weight of a pestle, as would break the corn
without filling it with sand: But all the stones of the
island being of a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless, and then 1 resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood; which having soon found,
I formed with my axe and hammer, and then with
infinite labour made a hollow place in it, just as the
Indians of Brafil make their canoes. When I had
finished this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood,
which I had formerly laid up against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal, and part it from the bran and the husk.
Having no fine thin canvas to search the meal thro',
I could not tell what to do; what linen I had was
reduced to rags: I had goat's hair enough, but nei-
ther tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin
it: At length I remembered I had some neckcloths
of callicoe or muslin of the sailors, which I had
brought out of the ship, and with these I made three
small sieves, proper enough for the work.
And now I come to consider the baking part in
course. The want of an oven I supplied by making
some earthen pans very broad, but not deep. When
. I had a mind to bake, I made a great fire upon my
hearth, the tiles of which I had made myself, and
when the wood was burnt into live coals, I spread
|hcm all over it, till it*became very hot, then sweep-
ing them away, I set down my loaves, and whelm-
ing down the earthen pots upon them, drew the
ashes and coals all around the outside of the pots to
continue the heat; and in this manner I used to
bake my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry-cook, making myself of the rice seve-
ral cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what intermediate time
I had was bestowed in managing my new harvest and
husbandry; for in the proper season I reaped my
corn, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed my corn increased
fo much that it produced me about twenty bushels
of bailey, and as much of rice, that 1 not only be-
gan to use it freely, but was thinking how to en-
large my barns, and was resolved to sow so much at
a time as would be sufficient for me a whole year.
All this while the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this
place, though the fear of greater misfortunes might
have deterred me from it: For after I had attained
that place, I run the hazard of being killed and
eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they were
not so, yet i might be slain, as other Europeans had
been who fell into their hartiis. Notwithstanding
all this, my thoughts ran continually upon my ac-
quiring that shore: And now I wanted my boy Xury^
and the long boat, with the shoulder of mutton
(ail. Then I went to the ship's boat that had been
cast a great way on the shore in the late storm. She
was but a little removed: but her bottom was turn-
ed up by the impetuosity and sury of the waves
and wind. With' all the.strength I had, I tried
whatever I could do, with levers and rollers I had
cut
mages she had sustained. This work took me up
three or four weeks, when finding my little strength
all in vain, I fell to undermine it by digging away
the sand, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it in the fall. But after
this was done, unable was I to stir it up again, or to
get under it", much less to move it forwards to-
wards the water, and so I was forced to give it over.
Not contented with this disappointment, I began
to think whether it was not possible for me to make a
Canoe or periagua, such as the Indians make of the
trunk of a tree; but here I lay under particular
inconveniencies, want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it to the water when it was
made. However, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the enquiries I could make, with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it, I'll
warrant I'll find some way or other to get it along
when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end
of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a
space, and then parted into branches. Twenty
days was I hacking and hewing this tree at the
bottom, fourteen more in cutting off the branches
and limbs, and a whole month in shaping it like
the bottom of a boat; as for the inside, I was three
weeks, with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such
a manner as that it was big enough to carry twenty-
fix men, much bigger than ever a canoe I saw in
my life, and consequently sufficient to transport me
and all my effects to that wished for shore I so ar-
dently desired.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about 100

yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill" between this boat and the
creek, with wondersul pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insufficient to move it, as it was when I attempted
to move the boat. Then I proceeded to measure
the distance of ground, resolving to make a canal, in
order to bring the water to the canoe, since I could
not bring the canoe to the water. But as this seemed
to be impracticable to myself alone, under the space
of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some
fort of consideration, that I concluded it impossible
to be done, and so this attempt was in vain also.
And now I saw, and not before, what stupidity it
is to begin a work before we reckon its costs, or
judge right of our own abilities to go through with
its performance. i
Jt was in the heighth of this work, my fourth.
year expired, since 1 was cast on this island; and
then 1 did not forget my anniversary, but kept it
with the same ardent devotion 1 had done before.
But now, my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon
this world as a thing I had nothing to do with; and
very well might I fay, as father Abraham unto Dives,
Between me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And in-
deed from the world I was separated from its wick-
edness too, having neither the lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, or the pride of life; 1 had nothing
to covet, being lord, king, or emperor over the
whole country 1 had in possession, without dispute,
and without controul; i had loadings of corn,
plenty of turtles, timber in abundance, and grapes
above measure; but after I was served, what was
all the rest to me? The money 1 had by me lay as
despicable dross, which I would freely have given
for a gross of tobacco=.pipes, cr a hand-mill to grind
my corn.: In a word, the nature and experience of
these things dictated to me this just reflection, That
the good things of this world are no farther good to
us than they are for our use; and that whatever we
j may heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as
/ much as we use and no more. . . .
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to eat I did it with
thanksulness, admiring the providential hand of God,
that in this wilderness had spread this table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted; compared my present condition
with what I at first expected it should be; how I
should have done, if I had got nothing out of the
(hip; that I must have perished before 1 had caught
sish. or turtles; or lived, had I found them, like a
mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling them
in pieces with my claws, like a beast. I next com-
pared my station to that which I deserved; how un-
dutisul had been to my parents, how destitute of the
fear of God ; howivoid of every thing that was good;
and how ungratesul for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great Elijah's being fed by ravens;
and cast On a place where there was no venemous
creature to poison or devour me: In short, ma-
king God's tender mercies matter of great consola-.
tion, I relinquished all sadness, and gave way to
contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with water
I made last as long as 1 could, \ used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened. And,
First, i observed, That the same day I forsook my
parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards, in the next
year, I was taken ana made a slave by the Sallee
rover.
The
day, I made my escape from Sallee, in my patron's
The 30th of September, being the day of the year
was I miraculously saved, and cast on shore on this
Island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink was the
biscuit which i had brought out of the ship: And
though I allowed myself but one cake a-day, for a-
bove a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread
for near a year, before i got any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before; however, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailors chec-
quered shirts, which proved a great refreshment to
me, when the violent beams of the sun would not
suffer me to bear any of the seamens heavy watch-
coats, which made me turn taylor, and after a mi-
serable botching manner, convert them into jackets.
To preserve my head, I made me a cap of goat-
Ikift, with the hair outwards, to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that I afterwards
made me a waistcoat and open-knee'd breeches of
the fame: And then I contrived a . fort of an um-
brella, covering it with sleins, which not only kept
out the heat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus
being easy and settled in my mind, my chiefest hap-
piness was to converse with God, in most heavenly
and comfortable ejaculations.
For five years after this. I cannot fay any extraor-
dinary thing occurred to me. My chief employ-
ment was to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and
rice, of both which I had a year's provision before-
hand. But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it, atintermediate times, my business
to make a second, of much inferior size; and it was two

twenty-six years after,
years
years before I finished it. . But as I perceived it would
no ways answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to fee what surther discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having'moved
her to the water, and tried how she would fail, I
fitted up a little mast to her, and made a fail of the
ship's fail that lay by me. I then made lockers
or boxes, at the end of it, to put in necessary provi-
sions and ammunition, which would preserve them dry
either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and in the
inside of the boat I cut a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a flag to hang over
it; .my umbrella I sixed in a step in the stern like
a mast to keep the heat of the sun off me: And
now, resolving to see the circumference of my lit-
tle kingdom, I victualled my ship for the voyage,
putting in two dozen of my barley bread loaves,
an earthen pot sull of parched rice, a little bottle of
rum, half a goat, powder and shot, and two watch-
coats. It was the 6th of November, in the 6th year
of my reign, or captivity, that I set out in this
voyage, which was much longer than I expected,
being obliged to put surther out, by reason of the
rocks that lay a great way in the sea: And indeed
so much did .these rocks surprise me, that I was for
putting back, fearing, that if I ventured surther, it
would be out of my power to return. In this con-
susion I came to an anchor just off shore, to which
I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and then,
climbing up an hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the sull extent of it, and resolved to run all
hazard.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a vio-"
lent current running to the cast, coming very close
to the point; which 1 the more caresully observed,
thinking it dangerous, and that, when I came to it,
I mi^ht be drove into the sea by its force, and not able
to return to the island; and certainly it must hate
been so, had I not made this observation; for on the
other side was the like current, with this difference,
that it set off at a greater distance; when I perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land, so that my
chiefest business was to work out of the first current,
and conveniently get into an eddy. Two days'I
staid here, the wind blowing very briskly E. S. E.
which being contrary to the current, leaves a great
breach on the sea upon the point; so it was not fit
for me to keep too near the shore, upon account of
the breach ; nor to stand at too great a distance, for
fear of the streams. That night the wind abating,
it grew so calm that.I ventured out; but surely
I was to be a memento to all rash and ignorant pi-
lots: For I was no sooner come to the point, and
not above the boat's length from the shore, but I
was got into a deep water, with a current like a mill,
which drove my boat along so violently that it was
impossible for me to keep her so much as to the edge
of it; but it forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of me, stnd all I could do with my
paddles was useless, there being no wind to help me.
Alas! now I began to think myself quite lost;
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island,
I was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea,
after what provisions I had was spent, or before, if
a storm should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? With longing eyes did I
look upon my little kingdom, and thought the island
the pleasentest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desart, said I, shall I never see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did
I murmur at my' lonesome condition, when now I
would give the whole world to be there again?
While I was thus contemplating, I found my self to be
G driven
driven about two leagues into the sea; however, I
laboured till my strength was spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could, to that side of
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon, I
perceived a little breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart the more, when,
in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale.
Had any thick weather sprung up, I had been lost
another way; for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards the
island, if once it had disappeared; but it proving the
contrary, I set up my mast again, spread my sail,
and stood away northward as much as I could, to get
rid of the current: And no sooner did the boat be-
gin to stretch away, but I perceived,'by the clearness
of the water, a change of the current was near;
for where it was clear, the current abated. To the
east I soon saw, about half a mile, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to sepa-
rate; and as the main force drove away more south-
wardly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the
other came back by the repulse of the rocks, making
a sharp eddy, which returned back again to the north
west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prieved upon the ladder, or to be saved from thieves
just going to take away their lives, or else such who
have been in the like calamities, may guess my pre-
sent excess of joy; how heartily I run my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and how joysully I spread
my sail to the refreshing wind, standing chearsully
before it with a smart tide under foot. By the as-
sistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
honie again, when being in the wake of the island,
betwixt the two currents, 1 found the water to be
at a sort of a stand. About four o'clock in the after-
noon
noon I reached within a league of the island, and
perceived the points of the rock, which caused this
disaster, stretching out as I observed before, to the
southward, which throwing off the current more
southwardly, had occasioned another eddy to the
north. But having a fair brisk gale, I stretched a-
crose this eddy, and in.air hour came within a mile
of the shore, where I soon landed, to my' unspeak-
able comfort; And after an humble prostration,
thanking God for my deliverance, with a resolution
to leave all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my
boat sase into a little cove, and laid me down to take.
a welcome repose. When I awoke, I was consider-
ing how I might get my boat home; and' coasting
along the . shore, 1 came to a good bay, which ran
. up to a rivulet or brook, where finding a safe har-
bour, I stowed her as fase as if she had been in a^
dry dock made on purpose for her.
And now I perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; when. taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, 1
began my journey, and in the evening came to my
bower, where I again laid me down to rest. But it
was not long before I was awakened in great surprise
by a strange voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, Poor Robin! Where are yotix
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where'have you beenf
So fast was I asleep at first, that I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought 1 dreamt that somebody spoke to me. But as
the voice repeated Robinson Crusoe several times, be-
ing terribly affrighted, I started up" in the utmost
consusion5 when no sooner were my eyes sully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called me y
for just in such bewailing language I used to talk and
teach him, which he so exactly learned, that he would
sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face,
G 2 and
and cry, Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? Wlure.
have you heen P How came you here? And such like
prattle as I had constantly taught him. But as t
knew it to be the parrot, it was a great while before
I could adjust myself; first, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and that he should six about
that place, and no where else. When" I was assured
it could be no other than my honest Poll, my won-
der ceased; so reaching out my hand, and calling
familiarly, Poll, the creature came to me, 2nd
perched upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me, with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and How
did I come here? and Where had I been? As if the
bird was overjoyed to fee me; and so I took him home
along with me. Tr
Now though I was pretty well cured of my ram-
bling to sea again, yet I could wish my boat, which
. had cost me so much trouble and pains, on this side
the island once more, which indeed was impractica-
ble. 'And so I led a very retired life, living near a
twelvemonth, in a very contented manner, wanting
for nothing except conversation. . As to mechanic
labours, which my necessities obliged me to, I fan-
cied 1 could, upon occasion, make a tolerable car-
penter were the tools I had to work withal but good.
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I con-
trived to make them with a wheel, which I found
much easier and better; making my work shapable,
which before was rude and ugly. But I think I was
never so elevated with my own performance or pro-
ject as for being able to make a tobacco-pipe; which
though it proved an aukward, clumsy thing, yet it
was very sound, and carried the fmoak perfectly
well, to my great satisfaction.
Also I improved my wicker-ware, makings me a-
bundance of necessary baskets, which though not very
handsome, vere very handy and convenient to fetch
things.
things home in, as also for holding my stores, bar-
ley, rice, and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds to
live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and fee if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, bated with barley and rice, I found
one morning in one of them an old he-goat, and in
the other three kids, one male, the other two fe-'
males."
So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But 1 forgot the proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given him
some water, with a little corn, he would'havc been
as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together, but I had great disficulty be-
fore I could bring them to my habitation. It was
some time before they would feed, when throwing
them some corn, it so much tempted them, that they
began to be tame; from hence I "concluded, that if
I designed to surnish myself with goats flesh, when
my ammunition was spent, the tamely breeding them
up like a flock of sheep about my settlement, was the
only method I could take. I concluded also I must
separate the wild from the tame, or else they would
always run wild as they grew up; and the best way
for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground/
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep theft*
so effectually, that those within might not break out,
or those without break in. Such an undertaking.
was very great for one pair of hands; but as there
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my sirst care'
was to find a convenient piece of ground where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. ; .
G 3 But
But here I began madly, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I enclosed it with
infinite pains, this hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles about. indeed had it been ten miles
I had time enough to do it in; but then I did not
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole Island, and
consequently as difficult for me to catch them. And
this thought came into my head, after I had carried
on, I believe, about fifty yards; when I resolved to
enclose a piece of ground 150 yards in length, and
100 in breadth, sufficient enough for as many as
would maintain me, till such time as my flock en-
creased, and then I could add more ground. Upon
which, I vigorously prosecuted my work, and it took
me about three months in hedging the sirst piece; in
which time I tethered the three kids in the best part
of it, feeding them as near me as possible to make
them familiar; and indeed very often would I carry
some ears of barley, or a handsul of rice, and feed
them out of my hand; by which means they grew
so Came, that when my enclosure was finished, and I
had let them loose, they would run after me for an
handsul of corn. This indeed answered my end;
and in a year and a half's time I had a flock of about
twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years after,
they amounted to three and forty, besides what I had
taken and killed for my sustenance. After this, I
enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in,
with penns to drive them into, that I might take
them as I had occasions: i .
But still I had additional blessings, not only in
having plenty of goats flesh, but milk too, which in
my beginning I did not so much as think of: And
indeed, though 1 had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter cheese made, yet after some
essays and miscarriages I made me both, and neves
afterwards wanted. i. .
How
'
How mercisully can the omnipotent power com-
fort his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities: How can he sweeten the bitterest Provi-
dences, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons! what a bounteous table was here
spread in a wilderness for me, when I expected no-
thing at first but to perish with hunger.
Certainly a stoic would have smiled to have seen
me at dinner; there was my royal Majesty, an abso-
lute prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by
my dutisul subjects, w.hom, if I pleased, I could eir
ther hang, draw, quarter, give liberty, or take it
away. When I dined, i seemed a king, eating alone,
none daring to presume to do so till 1 had done. Poll^
as if he had been my principal court favourite, was
the only person permitted to talk with me. My old
but faithful dog, now grown exceeding crazy, and
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, con-
tinually fat at my right hand ; while my two cats
fat on each side of the table, expecting a bit from my
hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. Yet
these were not the cats I had brought from the
ship; they had been dead long before, and interred
near my habitation by mine own hand: But one of
them, as I suppose, generating with a wild cat, these
were the couple I had made tame; whereas the rest
run into the woods, and grew so impudent as tore-
turn and plunder me of my stores, till such time as I
shot a great many, and the rest lest me with this at-
tendance.. in this very plentisul manner. did I
live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One
thing more indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat. I knew not which way to get her round the
ifland. I resolved one time to go along the shore by
land to her; but had any one in England met such a
sigure, it would either.affright them, or make them
burst into laughter; Nay, myself could not but senile
at
at my habit, which I think, in this place, it is very
proper to describe.
The cap I had upon my head was great, high, and
shapeless, made of a goat-skin, with a flap or pent-
house hanging down behind, not only to keep the
son from me, but to shoot the rain osf from running
into my neck, nothing being more pernicious than
the rain falling upon the flesh in these parts. I had
a short jacket of goat-skin, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that it reached down to
the caves of my legs. As for shoes and stockings I
had none, but made a resemblance of something, I
know not what to call them; they were made like
buskins, and laced on the sides like spatterdashers,
barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit. I had
on me a broad belt of goat-skin dried, girt round
with a couple of thongs instead of buckles ; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and
dagger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another
belt, not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made also of
foat-skin, to hold my powder and shot. My basket
carried on'my back, and my gun on my shoulder,
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat-skirt
umbrella, which, however, next my gun, was the
most necessary thing about me. As for my face, the
colour was not so swarthy as the molattas, as might
be expected from such a person as I, who took so
little care of it, in a climate within nine or ten de-
grees from the equinox. At one time my beard grew
so song, that it hung down above a quarter of a
yard; but as I had both razors and scissars in store,
I cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, the like of which
I had seen worn by some Turks at Settee, not long
enough to hang a hat upon, but of such a mon-
strous
i t 81 }
strous size, is would have amazed any in England to>
Have seen.
i But all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit. And
so without fear, and without oontroul, I proceeded
on my journey, the prosecution of which took me up
five or six days. I first travelled along the sea-shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat
to an anchor, to get upon the rocks. But now ha-
ving no boat to take care of, I went over th* land a
nearer way, to the fame heighth that I wa6 before
upon; when looking forward to the point of the
rock which lay out, and which I was forced to dou-
ble with my boat, I was amazed to "fee the sea <b
smooth and quiet, there being no ripling, motion, or
current, any more than in other places: Which
made me indeed ponder some time to imagine the
reason of it, when at last I was convinced how it was,
which was this; the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the currents of waters from some great
rivers on the shore, must be the occasion of these ra-
pid streams; and that consequently as the winds blew
more westwardly, or more southwardly, so the current
came the nearer, or went the surther from shore. To
satisfy my curiosity, I waited there till evening, when
the tide of ebb being made, from the rock I plainly
perceived the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther off, near half a league from
the shore ; whereas in my condition, it set quite upon
it, suriously hurrying me and my canoe along with
it, which at another time it would not have done.
And now I was convinced that, by observing the
ebbing and slowing of the tide, I might easily bring
my boat round the island again: But when I began to
think of puttingitin practice, the remembrance of the
late danger I was in struck me with such horror, that
I changed my resolution, which wa& more safe, tho'
more
more laborious; and this was to make another canoe,
and so have one for one fide of the island, and One
(ot the other.
Here I think it very proper to inform my readers,
that I had two plantations in thq island; the first was
my little fortification, fort, or castle, with" many
large and spacious improvements: For by this time
I had enlarged. the cave behind me with several little
caves, one within another, to .hold my baskets,
corn and straw. The piles with which I made my
wall were grown so lofty and great, as obscured my
habitation: And near this commodious and pleasant
settlement lay my two well cultivated and improved
corn fields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in.'
the proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country feat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where, havnig planted many
stakes, I made enclosures for my goats, so strongly1
fortified by labour and time, that. it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossible
for them to break through. As for my bower itself,
I kept it constantly in repair, and cut the trees in
such a manner as made them grow thick and wild,;
and form the most delightsul shade. . In the center
of this stood my tent, thus erected: I had driven four
piles in the ground, spreading over them a piece of
the ship's fail; beneath which I made me a sort of a
couch with the skins of the creatures I had slain,
and other things ; and having laid thereon one of the
sailors blankets, which I had saved from the wreck
of the ship, and covering myself with a great watch-
coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to
visit my boat, and kept her in very good order. And
sometimes I would venture. in her a cast or two from
shore, but no farther, lest either a strong current, a
sudden stormy wind, or some unlucky accidents.
should hurry me from the island as before. But now
I entreat your attention, while I proceed to inform
you of a new but moll surprising scene of life,
wherein I was acting again in a stranger manner.
You may suppose that, after I had been here so
long, nothing could have been more amazing than to
have seen a human creature. But one day it hap-
pened that, going to my boat, I saw the print of a
man's naked foot on the more, very evident on the
sand, as the toes, heel, and every part of it. Had
I seen an apparition, in the most frightsul manner, I
could not have been more confounded : My willing
cars gave the strictest attention. I cast my eyes a-
round, But neither could satisfy the one or the other.
When I proceeded alternately to every part of the
shore, still it was all as one; neither could I fee any
other mark, though the sand about it was as suscepti-
ble to take impression as that which was so plainly
stampt. Thus, struck with consusion and horror, I
.returned to my habitation, frightened at every bush
and tree, as taking them for men; and, being pos-
sessed with the wildest ideas, got over I cannot tell
how. But that night my eyes never closed, though
farther from danger, when even then I formed nothing
but the most dismal imaginations, thinking it must be
the mark of the Devil's foot which I had seen: For
otherwise how could any mortal body come to this
Island? And if so, where was the ship that transport-
ed them? And what signs of any other footsteps?
Though these seemed very strong reasons for such a
supposition, yet (thought 1) why should the Devil
make the print of his foot to no purpose, as I can fee,
when he might have taken other ways to have terri-
fied me ? Why should he leave his mark on the other
fide of the island, and that too on the sand, where
the surging waves of the ocean might soon have
erased the impression. Surely this action is not con-
sistant with the subtlety of SATAN, said I to my-
self; but rather must be some dangerous creature,
some
1
some wild savage of thefrnain~land over against me,
that, venturing too far in the ocean, was driven here
either by the violent currents or contrary winds;
and so not cariitg to stay on this desolate Island, was
gone back to sea again.
Happy was I in my thoughts that no savages had
seen me in that place, yet much terrified, lest, having
found my boat, they should return in numbers and
destroy me, or at least carry away all my corn, and
destroy my flock of tame goats: In a word, all my
religious hopes vanished, as though I thought God
could not protect me by his power, who had so won-
dersully preserved it so long.
What various chains of Providence there are in the
life of man! How changeable are our affections, ac-
cording to disferent circumstances? We love to-
day what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour what
we seek the next; and this was evident in me in the
most perspicuous manner; for I, who before had so
much lamented my cbndition, in being banished from
all human kind, was now almost ready to expire, when
I considered that a man had set his foot on this deso-
late Island. But when I considered my station of
life, decreed by the infinitely wise and good Providence
of God; that I ought not to dispute my Creator's sove-
reignty, who had an undoubted right to govern and
dispose of his creatures as he thinks convenient; and
that his justice and mercy could either punish or deli-
ver me : I fay when I considered all this, I comfortably
found it my duty to trust sincerely in him, pray ardently
to him, and humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One'morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings came again into my mind, Call upon
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou jhalt glorify me. Upon this sentence, rising more
chearsully from my bed, I oft'ered up my prayers in
the most heavenly manner: And when I had done, ta-
king up my Bible to read, these words appeared first in
my sight: Wait on the Lord, and be os good cheer,
\and he jhall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me, as to
remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
i Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and nights, at last I ventured out of
my castle, and milked my goats, one of which was '-
almost spoiled for want of it. I next, though in
great fear) visited my bower, and milked my flocks
there also; when growing bolder, I went down to
the shore again, and measuring the print of the foot
to mine, to see whether, perhaps, 1 myself had not
occasioned that mark, I found it much superior in
largeness; and so I returned home, possessed with
the notion, that either some men had been ashore,
or that the island must be inhabited; and therefore,
that I might be surprised before I was aware.
Struck with a second and more terrible fear, seve-
ral thoughts of security came into my mind: And
that night I was first proposing to cut down my en-
closures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the
woods, that the enemy mighr not find them, and
frequent the island in hopes of the fame. Secondly, I
was for digging up my corn fields for the very fame
reason: And, Lastly, I concluded to demolish my
bower, lest, seeing such a place of human contrivance,
they might come farther and attack me in my little
castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest unto
me; and, I looked, 1 thoughf, like the unfortunate
King Saul, when not only oppress'd by the Philistines.
but also forsaken by God himself: And it is strange,
that a little before having entirely resigned myself to
the will of God, I should now have so little consi-
dence in him, fearing those more who might kill
this fading body, than him who could destroy my
immortal soul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night;
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
H pose
.po£e the next morning: and then, joining reason
with my fear, I considered, that this delightsul and
pleasant island might not be entirely forsaken, as I
might think; or that the inhabitants from the other
shore might sail either with design or necessity, by
cross winds; and if the latter circumstance, they de-
parted upon the first opportunity. But still my fear
occasioned me to think of a place for retreat, upon an
attack. I now repented that I had made the door
that came out beyond my fortisication; but resol-
ving to make me a second, I drove between that dou-
ble row of trees, which I planted about 12 years be-
fore, several piles, thickening it with pieces of tim-
ber and old cables, and strengthening the foot of it
with earth which I dug out of my cave. I also made
me seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets like
cannon, sitting them into frames resembling carria-
ges. This being finished with indefatigable industry,
for a great way every way I planted sticks of osier-
like wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving
a large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and that they might not
be sheltered from the young trees, if they offered to
approach the outer wall. And indeed scarce two
years had passed over my head, when there appeared
a lovely shady grove, and in six years it became a
thick wood perfectly impassable. For my safety, I
left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which I set
two ladders; one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, leaving room to place ano-
. ther ladder upon that; so that when I took those
clown, it was impossible for any man to descend without
hurting himself; and if they had, they would still be
at the outside of my outer wall. But while I took
all these measures of human prudence for my own
preservation, I was altogether unmindsul of other
affairs: To preserve my stocks of tame goats, that
the enemy should not take all at once, I looked out
for the most retired part of the island, which was the.
jslace where 1 had lost myself before-mentioned, and
there finding a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick. woods, I worked so
hard, that in less than a month's time I fenced it so
well round, that my flocks were very well secured in
it, putting therein two he-goats and ten she ones.
As this labour was occasioned purely by my fear-
sul apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of/
a man's foot; not contented with what I had done,
I searched for another place towards the west point
of the island, where I might also retain another flock.
Thtn methought I perceived a boat at a great distance
in the sea; but could not possibly tell what it was for
want of njy perspective glass. I considered then itr
was no strange thing to fee the print of a man's foot;
and concluding them cannibals, blessed God for my~
being cast on the other. side of thi island, where none
of the favages,~as I thought, ever came. But when
I came down the hill to the shore, which was the S.W.
point .of the island, I was not only amazed, but
perfectly consirmed in my opinion: For the place
was spread with sculls, hands, feet, and bones of hu-
man bodies; and then I perceived a space like a cir-
cle, in the midst of which had been afire; about thia
sire I conjectured these wretches fat, and unnaturally
sacrificed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadsul
spectacle both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge the violent disorder from my stomach. So
that when I had vomited in a very excessive manner,
I returned towards my habitation; and in my way
thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down on
my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to these wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
No .v though reason and my long residence there
had assured me, that these savages never came up to
H 2 the
the thick woody partrof the country; and that I had
no occasion to discover myself, who was so perfectly
concealed from them; yet such an abhorence did I
still retain, that for two years after I confined myself
only t(> my three plantations; I mean my castle,
country feat, and enclosure in the woods. And
when, in this solitary life, my dreadsul apprehensions
began to wear away, yet my eyes were more vigilant
for fear of being surprized, and I was cautious of
firing my gun, lest, being heard by "those creatures,
they should proceed to attack me; but resolving
mansully to lose my life if they did, I went armed
with three pistols stuck in my girdle, which added.
to the description I have given of myself before, made
me look with a very formidable appearance.
And thus my circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed. When I com-
pared my condition to others, I found it far from.
being miserable: And indeed would all persons com-
pare their circumstances, not with those above them,
but with those innumerable unhappy objects beneath
them, I am sure we should not hear those daily mur-
murings and complainings that are in the world. For
my part, I did not want many things: Indeed the
terror which the savages had put me in spoilt some
inventions for my own conveniencies; one.of which
was really very ridiculous, except I could accomplish
it, and happy it was they hindered me from putting
it in practice. My design was to brew me some beer,
when I had neither casks sufficient, nor could make
any, to preserve it in; neither had I hops to make it
keep, yeast to make it work, nor a copper or kettle
t a make it boil. Perhaps indeed, after some years,
I might bring this to bear, as I had done other things:
But now my inventions were placed another way;
and one was, how I might destioy some of these can-
nibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertain-
ments 5 and so saving a victim from being sacrificed,
lie might after became my servant. Many were my
contrivances for this purpose, and as many more ob-
jections occurred after I hatched them: For when I
contrived to dig .a hole under the place where they
made their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of.
gunpowder, which would consequently blow up all
those that were near it; why then I was loth to spend
fo much upon them, lest it mould not do that certain
execution 1 could defire; and but only affright, and
not kill them. Having laid this design aside, 1 pro-
posed to myself to lay privately in ambush, in some
convenient place, with my three guns double loaded,
and let fly at them in the midst of their dreadsul cere-
mony; and having killed two or three of them at
every shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my three
pistols, and not let one mother's son escape. And so
much did this imagination please my fancy, that I used.
to dreafh of it in the night-time. To put my design.
in execution, I was not long seeking for a place very
convenient for my purpose, where, unseen, I might
behold every action of the savages. Here I placed my
two muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace
of flugs, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol-bullets; the fowling-piece was charged
with near a handsul of the largest swan-shot; and ia.
every pistol were about four bullets. And thus all
things being prepared, no sooner would the welcome
light spread over the element, but, like a giant refrejh-
ed with wine, as the Scripture has it, would 1 iliue
forth from my castle, and, from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, view if I could fee any invaders ap-
proach unlawsully to my kingdom. But havings
waited in vain two or three months, it not only grew
very tiresome to me, but brought me into some con-
sideration, and made me examine myself, what right.
I had to kill these creatures in this manner?
~If (argued I to myself) this unnaiun.l custom of.
theirs be a sin offensive to heaven, it belongs to the
H 3 Divine
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands to shower down vengeance upon them: And
perhaps he does so, in making them become one an-
other's executioners. Or if not, if God thinks these
doings j ust, according to the knowledge which they
conceive, what authority have I to pretend to all the
decrees of Providence, which has permitted these ac-
tions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the be-
ginning of the creation? They never offended me,
what right had I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's blood? And, as I have since
known, they value no more to kill and devour a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat
mutton. From hence it followed, that these people
were no more murderers than Christians, who many
times put whole troops to the sword, after throwing
down their arms. Again I considered, that if I fell
upon them, I should be as much in the wrong as the
Spaniards, who had committed the greatest barbarities
upon these people, who had never offended them in
their whole lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was emi-
nent for a race of men without common compassion
to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a principal
sign of the most generous temper. In a word, I con-
cluded never to attack them, whose numbers might
overpower me;' or that some escaping, might bring
thousands to my certain destruction, not so much as
to shew myself, which might oblige me even to a
necessary duty of defence. And indeed religion took
their part so much as to convince me how contrary
it was to my duty to be guilty of shedding human
blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever they
are to one another; and that I had nothing to do
with it but leave it to theGcd of al] power and domi-
nion, as I said before, to do therein what seemed con-
venient to his heavenly wisdom. And therefore, on
my knee?, I thanked the Almighty for delivering me
from blood-guiltiness, and begged his protection that
.1 might never fall into th::ir hands. Thus,
Thus, giving over an attempt which I had rashly
tegun, 1 never ascended the hill on that occasion af-
terwards; only I 'removed my boat which lay on the
other side of the island, and every thing, such as they
were, that belonged to her, towards the east, into a
little cove, that there might not be the least shadow
of discovery of any boat near, or habitation upon the
island. And then my castle became my cell, keeping
very retired in it, except to milk my she-goats, and
order my little flock in the wood, which was quite
out of danger; for sure it is, these savages never
came here with expectations to find any thing, and
consequently never wandered from the coast; and as
they might have several times been on shore, as well
before as after my dreadsul apprehensions, i looked
back with horror to think in what a state I might
have been, had i suddenly met them slenderly armed,
with one gun only loaded with small shot: And how
great would have been my amazement, if, instead
of seeing the print of one man's foot I had perceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, there
wss no possibility of my escaping? These'thoughts
would sink my very soul within me, so that I would
fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as the
consideration of my gratitude to the Divine Being
moved it from my heart. And then I fell into a con-
templation of the secret springs of Providence': How
wondersully we are delivered, when we are insensible
of it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or la-
byrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret hint shall
direct us in the right way, when we intended to go
out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary to our business,
fense, or inclination. Upon which, i sixed within
me this as a certain rule, never to disobey tliofe secret
impressions of my mind to the acting or not acting
any thing that osfered, for which 1 yet could assign
no reason: But let it be how it will, the advantage of
. this
this conduct very eminently appeared in the latter part
of my abode on this island: i am a stranger in deter-
mining whence these secret intimations of Providence
derive; yet, methinks, they are not only some proofs of
the converse of spirits, but also of the secret commu-
nications they are supposed to have with those that
have not passed through the gloomy vale of death.
As in these many anxieties of mind, the care of
mj preservation put a 'period to all inventions and
contrivances, either for suture accommodations or
conveniencies; so I never cared to drive a nail, chop
a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise
should be heard, or the smoak discover me: And,
upon this account, I used to burn my earthen ware
privately in a cave which I found in the wood, and
which I made convenient for that purpose: But the
principal cause that first brought me here was to
make charcoal, so that I might bake and dress my
bread and meat, without any danger. While I was
cutting down some wood for this purpose, I percei-
ved a cavity behind a very thick branch of under-
wood. Curious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sufficient for me to stand upright in
it. But when I had entered and took a surther view,
two rowling shining eyes, like flaming stars, seemed
to dart themselves at me, so that I made all the haste
out that I could, as not knowing whether it was the
Devil or a monster that had taken his residence in'
that place. But when I recovered from my surprize,
I called myself a thousand fools, for being afraid to
fee the Devil one moment, who had now lived al-
most twenty years in the most retired solitude:
And therefore, resuming all the courage 1 had, I
took up a flaming firebrand, and in 1 rushed again;
when not having proceeded above three steps, I
was more affrighted than before; for then I heard
a very loud sigh, like that of a human creature in.
the greatest agony, succeeded with a broken noise,
resembling
resembling words half expressed, and then a broken
sigh again. Stepping back, Lord! (thought I to
myself) where am I got? Into what enchanted place
have I plunged myself, such as are reported to con-
tain miserable captives, till death puts an end to their
sorrow? And indeed, such a great amazement was I
in, that it struck me with a cold sweat; and had my
Tiat been on my head, I believe my hair would have
moved it osf. But again, encouraging myself with
the hopes of God's protection, I proceeded forward,
and, by the light of my firebrand, perceived it to be
a monstrous he-goat, lying on the ground, gasping
for life, and dying of mere old age. When at first I
stirred him, thinking to drive him out, the poor an-
cient creature strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able; so I e'en let him stay still, to asfright the sava-
ges, should they venture into this cave. In the mean
time, I looked round me, and found the place but
small and shapeless: At the surther side of it I per-
ceived a fort of an entrance, yet so low as must
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to it;
when, having no candle, I suspended my enterprize
till the next day, and then 1 came provided with six
large ones of my own making.
When, upon my hands and feet I had crept thro'
the straight, I found the roof rose higher up, i think,
about twenty feet: But surely never mortal saw such
a glorious sight in this island before! The roof and
walls of this cave reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles, as though they were
indented in with shining gold, precious stones, or
sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightsul cavity or grotto, of its kind, as could be
desired, though entirely dark: The floor. was dry
and level, and .had a kind of gravel upon it; no
nauseous venemous creature to be seen there, nei-
ther any damp or wet about it: I could find no
fault but in the entrance, which I thought might be
very
very necessary for my defence, and therefore was re-
solved to make this place my most principal maga-
zine. I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, plant-
ed in the nature of cannon. In a barrel of gun-
powder, which I took out of the sea, I brought away
about sixty pounds of good powder, which was not
damaged ; and these, with a great quantity of lead
for bullets, I removed from my castle to this retreat,
now fortified both by art and nature.
Surely it is no wonder, if at this time I thought
myself like one of the giants of old, who were said to
live in caves and holes among the rocks, inaccessible
to any but themselves, or, at least, most dangerous to
attempt. So that now it seems I despised both the
cunning and strength of the savages, either to find
me out or to hurt me.
But I must not forget the old goat, who caused
my late dreadsul amazement: The poor creature
gave up the ghost the day after my discovery; and it
being difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and
honourably entombed him in the fame place where
he departed, « ith as much ceremony as any Weljb
foat that has been interred about the high mountain
*enmenmoure.
1 think I was now in thetwentVfthird year of my
reign, and much easier were my thoughts than for-
merly, contriving several pretty amusements and di- .
versions, to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learnt to speak Eng-
HJb, and pronounce his words very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat toge-
ther after a very familiar manner, and he lived with
me no less than twenty-six years: My dog, who was
nineteen years old, sixteen years of which he lived
with me, died of mere old age: As for my cats,
they multiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill or
drive them into the woods, except two or three,
which
which became my particular favourites. Befides
these, I continually kept two or three household kids
about me which I did learn to feed out of my hand,
and two more parrots which would talk indifferently,
and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excellent as the
first, as not taking that pains with them. Several
sea fowls I had also, which having wounded, I Cut
their wings, and growing tame, they used to breed
among the low trees about my castle walls; all which
were very agreeable to me.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them L It was now the month of Decem-
ber, in the Southern solstice, and particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance in the
fields; when going out pretty early one morning,
before it was day-light, there appeared to me, from
the sea-shore, a flaming hght, about two miles from
me, at the east end of the island, where I had ob-
served some savages had been, as before, but not on
the other side; but, to my great affliction, it was on
my side of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements,' I returned directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, making all things look as
wild and natural as possibly J could. In the next.
place I put myself in a posture of defence, by loading
my muskets and pistols, and committing myself to
God's protection, resolving to defend myself till my
latest breath. After two hours space, impatient for
intelligence, I set my ladder up to the side of the
hill where there was a flat place; and then pulling
the ladder after me, ascended the top, where, laying .
myself on my belly, with my perspective glass, I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a small fire, eating,' as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes haled upon shore, wait-
not eafily ex press the consternation I was in at this sight
especially seeing them near me; but when f perceived
their coming must be always with the current of the
ebb, I became more easy in my thoughts, being ve-
ry sully convinced, that I might go abroad with secu-
rity all the time of flood, if they were not before
landed. And indeed this proved just as I imagined;
for no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle away,
but the tide made north-west. Before they went
off, they danced, making ridiculous postures and
gestures, for above an hour, all stark naked, but
whether men, or women, or both, I could not per-
ceive. When I saw them gone, I took^ two guns upon
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword banging by my side, I
went to the hill, where at first I made a discovery
of these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which, with the rest, were making over to the main
land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies, appeared in
my sight; and so, fired with indignation, I was sully
resolved to be revenged of the first that came there,
tho' I lost my life in the execution. It then appeared
to me that the visits, which they make to this Island,
were not very frequent, it being fifteen months before
they came again; all this time I was very unefffy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions I had of their
surprising me unawares: nor dared I offer to fire a
gun on that side of the island where they used to ap-
pear, lest, taking the alarm, the savages might re-
turn with many hundred canoes,and then God knows
in what manner I should have made my end : And
thus I was a year or more, before I ever saw any of
these devouring cannibals again.
But to wave this discourse for a while, the follow-
ing accident demands your attention, which for a
. while eluded the force of my thoughts in. revenging
myself on those heathens.
It was the 16th of May (according to my woodesl.
calendar) that the wind blew exceeding hard, accom-
panied with abundance of lightning and thunder all
T that day, and succeeded by a very stormy night.
What.occasioned this I could not imagine; but as
the seeming anger of the heavens made me have re-
course to the Bible, whilst I was seriously pondering
upon it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of %
gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean.
Such an unusual surprize made me start up in a mi-
nute, when, with my ladder, ascending the moun-
tain as before, that very moment a flash of fire pre-
saged the report of another gun, which I presently
heard, and found it was from that part of the sea
where the current drove me away. I.could not then
think otherwise, but that this must be a (hip in dis-
tress, and that these were the melancholy signals for
a speedy deliverance. Jndeed, great was my sorrow,
upon this occasion, but altogether vain and fruitless.
. However, 1 brought together all the dry wood that
was at hand, and, making a handsome pile, set it on
fire on the hill. Certain it was, that they plainly
perceived itj by their firing another gun, as soon as
it began to blaze, and after that several more from the
same quarter. All the night long did I keep up this
fire; and when the air cleared up, I perceived some-
thing a great way at sea directly east, but could not
distinguish what it was, even with my glass, by rea-
son the weather was so very foggy out at sea. How-
ever, keeping my eyes directly sixt upon it, and per-
ceiving it not to stir, I presently concluded it must be
a ship at anchor: And so very hasty 1 was to be sa-
tisfied, that, taking my gun, I. went to the south-east
I part
part of the island, to the same rocks where I had heen
formerly drove away by the current; in which time
the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my great
sorrow, 1 perceived the wreck of a ship cast away
upon those hidden rocks, which 1 found when I was
out with my boat; and which, by making a kind of
an eddy, were the occasion osmy preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's ruin:
For undoubtedly this ship had been driven on them
in the night, the wind blowing strong at. E. N. E.
Now, had they perceived the island, as I could not
imagine they. did, certainly, instead of firing their
guns for help, they might rather have ventured in
their boat, and saved themselves that way. Then I
thought, that perhaps they had done so, upon seeing
my fire, and were cast away in the attempt; for I
perceived no boat in the ship. Again, 1 imagined,
that perhaps they had another vcssel in company,
which, upon signal, saved their lives, and took the
boat up: Or lastly, that the boat might be driven
into the main ocean, where these poor creatures
might be in the most miserable condition. But as all
these conjectures were very uncertain, I could do
no more than commiserate their distress, and thar.k
God for delivering me, in particular, when so many
perished in the raging ocean.
When. I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, I could perceive no room to suppose
any of them saved: I cannot explain, by nny possible
force of words, what longings my foul felt upon this .
light, often breaking out in this manner: Oh! that
ihcre had been but two or three, nay even one person
saved, that we might have lived together, conversed
with and comforted one another! And so much were
mv defires moved, that when !repeated these words,
Ob! that there bad heen but one! my hands would
so clench together, and my fingers press the palms of
my hands so close, that had any soft thing been be-
tween
tween, they would have crushed it involuntarily,
while"my teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time for
me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I ne-
ver knew if any had been saved out of this ship or
not; and had only the affliction some time aster, to.
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at the
end of the island, which was next the shipwreck:
There was nothing on Ijim but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-knee5 d linnen drawers, and a blue
linnen shirt; but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of. In his pocket were two pieces of
eight and a tobacco-pipe, the last of which. L per-
fcrred much more than I did the sirst. And now the
calmness of the sea tempted me to venture.out in my
boat to this wreck, not only to get something neces-
sary out of the ship, but perhaps some living creature
might be on board, whose life 1 might preserve.. This
had such an influence upon my mind, that immediate-
ly I went home, and prepared every thing necesikry
for the voyage, carrying on board my boat, provisions
of all forts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh wa-
ter, and a'compass. So putting osF, 1 paddled the
canoe along the shore, till I came at last to the N.K.
part of the island, from whence 1 was to launch into
the ocean; but here the currents run so violently,
a;id appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me; foreseeing that if 1 was driven into any of these
currents, 1 might be carried not only out of the
reach or sight of the island, but even inevitably lost
in the boiling surOTs of the ocean.
So oppressed was 1 at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprize,. sailing to a little creek cn the
/hore, where stepping out, i sat me down on a rising
hill, very pensive and thoughtsul. I then perceived,
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on, which
rftade it impacticable for me to go out for lo many
i 2 hours.
hours. To be more certain, how the sets of the
titles or currents lay when the flood came in, i as-
cended a higher.piece.of ground, which overlooked
the sea both ways, and here I found, that as the
current of the ebb.set out close by ^he south point
of the island, so the current. of the.flood set.in dose
by the shore of the north side; and all that I had
to do, was, to keep to the north of the island in my
return.
That night I reposed my self in my canoe, covered
with my watch coat instead of a blanket, the hea-
vens being my tester. I set out with the first of the
tide sull north, till I felt the benefit of the current,
which carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not
With such impetuosity as.hefore, as to take from me
all government of my canoe.; so that in two hours
time I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
in a most melancholy manner. It seemed to be a
Spanijb veflel by its building, stuck fast between two
rocks; her stern and quarter beaten to pieces with
the sea; her main-mast and fore-mast were brought
©ffby the board; as much as to fay, broken short
eff. As I approached nearer, L perceived a dog on
board, who perceiving me coming, yelped and cried,
and no sooner did 1 call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of v. hich I took him al-
most famished with hunger and thirst: So that when.
I gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf could
devour it more greedily; and he drank to that de-
gree of fresh water, that he would have burst himself
.had I susfered him. .
The first sight I met v/jth in the ship, were two
men drowned.in the cook-room or fore-caftle, en-
closed in one another's arms: Hence I very probably.
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in, and
over her, that the men, not being able to bear it,
were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves.
waves. There were several casks of liquor, whe-
ther wine or brandy, I could not be positive, which
Jay in the lower hold, as were plainly perceptible by
the ebbing out of the water, yet were two large sor
me to pretend to meddle with: Likewise I perceived
several chests, which I thought might belong to .the
seamen ; two of them [ got into my boat, without
examining then what were in them. Now had the
stern of the ship been sixed, and the fore-part bro-
ken off, certain I am I should have made a very pros-
perous voyage; since by what I after found in these
two chests, I could. not otherwise conclude, but that
the ihjp must have abundance of wealth on board:
nay, if I must guess by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres or the
Rio de la Plata, in the southern part of America, be-
yond the Brastls, to the Havanah, in the gulph of
Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. What became of
the rest of her sailors, I could not certainly tell;
and all her riches signified nothing at that time to.
.any body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons, sull of liquor, which with some
labour I got into my boat: In a cabin were several
muskets, which I let remain there, but. took away
with me a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it; I took also a fire-shovel and tongs,
two brass kettles, a copper potto make chocolate,
and a grid-iron, all which were extreamly liecell'ary
to me, especially the fire-shovel and . tongs. And
fo with this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I
came away, the tide serving for that purpose; and
that the same evening, about an hour within night,
1 attained the island, after the greatest toil and fa-
tigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my wearied jimte in the
boat; resolving the next morning to harbour what
1 had gotten \n my new found subterraneous grotto,
I J. " and
.and not carry my Cargo home to my antient castle.
When I had refreshed myself, and got all my
esfects on shore, I proceeded to examine the parti-
culars : And so tapping the cask, I found the liquor
to be a kind of rum, but not like what we had at the
Brasils, nor indeed near so good. At the opening
of the chest, several things appeared very usesul to
me : For instance, I found in one a very fine case of
bottles, containing the finest and best sorts of cordial
waters: Each bottle held about three pints, curiously
tipt with filver. I found also two pots full of the
choicest sweet-meats, and two more which the water
had utterly spoiled. There were likewise several good
'shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of linnen white handkerchiess and coloured
neckcloths, the former of which were absolutely ne-
cessary for wiping my face in a hot day ; and in the
till, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about
'eleven hundred in all; in all of which, decently
wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars and wedges of the fame
metal, which I believe might weigh near a pound.
In the other chest, which I guessed to belong to the'
gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances that at-
tended it, I only . found some cloaths of very little
valuje, except about two pounds of fine glazed pow-
der, in three flasks, kept, as 1 believe, for charging
their fowling-pieces on any occasion. So that on
the whole, I had no great advantage by this voyage:
The money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless
and unprofitable, all v/hiph I would have freely parted
.with for two or three Englijh pair of shoes and stock-
ings ; things that for many years I had not worn;
.except lately those which I had taken off the feet of
those unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not sq good as Englt/b shoes,' either for ease or
service: And having :found in the seamen's .chest
;'bout fifty pieces of eight in rials, but no gold, I
suppose what I took from the first belonged to an
oÆcer, to whom this seemed to have a much inferior
person for its owner. Well, the money as despica-
ble as it seemed, I likewise lugged to my cave, laying
it up securely as I did the relt of my cargo. After I
had done all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing
or paddling her along till I came to my old harbour,
where I caresully laid her up, and so made the best
of my way to my castle. When I arrived there, every
thing seemed safe and quiet; so that now my only
business, was to repose myself after my wanted man-
ner, and take care of my domestic affairs. But
tho' I might have lived very easy, as wanting for no-
thing absolutely needsul, yet still I was more vigilant
than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did it was to the Eajl part of
the island, where I was well .assured that the savages
never came, and where I might not be troubled to
carry that heavy load of weapons for my defence,
as I was obliged to do if I went the other way.
Two years did Llive in this anxious conditions in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was silled with nothing but projects and de-
signs how I might escape. from this island: And so
much were my wandering thoughts bent on a ram-
bling disposition, that had I the same boat that i went
from Sake in, I should have ventured once more to
the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
1 .But certainly I was .an unhappy instance of that
.part of mankind, who made themselves wretched by
their dissatisfaction with the station which God has
placed them in: For, not to take a review of my pri-
mitive condition, and my father's excellent advice,
the contrary to which was, as I may fay, my original
.fin, my following.mistakes,'' of the fame niture,
had been the means of my present unhappy station.
What business had I to leave a settled fortune, and
well stocked plantation, improving and increasing,
where
where by this time I might have been worth a hun-
dred thousand mbidores, to turn supra cargo to
Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when time and patience
would have so much enlarged our stock at home, as
to be able to employ those, whose more immediate
business it was to fetch them home, even to our
doors?
But as this is very common the fate of young
heads, so as a serious reflection upon the folly of it,
ordinarily attends the exercise of suture years, when
the dear-bought. experience of time is so much re-
. pen ted of. Thus it was with me at that season; but
notwithstanding what I had, or might suffer upon
these occasions, the thoughts of my deliverance
ran so strongly in my mind, as seemed to check all the
dictates of my poor reason and philosophy. And
now to usher my kind reader, with greater pleasure
to the remaining part of my relations, 1 flatter my-
self it will not "be taken amiss to give him an account
of my first conceptions on the manner of escaping,
and upon what foundation I laid out my foolish
. schemes. ...
I must now suppose myself retired to my castle af-
ter my late voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up
and secured, as usual, and my condition in the
same manner as before, except being richer; tho' I
had as little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru
had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came among
them. One night in March, being the rainy season,
in the four and twentieth year of this my solitude, I
was laying on my bed awake, very well in health, with-
. out distemper, pain or uncommon uneasiness, either
of body or mind; yet for all this, I could not com-
pose myself to sleep the night long. All this tedious
i w hils, it is impoilible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head: I traced quite over the
whole history of my life in miniature, from my ut-
. most remembrance of things, till I came to this island;
and then proceeded to examine every "action and pas-
sage that had.occurred, since I had taken possession of
my kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter, I
was comparing my happy posture of affairs in . the;
begining of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear
and concern, since I discovered the print of a foot
in the sand; that while I continued free without no-
tions, I was incapable of forming any dreadsul ap-
prehensions; tho' I ought rather to be thanksul for
the knowledge of my danger, since then it was the.
greatest happiness to have sufficient time to provide for
my reflection: How stupendous is the goodness of
providence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that while.
men walk in the midst of so many dangers, they are
kept serene and calm, by having the event of things
hid from their eyes, and knowing nothing at all of
those many dangers that surround them, till perhaps
they are diffipated and vanished quite away.
And when I came more particularly to consider of
the real danger I had for so many years escaped; how
I had walked about in the greatest security and tran-
quillity at a time, perhaps when even nothing but
the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the common ap-
proach of night, had only. interposed between me and
the destructive hands of the cannibals, who would»
devour me with as good an appetite as I would a pi-
geon or curlew. Surely all this, I fay, could not but
make me sincerely thanksul to my great preserver,
whose singular protection I acknowledged with the
greatest humility, and without which I must inevi-
tably have fallen into the cruel hands of these de-
vourers.
Thus having discussed these thoughts in the clear-
est manner, according to my weak understanding, I
next proceeded to consider the wretched nature of
these destroying savages, by seeming, tho' with great
reverence, to inquire why God IhouJd. give up any
of his creatures to such inhumanity, even to brutali-
ty itself, to devour its own kind? But as this was
rather matter of abstruse speculation, it better became
me to enquire, what part of the world these wretches
lived in; how far off the coast wSs from whence they
came; why they ventured over so far from home .,
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
Tcould not order myself, and my business so, that I
might be as able to attain their country, as they were
to ccme to my kingdom.
Never had I the least thoughtshow I should ma-
nage myself when 1 came thither ; what would become
of me if 1 fell into the hands of the savages; or how
I should escape from them if they made an attempt
upon me. And supposing I mould fall into their
power,'what could I do for provision, or which way
mould I bend my course? Now tho' these things did
exprefi* the greatest horror and consusion imaginable,
yet still 1. looked upon my present condition the most
miserable that possible could be, and that nothing could
be worse, except death. For (thought I) could i but
attain the shore of the main, i might perhaps meet
with seme relief, or coast it along, as 1 did with my
boy Xury on the African shore, till I came to some
inhabited country, v. here I might meet with some re-
lief, or fall in with some christian ship that might
take me in; and if I failed, why then I could but
meet with death, whici; would put an "fend to all my
miseries. But yet I mult here note, that aU this was
the sruit cf a distempered mind, an impatient.temper,
made desperate, as it were, by long continuance of
the troubles and the disappointments 1 had met with
in"the wreck, where I hoped to have found some liv-
ing person to speak to, by v hom I might have known
iiv what.plucc I was, and of the probable means of mv
deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were agitat-
ed, my resignation to the will of heaven was entire-
ly suspended; so that I had no power to fix my mind
to
to any thing but the project of a voyage to the
Main. And indeed so much was I inflamcd'upon this
account, that it set my blood into a serment,. and
my pulse beat high as tho' I had been in a fever; till
nature being, as it were, fatigued and exhausted with
the very thoughts of it, made me submit myself to a
silent repose.
Certainly it is very strange, that I did not dream of
what I was so intent upon; but instead of which,
my mind roved on a quite different thing, altogether
foreign to it. I dreamt, that as I wa: istuing from
my castle one morning, as customary, . pei celv J up-
on the shore two caiioes, and eleven sr.va0-s coming to
land, who had brought with "thi m anoHer Indian,
whom they designed to n.akt .^..rrice of, in order
. to devour: But justas tncy \'t.i. ».,a;^ to give the fa-
tal blov , metheugnt thr poor cid'i^ned Victim jumpt
away, and ran dirtctiy into a iittle thicK grove be-
fore my fortification, to al scond from his enemies;
when perceiving that the others did not follow him
that w ay, I appeared to him; that he humbly laic I'd
down before me, seeming to pray for my assistance;
upon which I shewed him my ladder, made him ascend,
carried him to my cave, and he became my servant;
and when I had gotten this man, I said to myself, now
surely I may have some hopes to attain the main land;
for this fellow will serve me as A pilot, tell me what
to do, and where I must go for provisions; what places
to shun, . what to vertture to, and what to escape.
But when I awak'd, and found all these inexpressible
impressions of joy entirely vanish'd, 1 fell into the
greatest dejection of spirits imaginable..
Yet after all, I made this conclusion, that my only.
way of escaping was to get a savage; and after I had
ventur'.d my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural fense he might have of
such a preservation, might inspire him with a lasting
gratitude and most sincere affection. But then this
objection^
objection reasonably interpos'd: How can I esfect this
(thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of 'em,
and kill them all f Why should I proceed on such a
desperate attempt, which before my scruples hadTug-
gested to me were unlawsul, and made my heart
tremble at the thoughts ofso much blood, tho' it
were a means to procure my deliverance! And tho'
I might, according to my reason, suppose that these
men were the real enemies to my life, and would de-
vour me, was it in their power, so that it was self-
preservation in the highest degree, to free myself from
this dread of life, by acting in my own defence, as
if they were actually assaulting me: Tho' all these
things, I fay, scem'd to me to be of the greatest
weight; yet, as I just said before, the dreadsul
thoughts of shedding human blood, struck such a
terror to my soul, that it was a long time before I
could reconcile myself.
But how far will the ardency of desire prompt us
on? For notwithstanding the many disputes and per-
plexities I had with myself about it, right or wrong,
I was resolved to get one of these savages into my
hands, let it cost what it would, or lose my life in
the attempt. Thus inspired with a firm resolution,
all my wits were at work, in the next place, to find
out what methods 1 should take to answer my design;
and this indeed was very disficult to resolve on. Since
then I could not pitch upon any probable means for
it, I resolved continually to be in a vigilant posture, to
perceive when the savages came on shore,and so leave
the rest of the event,. let the opportunities offer as
they would.
Such was my sixed resolution, and accordingly I
set myself upon the scout, as often as I could, till
such time as I was heartly tired of it. I waited for
above a year and a half, the greatest part of which
time I went out to the west end, and south West cor-
ner of the island, almost every day, to see for canoes,
none
sone appeared, This was a very great discouragement,
at which I was very much concerned; yet never did
this wear off the edge of my desire to the thing;
but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager
I was for it: In a word, I was never at first so caresul
to shun the loathed sight of these savages, as Iwas now
eager to be upon them. Besides, I thought myself
sufficiently able to manage one, two or three savages
if I had them, so as to make them my entire slaves,
to do whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent
their being able at any time to do me a mischief.
Many a time did I use to please myself with this affair,
with long and ardent expectations; but nothing yet
presented, all my deep projected schemes and numer-
ous fancies vanished away, as tho' while I retained
- thpse thoughts, the decree of providence was such,
that no savages wen; to come near me.
It was about a year and a half, that as I was most
seriously musing of sundry ways how I should attain
my end, one morning early I was very much surprised
by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore toge-
ther on my side the island, and the creatures that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight. Such
a number of them disconcerted all my measures ; for
seeing so many boats, each of which. would contain
six, and sometimes more, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to order my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed: Upon which
much discomforted and perplexed, I lay still in my
castle; however I put myself in the same posture for
an attack, that I had formerly provided against, and .
was ready to enter upon an engagement, should they
attempt it. But when 1 had waited a long while, till
such time as my impatient temper would let me bear it
no longer, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
as usual ascended up to the top of the hill at two stages;
however, standing that my head did not appear above
.the bill so that by any means they could not perceive
K me 1
me ., and here I observed by the assistance of my per-
spective glass, no less than thirty in number around a
sire, feasting upon what meat they had dressed: How
they cooked it, or what it was, I could not then per-
fectly tell; but they were all dancing and capering
about the flames, using many frightsul, and barba-
rous gestures.
But while with a curious eye I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits sunk within me, when I per-
ceived them drag two miserable creatures from the
boats to act a fresh the dreadsul tragedy, as I supposed
they had done before. It was not long before one of
them fell upon the ground, knocked down as I sup-
posed, with a club, or wooden sword; for that was
their manner, while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their cookery,
and then fell to devour him as they had done the for-
mer, while the last unhappy captive was left by him-
self till such time as they were ready for him. The
poor creature looked round him with a wishsul eye,
trembling at the thoughts of death, yet seeing himself
a. little at liberty, nature that very moment, as it
were inspired him with hopes of life, that he started
away from them, and ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands directly to that part of the coast where
my ancient and venerable castle stood.
i You may imagine I was dreadsully affrighted upon
this occasion, when as I thought, thej pursued him
in a whole body, all runing towards my palace. And
now indeed I expected that part of my dream was go-
ing to be sulfilled, and that he would certainly fly to
my grove for protection; but for the rest of my dream
I could depend nothing on it, that the savages would
pursue him thither and find him there. However my
spirits beginning to recover, I still kept upon my
guard, when I plainly perceived there were but
three men out of the number, that pursued him^
and I was insinitely pleased with what swift-
ness
*esg the poor creature ran from his pursuers, gaining
much ground of them, that I plainly perceived,
could'he thus hold it for half an hour, there was not
the least doubt but he would save his life from the
power of his enemies. i
Between them and my castle there was a creek, that
very fame where I sailed into with all my effects from
the wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I
very much feared the poor victim would be taken, if
be could not swim for his escape: But soon was 1<sj&
out of pain for him when he made nothing of it tho'
at sull tide; but with. an intrepid courage, spurred
on by the sense of danger, he plunged into the flood,
swiming over in about thirty strokes, and then land-
ing, ran with the fame wondersul strength and swift?
ness as before. When the three pursuers came to
the creek, one of them, whom I perceived could
not swim, happily, for his part, returned back to his
company; while the others with as equal courage,
but much less swiftness, attained the other side, as
tho' th<j,were never resolved to give over their pursuit.
And now, or never, I thought was the time for me
to procure a servant, companion or assistant; and that
I was decreed by providence to be the instrument that
should save this poor creature's life. I immediately
descended my two ladders with the greatest expedition,
I took up my two guns, whi'en I said before were at
the bottom of them; and getting up again, with the .
fame haste towards the hill, I made nearer the sea: In a
word taking a short cut down the hill, I interposed"
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallowing aloud
to the latter, who venturing to look back, was no
doubt at first as much terrified at me as at them. I
beckoned to him with my hand to return back, in the
mean time slowly .advancing towards the pursuers;
when suddenly rushing on the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of. my piece, and laid him
K 2 slat
flat on the ground. I was very unwilling to fire lest
the rest should hear, tho* at that distance I question
whether they could or not; and being out of sight of
the smoak, they could not eafily have known what to
make of it. The other savage seeing his fellow fall,
stopt as if he had been amazed, when advancing to.*.
wards him, I could perceive him take his bow front
his back, and sixing an arrow to it, was preparing to
shoot at me, and without dispute might have lodged
the arrow in my breast, had I given him leave; but
in this absolutely necessary cause of self-preservation,
I immediately fired at him, and shot him dead, just
as his hand was going to draw the fatal string. All
thi? while the savage, who had fled before, stood still,
had the satisfaction to fee his enemies fall, or killed
as he thought, who designed to take away his life:
So affrighted was he with the sire and nolle of my
piece, that he stood, as it were, like Loss wife, fixt
and immoval;U. without fense, and without mo-
tion. / This made me hollow to him again, making
the plainest signs I could to him to draw nearer: I
perceived he understood these tokens, by his ap-
proaching to me a little way, when, as if afraid £
should kill him too, he stopt again. Several time*
did he advance, and as often stopt in this manner, till
coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling,
as if he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which
I looked upon him with a smiling countenance, and
still beckoning to him at length he come close to me,
kneeled down, kissed the ground, laid his head upon
it,' and taking me by my foot, set the same upon his.
head: And thisr as I understood afterwards, was a
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and making very much cf him, encouraged
him in the best manner'I could. But here my work-
was not yet finished; for I peveeiveti the savage whom
I knocked down, was not killed, but stunned with
the blo.Wi and. began to come to himself. Upop which
I pointed to my new servant and shewing him that
his enemy was not yet expired, he spoke some words
to me, but what I could not understand ; yet being the
first sound of a man's voice I had heard for above these
twenty five years, they were very pleasing to me.
But there was no time for reflection now, the wound-
ed savage recovering himself so far as to sit upon the
ground, which made my poor prisoner as much afraid
as before: To put him out of which fear I presented
my other gun at the man, with an intent to shoot
him; but my savage, for so I must now call him,
prevented my firing, by making a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side. No sooner did I grant his request, but away
he runs to his en.my, and at one blJw cut osf his
head, as dexteronfly as the most accomplished execu-
tioner in Germany could have done: For it seems these
creatures make use of wooden swords, made of hard.
wood, which will bear an edge, enough to cut osf
heads and arms at one blow. When this valorous
exploit was done, he came to me laughing, as a token
of triumph, delivered me' my sword again with
abundance' of surprizing gestures, laying it along^
with the bleeding and ghastly head of the Indian at my
feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant
conceived was the manntr of killing the savage at such
a distance v/ithout a bow and arrow: and such was
his longing defire to know it, that he first poinud to
the deid creature, and then made si .ns to mi io grant
him leave to go to him. L'pon which i bid him go,
and as well as 1 could made' h.m sensible i granted his
request. But when h. came there, iiow woncU i!u!ly
was h. stricken w;th amazen.ent! first he turned iim
oh one side, then on urother, v/er.deiing he i. uld
perceive no quantity of blooti, hi. biecd n inwardly:
And after lufHcKnilj admiring the wound die Luilct.
hael made in his breast, he tooK. up his bow ami ar-
rows,
rows, and came back again; upon which I turned to
go away, making many signs to him to follow, least
the rest,. miffing their companions, might .come in.
pursuit of him. And this I found he understood very.
well, bv his making me understand that his design
was to tury them, that it might not be seen if it hap-
pened; and which by signs again, I made him sensible
I very much approved of. Immediately he fell to
work, and never was grave-digger more dexterous
in the world than he was; for in an instant, as I
might fay, he scraped a large hole in the sand with his
hands,. sufficient to bury the first in, there he dragged
him, and without any ceremony covered him over.
In like manner he served the other: So that I am
sure no undertaker could be more expert in his busi-
ness, for all this was done in less than a quarter of
an hour. I then called him away, and instead of car-
rying him directly to my castle at first, I conveyed
him to my cave on the surther part of the Island:
And so my dream was not sulfilled in that particular,
that my grove should prove an assylum or sanctuary
to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, .undoubted-
ly must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by
that vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of.
]oy, that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave
him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water
to drink, of which feeding very chearsully, to his
exceeding refreshment, I made him a convenient bed
with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, (a
bed which I used myself sometimes) and then point-
ing to him made signs for him to lie down to sleep,.
upon which the poor creature went to take a welcome
repose.
Indeed he was a very comely handsome young fel-
low, extremly well made, with strait long limbs,
not too large; tall, and well shaped; and, as I could
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. His cpua-
;"'. tenance
tenance had nothing in it fierce and surly, but rather
a fort of majesty in his face; and yet, especially when
he smiled, he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European. His hair was not curled like wool, as
many of the Blacks are, but long and black, with the
most beautisul, yet careless tresses spreading over his
shoulders He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness iji hi*
eyes. His stein was not so tawny as the Virginians,
Brajilians, or other Americans, but rather of a bright
dun olive colour, that had something agreeable in it,
tho' not very easy to give a description of. His face
was round and plump, with a small nose, very dif-
ferent from the flatness of the negroes, a pretty small
mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well set, and
white as the driven snow. In a word, such hand-
some seatures, and exactly symetry in every part, made
me consider, that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince, no less gracesul and accomplished, than the
great Oroov.oko, whose memorable behaviour, and un-
happy contigencies of life, has charmed the world
both to admiration of his person, and compassion to
his sufferings.
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my hap-
piness centered in this, that I had now got a good ser-
vant, or companion, to whom, as he deserved, I was
resolved to prove a kind master, and lasting friend.
He had not, I think, slept above an hour, but he
awakened again, and while I was milking my goats
hard by, out he run, from the cave towards me in my
enclofaie, and laying himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made all the antick gestures
imaginable, to express his thanksulness to me for be-
ing his deliverer. I confess, tho' the manner of his
behaviour seemed to be ludicrous enough to occasion
laughter; yet I was very much moved at his affection
so that my heart melted within me, fearing he
might die away in excess of joy, like reprieved male-
sactorsi
factors; and then I was incapable either to let him
blood, or administer physic. And I wish many
christians would take example by th'is heathen, to
have a lasting remembrance of those great benefits
and deliverances they have received, by the kind me-
ditation and powersul interposition of their benefactors
and deliverers: And 1 should be glad also, if I hacl
no occasion to blame many, who instead of thank-
fully acknowledging these kind of favours and benefits,
rather abuse and contemn those good persons who
have been the principal instruments to save them from
destruction.
But leaving these very just reflections, I must re-
turn to the object that occasioned them: For my man,
to conclude the last ceremony of obedience, laid down
his head again on the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other foot upon his head, as he had done be-
fore, making all the signs of subjection, servitude and
submiffion irryfiaginable, to let me understand he
would serve me as long as his life endured. As I un-
derstood him in many things, I made him sensible I was
very well pleased with him; and in a little time I began
to speak to him, and learn him how to talk to me again.
In the first place I made him to understand his name
to be Friday, because it was upon that day I saved his
lift: Then i taught him to fay Majler, which 1 made
him sensible was to be my name. . I likewise learned
him to lay yes and no, and to know what they meant.
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while 1 drank it before^him, and sopt my
bread in it; and [ gave him a cake of bread, caus-
ing him to do the like, to which he readily consent-
ed, making sions of the greatest satisfaction ^imagi-
nable. _'
All thai night did I keep him there, but no sooner
did the n'ornini^ light appear, when i ordered him to
arise and come along with me, with certain tokens
that i would give him some cloaths like mine; at
i . which
which he seemei very glad, as being stark nakeM, not
so much as any thing to cover what ought to be con-
cealed. As we passed by the place where the two
men "had been interred, my man pointed directly to
their graves, shewing me the marks that he had made
to find them again; giving me to understand by signs,
that he should dig them up and devour them: Upon
which I appeared extremely displeased, expressed my
utmost abhorrence, made as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning him with my hand to
come away, which he did with the greatest reverence
aud submission. After this I conducted him to the top
of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages were
yet remaining there; but when I looked through my
perspective glass, I could fee no appearance of them,
nor of their canoes, so that it was very evident they
never minded their deceased companions whom we had
slain, which if they had, they would surely have search-
ed for, or left one boat behind for them to follow," af-
ter they retuq&ed to their pursuit.
But still my curiosity and desire of satisfaction ani-
mating my spirit with fresh courage, I took my man
Friday with me, putting a sword into his hand, with
the bow and arrows at his back, which I perceived
he.could use very dexterously, causing him to carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself; and thus
equipped against all attacks, away we marched direct-
ly to the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, J was stricken with the usual hor-
ror at so dreadsul a spectacle; whilst Friday indeed
was no way concerned about it; being, no doubt, in
his turn like one of these devourers. Here lay several
human bones, there several pieces of mangled flesh,
half eaten, mangled and scorched; whilst streams of
blood ran .promiscuously as waters from a fountain..
As I was musing in this dreadsul sight, Friday took all
the pains he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four prisoners to
feast
feast upon, three of which they had eaten, and
that as he was the fourth, pointing to himself: That
there having been a bloody battle between them and
his great king, in the just defence of whom he was
taken prisoner, with many others; all which were.
carried to several places to be devoured by their con-
querors, and that it was his misfortune to be brought
hither by these wretches, for the fame purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set oa
fire, and so burnt them t© ashes: And still I found
my man retained the nature of a cannibal', having a
hankering ftomaek after some of the flesh: But such.
an extream abhorrance did I express at the last appear-
ance of it, that he durst no otherwise than conceal j.
sot I made him very sensible that if he offered any such.
thing I would' certainly shoot him- '^_
All this being done, I carried my man with me to
my castle; and then I gave him a pair of linen.
drawers, which I had taken out of the poor gunner's
chest before-mentioned; and which, with a little al-
teration, fitted him very well: In the next place I
made him a jerkin of goatsi-fkin, such as my skill!
was able to manage, tho' I thought my self then a to-
lerable good taylor. I gave him also a cap, which
I made of a hare-skin, very convenient and fashion-
able. Thus being clothed tolerably well, my man
was no less proud of his habit, than I was in seeing
him in it. Indeed he went very aukwardly in these
things .at first, the drawers being too heavy on his
thighs, not used to bear any weight, and the sleeves
of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside
of his arms; but a little easing them, where he com-
plained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at
length. he took to them very well.
My next concern was where I should lodge him;
and that I might do very well by him, and yet be per-
'. . ' fectly
sectly easy myself, i erected a tent for him In the va-
cant place between my two fortifications, in the in-
side of\the last, and outside of the first: And as
there was an entrance or door in my caVe, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to open on
the inside. I barred it up in the night time, taking
ih my ladders too ;' 'so that was my marl to prove
treacherous, there would be no way to come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much jioise in getting over, that it must needs wake*i
me i .for my first wall had now a complete roof over
it of long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the mountain, which was again laid
crose with smaller sticks instead of laths, and thatch-
ed over a great thickness' with the rice straw, which
was as strong as reeds; and at the hole of the place,
left on purpose to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which if it had been at-
tempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
hut have fallen down and made a great noise; and as
to my weapons, every night I took them all to my
bed's side.'
But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never master had more sincere, faithsul and lov-
ing servant than Friday proved to me, without passions,
sullenness or designs, perfectly obliging and engaging:
His affections were as much tied to me, as those of a
child to his parents; and I might venture to fay, ha
Would have sacrificed his life for the saving of mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever. And indeed the many
testimonies he gave me of this, very sufficiently con-
vinced me, that I had no occasion to use these pre-
cautions. And here I could not but reflect, with great
Wonder, that however it has pleased the almighty in
his providence, and in the government of the crea-
tion, to take from so great a part of the world of hi.1
creatures, the noblest uses to which their faculties,
*ad -the powers of their souls are adapted; yet that
lie has bestowed upon them the fame reason, affections,
sentiments of kindness and obligation, passions of
resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capa-
cities of doing and receiving good, that he has giving
us; and that when he is gracioufly pleased to osfer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as" ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper uses
for which they were bestowed, than we are sometimes.
These thoughts would make me very melancholy,
especially when I considered how mean a use we make
of all these, even though we have these powers en-
lightened by the holy spirit of God, and by the know-
ledge of his word, as an addition to our understand-
ing; and why it has pleased the heavenly wisdom to
conceal the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of fouls, who would certainly make a much
better use of it, than mankind generally does at this
time. And these reflections would sometimes lead
him so far, as to invade the sovereignty of providence,
and, as it were, arraign the justice of such arbitary
disposition of things, that should' obscure that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
like duty from all. But I closed it up, checking my
thoughts with this conclusion; first, that we were
ignorant of that right and law by which these mould
he condemned; but that, as the almighty was nece£.
sarily, and by the nature of his essence, infinitely
just and holy; so it could not be otherwise, but that
if these creatures were all destined to absence from
himself, it was on account of sinning against that light
which, as the scriptue says, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their conscience woulcf acknow-
ledge to be just, though the first foundation was not
discovered to us; And, secondly, that still as Wf are
the clay in the hand of the potter, no vesstl could
thus say to him, Why hast thou fashioned me after
this manner i
I
my castle, but my chief design was, how I should
bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding; and
to take from him that inhuman relish he, by nature,
had been accustomed to, J thought it my duty to let him
taste other flesh; which might the rather tempt him to
the fame abhorrence I so often expressed against their
accursed way of living. Upon which, one morning,
I took him out with me, with an intention to kill a kid
out of the flock, and bring it home and dress it: But
as I was going, I perceived a (he-goat lying down in the
shade and two young kids fitting by her. Immediate-
ly I catched hold of my man Friday, and bidding him
ltand still, and not stir, I presented my piece, and
shot one of the kids. My poor servant, who had at
a distance perceived me kill his adversary, and yet did
not know by what means, or how it was done, stood
trembling and surprised, and looked so amazed, that
I thought he would have sunk into the earth. He
.did not see the kid I aimed at, or beheld I had killed it,
but ript up his waistcoat to see if ke was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; so coming
to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly pronouncing
many things which I did'aafenot understand, the mean-'
hig of which at length I perceived was, that I would
not take away his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to see him in that
^condition where nature is upon the severest trial, when
the immediate hand os death is ready to put for ever a
period to this mortal life: And indeed so much com-
. passion had I for this creature, that it was with diffi-
culty I refrained from tears. But however as another
fort of countenance was necessary, to convince him
that I would do him no harm, I took him smiling
by the hand, then laughed at him, and pointing to
the kid which I had slain, made signs to him to fetch
it, which accordingly he did. No less curious was
&e in viewing how the creature was killed, than he
L had
had been before in beholding the Indian; while he
was admiring it, I charged inj gun again, and pre-
sently perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within Ihot; ami therefore to Jet Friday
understand what I was going to do, I called him to
me again, pointing at the fowl, which I found to be
a parrot. I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bad him
look, when immediately he law the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstanding ajl
I had said to him; and the more confounded he was,
"because he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. Undoubtedly, a tiling so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it, far or near, either to
man or beast, must certainly create the greatest
astonishment to one who never had heard of such a
thing in his whole life: And really his amazement
continued so long, that had I allowed it, he would
have prostrated himself before rae and my gun, with
the greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun in
particular, he would not so much as seiffer his nngers
to touch i t for several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if
the fenceless piece had understood and answered him:
All this I could perceive him do, when he thought my
back was turned; the chief intent of which was, to
desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to un-
derstand. ,
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from those .comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; But when his astonishment was a little over,
I made' tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot that
I had shot, which he accordingly did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason the bird not being
tjuite dead, had fluttered some way farther from the
place where he fell. In the mean time as he was
looking for her, I took the advantage of charging my
gun again, that I might be ready for another mark
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening too'c off the skin, and divided the carcase as
well as I could- Part of this flesh. I stewed, or boiled,
in a pot I had for this occasion. And then spreading.
my table, I lat down, giving my man some to eat too, -
who was wondersully pleased, and seemed to like it
rcry well j. but what was most surprising to him, was
to fee me eat salt with. it * Upon which he made me
to understand, that the salt was very bad for me; when
putting a little into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate
it in such a manner as to spit and sputter at it, awl
then washed his mouth with fresh water i But to shew
him, how contrary his opinion was to mine, I put
some meat in my mouth without salt,. and feigned
to spit and sputter as much for the want. of it, as he
had done at it: Yet all this proved of no signification
to Friday : And it was a long while before he could
endure salt in his meat or broth, and ev«n then, but
a very small quantity.
Thus having fed him susficiently with boiled meat
and broth that time, the next day I was r«solved to,
feast him with a roasted piece of the kid. And having
no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use of
that common artifice, which many of the people of
England have; that is, to set two poks upon. each
side of the fire, and one cross on the top, hanging the
meat thereon with a string, and so turning round con-
tinually,. roast it, as we read bloody tyrants have cruel-
ly roasted martyrs. This practise caused great admi-
ration in my man Friday^ which is another-guesi
way, to what the barbarous savages were accustomed^
But when he came to taste the sweetness and tender-
Hess of the slesh, he exprest his entire satisfaction in
above a thousand different ways.. And as I could
not but understand his meaning, you may.be sure I
was wondersully pleased; especially when he made;
L. z "it
it also very plain to me, that he wpuld never, whilst"
he lived eat man's flesh more.
Well, now it was high time I should set my ser-
vant to work; and so the next day I put him to beat
out some corn, and sift it in the same manner as I
had done before. And really the fellow was very
quick and handy in the execution of any thing I or-
dered him to go about. I made him understand that
it was to make bread for us to eat, and after let him fee
me make and bake it: In short, he did every thing as
I ordered him, in a little time, as well as I could do it
myself.
When I considered, that I had two mouths to feed
instead of one, I was necessarily obliged to think that,
in consequence thereof, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of com
than I commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a bigger piece of land, fencing it in the same
manner as I had done before; in the execution.of which
I must give Friday this good word, that no man coul4
work more hard or willingly than he did: And when
I made him sensible that it was for bread to serve Kim
as well as me; he then very passionately made me
understand, that he thought I had much more labour
on me on his account alone, than I had for myself;
and that no pains or diligence should be wanting iri
him, jf I would but direct him in those works wherein
he might succeed.
. I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant year I ever had in the Island: For, after some time,
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of those things which I was wont to call for,
and the places where I used to fend him. So that my
long filent tongue, which had been useless so many
years, except in an exclamatory manner, either for
deliverance or blessings, now began to be occupied,
in teaching and talking to my man Friday; for in-
deed I had such a singular' satisfaction in the fellow
. himself^
Himself, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned ho-
nesty appear more and more to me every day, that I
*eally began entirely to love the creature: And for his
part I believe there .was no love lost, and that his
nature had been more charmed with my exceeding
kindness, and his affections more placed upon me,
than upon any other object whatsoever among.the Bar-
barians. But still I had a great mind to try if he had
any hankering inclination to return to his own country
again: And by this time having learned him Englijh so
well, that he could give me tolerable answers to any
questions which I demanded, I asked him, Whether
that nation^ to. which he belonged, never conquered
in battle I This question made Friday smile, and to
which. he. answered, Tes, yes,. we. always fight the bet-
ter; as much as to lay, they always got thVbetter in?.
fight. Upon which we proceeded on the following.
discourse.. You: say, said I, that . you always sight.
the better; why then, Friday^. how. came you to be.
taken prisoner ?i
Friday.. Butfor all that my nation.beat much-
Master. How,. say you,. beat!. if your nation beat
tlwm, how came you to be taken. ?.
Friday, They more many mans than'my nation'iit
the place where me was; they. take one,. two, three,
and me: My nation much. over beat them ia the yond~
*r place, where me no was; there my nation. mans
beat one,. two, three great tousand'..
Master.. Then why did not your menrrecoveE you
from the hands of your enemies h
Friday. They run, one,. two. or three,. and me;
they make all go in the canoe*;. my nation have no
eanoo that time.; /
Master. It's *ery wels,. Friday:.. But what does
.your nation do with die prisoners they take? What
do they carry them away,. and. eat them, as these
have done i:
L 1 Friday.
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans tooj tea
op all.
Master, To what place do they carry them to b»
devoured I
Friday, Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.
Master. And have you been with diem here Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here: (pointing to the North
Weft of the Island, being the side where they used
to land.)
Thus having got what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the canibals, having been formerly
among the savages, who used to come on shore on
the farthest part of the Island, upon the same bloody
occasions as he was brought here for: And some time
after I carried him to that place where he pointed j;
and.no sooner did he come there but he presently knevr
the ground, signifying to me, that he was once there,.
when they ear up twenty men, two women and a
young child. But .as he could not explain the num-
ber in Englijh, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them.
This passage I have the rather mentioned, because
it led to things more important and usesul for me to
know: For aster I had this satisfactory discourse with
him, my next question was, how far it was from the
Island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not
.often lost in the ocean? to which he answered, there
. was no danger, no canoes ever lost .„ but that after a
little way out to the sea, there was a strong current,
and a wind always one way in the afternoon. This
I thought at firlt to be no more than the sets of the
tide, of going out, or coming in; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draft and
reflux of the mighty river Orgonoko, in the mouth.
or gulph of which I imagined my kingdom lay; anil
that the land which I perceived to the W. and N. W;
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north of the
river. A thousand questions (if that would satisfy me)
did I ask Friday about the nature of the country, the
sea, the coasts, the inhabitants, and what nations
were nearest them : 'To which questions, the poor
fellow declared all he knew, with the greatest open-
ness and utmost sincerity. When I demanded of hirst
the particular names of the various' nations of his
sort of people, he could only answer me in general,
that they were called Caribbe. Hence it was I consi-
dered, that these must be the Caribbees, so much takea
notice of by our maps to be on that part of America's
which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonokt
to Gutania, and so on to St. Martha. Then Friday
proceeded to tell me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, as much as to fay, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, such as I was, pointing to
my whiskers, and that they had killed much mans*
I was not ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards
treated these creatures ., so that I presendy concluded
it must be them, whose cruelties had spread through-
out America, to be remembered even to. succeeding
generations. '.'i. . . :.
Well, you may.be sure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information of my man had let me
to, was very comfortable to me, and made me so cu-
rious as to ask him, how I might .depart from this
Island, and get among those white men ? he told me,
yes, yes, 1 night go in two canoes. In twa canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean? surely he means
.one for himself and another for me; and if not, how
.must two canoes hold me, without being joined, and
then put one part of my body in one^'and the other
in t'other? and indeed it was a long while before I un-
derstood his meaning, which was, that it must be a
large boat as big as two canoes, able to bear wish th*
waves, and not so liable to be overset as a small one
must have been.
I believe there is no state of life but what may be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part to
make it so. He is not the happiest man that has the
most riches, but he that is content with what he hath.
Before I had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him; and now I enjoyed the happy benefits
of him, I retained the fame thoughts for want of »
deliverance from a place of retirement, ease and
plenty, where providence had sufficiently blessed me r
In a word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an opportunity
to make my escape from this Ifland, and that this
poor savage might be a great surtherance thereto.
All the time since my man became so intelligent
as to understand and speak to me, I spared no pains
or diligence to instruct him, according to my poor
share of knowledge, in. the principles of religion,
and the adoration that he ought to.pay to the true
God. One time, as 'I very well remember, I asked
him who made him? at first, the innocent creature
did not understand what I meant, but rather thought
I asked himr who was his father? upon which I took
another way to make him sensible, by demanding of
.him an answer to this question. Friday, (said I) who
is it that made the sea, this ground whereon we walk,
and all these hills and woods which we behold? and
here indeed I did not miss of my i ntention ; for he told
me it was one old Benamuckee, (the God whom I
supposed'these savages adared). who. lived a great way
beyond all. But as for his attributes, poor Friday was
an utter. stranger to them. He coulddeseribe nothing
of this great person; and all that he could. fay was,
that he was very old, much older than the sea and
land, the moon, or the stars. Friday, (said I again)
if this great and. old person has made all things in the
worlds
world, how comes it to pass, that all things, as m# ..
in particular, do not adore and worship him? upon
this looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of
innocence, he replyed, master, all things say O t*
him, by which it may reasonably be supposed he meant
adoration. And where, said I, do the people of your
country go when they die? he answered, they all go
to Benamuckee. What, and those people that are
eaten up, do they go there? Said he, Benamuckee love
them dearly; we pray to Benamuckee in de Canoo, and
Benamuckee would love me, when dey eat a me all up.
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and
such made me sensible, that the true God is worship-,
ed, tho' under imperfect similitudes. And that the
false adoration which the heathens give to their ima-
. ginary deity, is as great an argument of the divine
j essence, as the most learned atheists, falsely so called^
can bring "against it: For God will be glorified in his
] .works, let the denomination. be what it will; and I
cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
-God should decree men to be damned for want of a
right'notion of faith, in a place where the power os
the Almighty has not permitted it to' be preached; and
therefore cannot but conclude, that since obedience
( is the best sacrifice, these poor creatures, acting by
* that light and knowledge which they are possessed
s ©f, may undoubtedly obtain.a happy salvation, th&*
not that enjoyment with Chrijl as his saints, con-
fessors and martyrs.
. / . But leaving these determinations aside, more fit for
the ablest divines than me to discuss, I began to in-
struct my servant in the saving knowledge of the
true deity; in which, the directions of God's hoi?
spirit assisted me. I lifted up my hands to heaven,
and pointing thereto, told him, that the great maker
of heaven and earth lived there; That as his infinite
power fashioned this world out of a consused chaotv
and made it in that beautisul frame which we behold
so
knowledge, sovereign greatness, and peculiar provi-
dence: That he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to. us, and take every
thing away from us: That he was a rewarder and
punisher of good and evil actions: That there was
nothing but what he knew, no thoughts so secret
but he could bring to light; And thus by degrees I
^opened his eyes, and described t.9 him the manner of
the creation of the world, the situation of paradice,
the transgressions of our first parents, the wicked-
ness of God's peculiar people, and the universal sins
^nd'abominations of the whole earth. When these
things were implanted in his mind, I told him, that
as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resolved
to destroy this world, 'till his son, Jesus Cbrijt, in-
terposed in our behalf, and to procure our redemp-
tion, obtained leave of his heavenly Father to come
down from heaven into the world, where he took
human nature upon him, instructed us in our way
to eternal life, and died as a sacrifice for£4t»Tins:
That he was now ascended into heaven, mediating
for our pardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining
all those benefits which we asked in his name, by
humble and hearty prayers, which were heard in the
throne of heaven. As very frequently I used to in-
culcate things into his mind, Friday one day told
me, that if our great God could hear us beyond the
sun, he must then surely be a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way, and yet could
not hear them, till they ascended the great mountains,
where he dwelt, to speak to him.. What, said I,
Friday, did you go thither to speak to him too? he
answered, no, they never went that were young
men; none but old men, called their Qcwokakee,
meaning the Indian priests, who went to fay O, (so
he called saying their prayers) and they returned back,
aud told them what Bmammku said. From hence \
could
"Cbcld not but observe how happy we christians are^
who have God's immediate revelation for our certain
;guide; and that our faith is neither misted, nor our
.season imposed upon, by any set of men resembling
these Indian impostors.
But to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Fri-
.day, I told him, that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountains to fay O to their
god Benamtickee, was an imposture And that their
bringing back an answer, was all a sham, if not
"worse; for if there was any such thing spoken ta
them, sometimes* it must proceed from an infernal
spirit. And here I thought it necessary to enter into
a long discourse with . him, which I did after this
manner: . u ..
..Friday,. ((aid I) you must know, that before this
world. was made, there was one almighty power,
existent before the beginning, by whose power all
.things were made, and whose majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of a hea-
venly nature,. fee created an gels and archangels, that
.is, glorious spirits resen;biing himself, to encompass
round his throne, eternally singing forth his praise in
the most heavenly sounds and divine harmony. And
.among this heavenly choir, Lucifer bore a great sway,
.as being then one of the particular favourites of these
.celestial abodes: .But he, contrary to that duty he
.owed bis heavenly sovereign, with unbounded ingra-
titude to his divine creator, not only envyed him
.*hat adoration which was his due, but thought to
usurp that thxone which he had neither power to
keep, nor title to pretend to. He raised a disien-
tion and civil war in heaven, and had a number of
angels to take his part. Unbounded folly; stupen-
dous pride; thus to hope for victory, and aspire above
his powersul Creator 1 the deity, not fearsul of such
an enemy, yet justly provoked at this rebellion, com-
œilfions his archangel St. Michael to lead forth the
heavenly
which was quickly perceived, by Satan's being over-
thrown, and the prince of the air, (for so the Devil
was called) with all his fallen angels, driven headlong
into a dismal place, which is called hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greatest attention, and he expressed a great satisfaction,
by his gestures, that God had sent the Devil into the
deep hole. And then J desired him to give great heed
to what I had surther to say.
No sooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and
the heavens clear of this arch-traitor, but the Father
speaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
his essence, yet equal to him in power and glory,
Let us make Man (said he) in our own image, after our
ewn likeness, Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over the
creatures in the world which we have created. And
these, he intended, should glorify him in heaven, ac-
cording to their obedienee in this state of probation on
earth, which was as it were to be the school to train
them up for those heavenly mansions. Now Satan,
feeing himself foiled, yet that Gcd had not taken
the power from him, as prince of the air, which
power heaven designed he should retain, whereby his
creatures might be tried; in revenge to the disgrace
he had received, he tempts Adam's wife, Eve, to taste
.of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which God
had forbidden. He appears to her in the shape of a
serpent, being then a most beautisul creature, and
tells her, That it was no better than an imposition
which God had put upon her and her husband, not
to cat of that fair fruit .which he had created; that
the taste thereof would make them immortal, like
Cod himself; and consequently as great and power-
ful as he. Upon which, she not only eat thereof her-
self, but made her husband eat also, which brought
them both .under the heavenly displeasure.
.. Here
Here Friday expressed a great concern: Ah! peer
mans! (cryed he) naughty IVomans! naughty Devil!
make God not love de mans, make man like Devil him-
fetf.
Friday, soid I, God still loved mankind; and tho*
the Devil tempted human nature so far, he would not
suffer him to have absolute power over them. I
have told you before of his tender love to his people,
till they, like Lucifer, disobeyed his commands and
rebelled against him ; and that even then, how Jesus
'Christ his only son came to save sinners. But still,
every man that lives in the world, is under tempta-
tion and trial. The Devil has yet a power, as prince
of the air, to suggest evil cogitations in our minds,
nnd prompt us on to wicked actions, that he might
glory in our destruction. Whatever evil thoughts we
have, proceeded from him. So thatGod, in this our dis-
tress, expects that we should apply ourselves to him by
fervent prayer for our speedy redress: He is not like
Senamuckee, to let none come near him but Oowoka-
kee; but suffers the people, as well as priests, to offer
themselves at his feet, thereby to be delivered from
the power and temptation of the Devil.
But tho' at sirst, my man Friday expressed some con-
gee™ at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not so
easy to imprint the right notions of him in his mind,
as it was about the divine essence of God: For there
nature assisted me in all my arguments to shew to him
plainly the necessity of a great siist cause, and over-
ruling governing power, a secret directing providence,
and of the equity and reasonablcls of paying ado-
ration to our creator; Whereas there appeared no-
thing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of
his first beginning, his nature, and above all, of his
inclination to evil actions, and his power to tempt us
on to the like. And indeed tnis unlearned Indian, by
the meer force of nature, puzzled me with one par-
ticular question, contrary to whatever I had expected
from him. . . / M I
! had, it seems, one day, been talking to him of
the omnipotent power of God, and his infinite ab-
horrence of sin, insomuch that the scriptures stilcd
him a consuming fire to all sinsul workers of iniquity;
and that it was in his power, whenever he pleased, to
destroy all the world in a moment, the greater part
.of which arc continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a
great while to what I said, aster I had .been telling
him, how the Devil was God's enemy in the hearts of
men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good designs of providence, and to destroy the king—
:dom of Christ in the world, and so forth: Very well,
master (said Friday) you say, God is so strong, so
great, is he not much stronger, much mightier than the
haughty Devil ? to be sure, Friday, said I, God is more
wife, and stronger than the serpent: He is above the
DeVil, which makes us pray to him, that he would
tread down Satan under our feet, enable us to resist
his violent temptations, and quench his fiery darts.
IVhy then, answered Friday quickly, if God, as you fay,
has much strong, much might as the Devil, why God no
kill Devil, make no more tempt, ho more do wicked?
You may be certain I was strangely surprised at this
question of my man's; and tho' an old man, I was
But a young doctor, and consequently very ill qualified
'for a casuist, or a res .her of intricate doubts in reli-
gion. And as it required some time for me to study for
.sai answer, I pretended not to hear him, nor to ask
him what he said: But too earnest was he for an an-
swer, not to forget his question, which he repeated in
. the vtry some broken words as above. When I had
recovered myself a little, Friday (said I) God will at last
punijh him severely, being reserved for judgment, and fs
to he cast into the bottomless pit, to remain in fire ever-
lasting. But all this did not satisfy Friday, for return-
ing upon me, he repeated my words, reserve at
last, me no understand; but vjhy not kill Devil now,
.. '* not
not kill Devil great, great while go? Friday, said \\
you may as well ask me why God does not kill you
and I, when by our wicked actions we so much of-
fend his divine Majesty? he gives us time to repent
of our fins, that thereby we may obtain pardon. Ai
these words, obtain pardon, Friday mused a great
while; and at last looking me stedfastly in the fare:
IVell, well, find he, that's very well; so you, I Devil,
all wicked mans, all preserve, repent, God pardon all.
Indeed here I was run down to the last extremity*.
when it became very evident to me, how inter natu-
ral notions will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a deity, and to the homage due to
the supreme being .of God; but however nothing but
divine revelation can from the knowledge of J.'sut
Chriji, and of a redemption purchased for us, of a
mediator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor
at the footstool of Gcd's throne; and therefore tht
Gospel of our Lord and Saviour 'Jesut. Ghrijl, that is,
the word and spirit of God, promised for the ^uide
aud sanctisicr of people, are the most necessary instruc-
tors of the souls of men, in the saving knowledge cf
the almighty, and the means to attain eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to the
discourse between my man and me, for which purpose
I rose up hastily, and made as if I had some occasion
to go out, sending Friday for something that was a eooili
way off. I then fell on my knees, and besceched.
God that he would inspire me so far, as to guide this.
poor savage in the knowledge of Chriji, to answer his
questions more clearly, that his conscience might be
convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When
he returned again, I entered into a very long discourse
with him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the saviour of the world, and the doctrine of.'
repentance preached from heaven together with an holy
fa;th in our blessed redeemer' Jesus Chriji: And theni
I proceeded to explain to. him, according to my weak
capacity,.
rapacity, the reason why our Saviour took not on him
the nature of Angels, but rather the feed of Abraham y
and how upon that account the fallen Angels had no
benesit by the redemption; and lastly, that he came
only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the
like. God knows, I had more sinperity than know-
ledge in all the ways I took for this poor Indian's In-
struction and I must acknowledge, that I believe
every body that acts upon the fame principle will fin
that in laying heavenly truths open before him, in
many things,. I informed and instructed myself, that
either I did not know, or had not perfectly considered
of before? But as I searched into them for the informa-
tion of this poor savage, so. they naturally occurred to.
my mind; and my enquiry after many things was
more asfectionate than ever I felt in my life: so that
however this poor creature might be improv'd by my
instruction, certain it is, that upon this account 1 had
great reason to bless kind providence for sending him
to me. His company allayed my grief, and made my
habitation more comfortable: And when I reflected that
this solitary life, to which I had been so long confined,
had not only moved me to look towards Heaven, but
made me the instrument, under providence, to save the
life, and, for aught I knew, the foul of a poor savage,
by bringing him to the knowledge of Jesus Christ;
this caused a secret joy -to spread thro' every part of
my foul,. and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place„ which 1 once thought to be the
most miserable part of the world.
All the remainder of my time did I continue in this
thanksul frame of mind, and for three years did my
man and I live in the greatest enjoyment and happi-
ness, by our conversation one with another, as much
as I could expect or desire. And indeed I believe the
sivage was as good a christian as I; tho' I hope we
were equally penitent; and such penitents that were.
comforted and restored by God's holy spirit: far now
we
we had the word of the Lord to instruct us in the right
way, and we were no farther off the assistance of the
holy ghost, than if we had been on the EngUjh shore..
By the constant applications I made of the scriptures,..
as I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly endea-
voured to make him understand evwy part of it, as
much as lay in my power. He also, on the other hand,
by his very serious questions and enquiries, made me
a much better proficient in scripture-knowledge than
I should have been by my own private reading and
study. I must not omit another thing proceeding from
the experience I had in my retirement; it was, that
infinite and inexpressible blessing, the knowledge cf.
God thro' Christ "Jesus, which was so plans and easy
to be understood, as immediately to direct me to cany
on the greak work of sincere repentance for my sins, r
and laying hold of a saviour for eternal l!f;, to a prac-.^
tical stated reformation and obedience to all God's
institutions, without the assistance of a reverend and
orthodox divine; and especially by this fame instruc-
tion,. so to enlighten this savage creature, as to make
him such a good christian as very few could exceed
him. And there was only this great thing wanting,
that I had no authority to administer the holy sacra-
ment, that heavenly participation of Christ's body
and blood; yet however we rested ourselves content
that God would accept our defires, and, according to
our faith, have mercy on us..
But what we wanted one way was madeup in ano-
ther, and that was, universal peace in our little church;
We had no disputes or wran^Iings about the nature
and equality of the holy, blessed, and undivided tri-
nity; no niceties in doctrinej or schemes of church
government.; no sour and morose dislenters to impose
more sublimated notions upon us, nor pedant sophis-
ters to confound us with unintelligible mysteries: but
instead of all this, .we enjoyed the most certain guide <
to heaven; that is, the word of God, besides vyhich
M 3 we.
we had the comfortable views of his spirit, leading'
us unto the truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his word. And as the
knowledge and practice of which are the principal
means of salvation, I cannot see what it avails any
christian church or man in the world, to amuse
themselves with every indifferent speculation and opi-
nion, except those who have a mind to display their
particular vanity and affectation.
You may well suppose that, by these common dis-
courses we had together, my man and I became most
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I could fay, but Friday understood, speaking
verv fluently, tho' indeed it was but broken Englijh.
And really I now took a particular pleasure in relating
. all my adventures, especially those that occured since
"my being cast on this island. I made him understand
that wondersul mystery, as he conceived, of gunpow-
der and bullet, and taught him how to shoot: 1 also
presented him a knife, which pleased him exceedingly;
making him a belt with a frog hanging thereto, like
those in which we wear hangers in England; and in-
stead of a hanger to put in that frog, I gave him a
hatchet, which was not only as good, but a more ex-
cellent weapon upon any other occasion. In a word,
my man, thus accoutered, looked upon himself as
great as Don Quixote, when that celebrated champion
went to combat the wind-mill.
After all this, I gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of the territories of Europe, and in a particular
manner of Old England, the place of my nativity. I
laid before him the manner of our worshipping God,
our behaviour to one another, and how we traded in
ships to every part of the universe. I then told him
my misfortunes in being shipwrecked, showing him,
as near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
had been long gone before. I brought him to the
ruins of our boats, which before my whole strength
.. could
could not move, but now was almost rotten and sal- _
len to pieces. I observed my man Friday to view this
boat with an uncommon curiosity, which when he
had done, he stood pondering a great while and said
nothing. At last said 1, Friday, what makes you pon-
der so much? he replyed, O Majler, me see like boat
come to place at my nation.
I was some time indeed before I understood what
my man meant; but examining farther into it, I plain-
ly found, such another boat, resembling that, had come
to the country where he dwelt; as much as to fay,
by his farther explanation, that the boat was driven
there thro* violent storms and stress of Weather. It
presently came into my mind, that some European ship
having been cast away, the poor distrcst creatures
were forced to have recourse to the boat to save their
lives; and being all, as I thought, drowned, I never
concerned myself to ask any thing about them, but
my only enquiry was about the boat, and what de-
scription my man could give of it.'
Indeed ""Friday answered my demands very well,
making every thing very plain to my understanding;
but especially I was satisfied when he told me, with a
great warmth and adour, 0 majler, we save white
mans from drown: Upon which I immediately asked
him, if there were any white mans, as he called them,
in the boat? yes yes, said he, the boat full, very full,
white mans. How many, Friday? said I. Hereupon
he numbered his fingers and counted seventeen. And
when I asked him what became of them all, and whe-
ther they lived or not? he replyed, yes Majler, they
all live, they be live 'm<mg my Nation. This plainer in-
formation put new thoughts into my head, that these
must be those very men, which before I concluded
had been swallowed up in the ocean after they had left
their ship, that had struck upon the rocks of my
kingdom; and after escaping the sury of the deep,
landed upon the wild shore, and committed themselves
to the sury of those devouring Indians. Th*
The manner of their. cruelties to one another, which
consequently, as I thought, must be acted with greater
barbarity to strangers, created a great admiration witlv-
in me, and made me still more curious to ask Friday
concerning them: He told me, he was sure they lived
still there, having resided among them above four
years, and the savages gave them victuals to live
upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence.proceeded
all this good-nature and generosity? How came it to
pass that they did not kill and eat them to please their
devouring appetites, and occasion so splendid an En-
tertainment among them? No no, said Friday, they
not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em; by which I
understood there was a truce between them. And then
I had a more favourable opinion of the Indians, upon.
Friday's uttering these words; my nation, t'other na-
tion, no eat mans, but when mans make war fight;.
as tho' he had said, that neither those of his king^
dom, nor any other nadon that he knew of, ever eat
their fellow-creatures, out such whom their law of"
arms allowed to be devoured; and they were those
miserable captives, whose great misfortune it should
be to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and I stood
upon thctop.of a hill,. on the east side of the island,
whence i had once before beheld the continent of.
America. I could not tell immediately what was the
matter, fpr suddenly Friday fell a jumping and dancing
as if he had been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason of his behaviour, O joy!. said he, 0 glad I
Ihtrstjee ?ny country, there my nation^ there live .white
mans allgetlter. And indeed such a rapturous fense cf:"
pleasure appeared in his countenance, that his eyes
had an uncommon sparkiing ^nd brightness, and such
a strange eagerness, as if he hue. a longing desire to
be in his own country again; and aiis new observa*
lion.which I had, made ma not so well satisfied with
Pf.
my man Friday as before; for by this appearance I
made no dispute, but thr it. if he could get back thither
again, he would not only be unmindsul of what reli-
gion I had taught him, but likewise of the great obli-
gation that he owed me for his wondersul deliverance:
nay, that he would not only inform his countrymen
of me, but accompany hundreds of them to my king-
dom, and make me a miserable sacrifice like those un-
happy wretches taken in battle
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these cruel
and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I wronged
the poor creature very much, who was quite of a con-
trary temper; and had he that discerning acutenessr
^wHich many Europeans have, he would have perceived
my coldness and indifference, and also have been very
much concerned upon this account: For as I was now
more circumspect, I had much lessened my kindness
and familiarity with him: And while this jealousy
continued, I used that artsul way (now too. much in
fashion to occasion strife and dissension) of pumping
him daily, thereby to discover whether he was deceit-
sul in his thoughts and inclinations: But certainly. Ha.
had nothing in him but what was consistent with the
best principles, both as a religious christian and grate-
sul friend; and indeed I found every thing he said was
so ingenuous and innocent, that I had noroom for suf.*
picion, and, in spite of all uneasiness v he not only made
me entirely his own again, but also caused me much
to lament that I ever conceived one ill though t of him.
As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather being so hazy at sea that I could;
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you.
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation,. among your old friends and acquaintance?
Yes. said he, me much O glad to bt at. my own nation.
And what would you do there', Friday ? said I, would
you turn wild again, eat man's sksb, and be a savage
you. was formerly? tfo no, (answered he, sull of
concern.
concern, and shaking his head) Friday naiv tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-fejh, milk, no eat man again. But sure-
ly replied I, if you should offer to do all this, they
will kill you, and to manifest their contempt of such
instruction, may eat you up when they have done. He
then put on a grave, yet innocent and smooth coun-
tenance, saying, no, they no kill me, they 'willing lowe
learn; that is, that they would be very Willing to learn
adding withal, that they had learn much of tlie bearded
mam that come in the boat. Will you go back again:
Friday f said I. He smiled at that, and told me that
he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will make a
Canoe for you; yes Majler, said he, me go if you go,
me no go if you flay. I go, Friday! said I, why would
you have them eat me up, and devour your. kind mas-
ter? No no, said he, me make they no eat majler, me
maie they mueh love you; that is, he would tell them
how I had slain his enemies. and thereby saved his life,.
for which reason he would make them love me: And
then he related to me, as well as he was able, how
exceeding kind those of his nation were to the white,-
or bearded men as he called them, who in their great
calamity, were. driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong incli-
nations to venture over, and use my utmost efforts,
if possible, to join these white bearded men, who un-'
doudtedly were Spainiards or Portuguese: For (thought
I) it must be certainly a bettei and laser way to escape
when there is a good company, than for me alone,
from an island forty miles osf the shore, and without
any assistance. Some days after, Fnday and 1 being.
at work as usual, at the s.ime time diverting ourselves
with various difeourics, I told him I hid a boat which.
I would bestow upon him, whenever he pkised to re-.
turn to his own nation : And, to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the other
lide of the island where my frigate lay, and then tak-
Ing it from under the water (for I always kept it sunk
for sear of a discovery) we both went into it, to fee
how it would manage such an expedition.
Really never could any be more d jxterous in rowing
than my faithsul servant, making the boat go as fast
again as I could. Well now, Friday, (said' I) shall
.we go to your so much desired nation? But instead of
meeting with that chearsulness I expected, he looked
very dull and melancholy at my faying so; which in-
deed at sirst surprized me, till he made me sensible, thar
his concern was about the boat's being too small'
go so far a voyage. Upon which I let him understand
I had a much bigger; and accordingly the next day
went to the place where the first boat lay which I hat'
made, when all the strength I had, or art could use,
failed me in my attempt to get it into the water; but
now, it having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while, it be-
came in a manner rotten. My man told me, that such
a boat would do very well for the purpose; sufficient
to carry enough vittle, dring, bread, for that was his
manner of talking. In short, my mind being strong-
ly fixed upon my design of going over with him to
. the continent, I very plainly told him that we would
both go and make a boat sull as big, and more pro-
portionable than that, wherein he might safely return
to his own nation.
These words I observed made Friday look so very
pensive, that I thought he would have fallen at my feet.
: It was sometime before he would speak a word, which
made me ask him what was the matter with him? He
replied, in a very soft and moving tone, what has poor*.
Friday done ? Why are you angry mad with poor servant?
What me done^ O, what me done? Friday, said I, you
never yet have offended me, what makes you think I
am angry with you, when I am not angry at all? You
no angry, no angry said he several times, if you be no
angry^why den send Friday over great water to my own
nation?
nations Why surely, Friday, answered I, did not yen
wish to be there, when from a mountain you beheld
.the place where you was born; and is it not to satisfy
your defires that I am willing to give you leave to re-
turn thither? Yes yes, said Friday, me wijh be there furl
'nough, but me den wijhmajler then too; no wist) Friday
there, no master there. In short, he could not endure
the thoughts of going there without me. I go there,
Friday! said I, what shall I do there ?—-He answered
.very quickly, O majlcr, you do great deal much good,
you teach ail de 'wild mans to be good tame mans, you
learn t'<em to be sober, live good life, to know God, and
fray God. Alas! poor Friday, laid I, what can I do
against their Priests of Benamuckee, or indea what good
can I make jour Nation sensible of, when! myself am
tut a poor ignorant man? No, no, majlcr, said he, you
ibe no ignorant, you teachee me good, you teacbee them good.
You shall go without me Friday, said I, for I don't
<are to accompany you thither : I would rather live in
this Solitude, than to venture among such inhuman
iSavages. Go your way, since you delire it, and leave
me alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.
Never was any Creature more thunder-struck than
Friday was at these Words, Go me away, leave Mas-
ter away I said he, after a long Silence. No, no, Fri-
day die, Friday net live majlcr gone! as tho' he had
said, I neither can nor will live if my master fends me
from him. And here I cannot but take notice of the
.strong Ties of Friendship, which many times surpass
those of Consanguinity: For often we find a great
disagreement among kindred; and when there is any
seeming Regard for each other, 'tis very seldom true,
and scarce ever lasting, if powersul interest does not
bear the sway; and that alone is often the occasion
of the greatest hatred in the World; which is to de-
fire the death of parents and relations, for the fake
.of enjoying their fortunes: But hej:e was no such
thing between my servant and me; instead of which,
there
tTiere was nothing but gratitude, and the sincerest k*ve:
He found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter : Not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a
kind loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or out
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his soul ; and therefore no wonder was it, that-
such an innocent creature, long .since divested of hrs
former natural cruelty, should have an uncommon
.concern at so cruel. a seperation from me, which
pierced him to the very fcul$ and made him .defire
even to die rather than live without me.
Aster I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he fliould beat his liberty as soon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes expressed all immagina-
ble consusion, when immediately running to one of
his hatchets, which he used to wear as a most defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so
sull that he could scarce speak. Friday, said I, what
is it you mean? What must I do with this? Only kill
Friday, said he, Friday no care live long. But what
must skill you for replied I again. Ab! dear. Ma/lets
what make ycu Friday save from eat a me up± jb"te*p ling
Friday, make Friday love God, and not lovesi<?i«unui:-
kee; and now Friday send away, never see Friday'tftorc f
As tho' the poor creature had said, Alas 1 my deaa'ft,
kindest Master, how comes it to pass that after having
ventured your precious life to save me from theNJ;iws
of devouring cannibles, like myself; after such a tender
regard to provide for me such comfortable nourishment,
and continuing so long a kind Master, and most sincere
friend; and after making me forsake the false notion
of an Indian deity, and worship theS»£c God in spirit
and jn truth: After all this, I fay, how comes it
.now,, that you are willing to fend me away to my for-
mer course of living, by which means undoubtedly we
shall be dead to each other; but greater must be my
misfortune, that I shall never behold the best friend
I have in tins world any more! And this certainly, tho'
N he
timents; for the tearsran down his cheeks in such a
plentisul manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
.weeping also, when I beheld the poor creatures affec-
tion: So that I was forced ta comfort him in the belt
.manner, which I did by telling him, if he was content
to abide with me, I should he ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was something abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he said, O mas-
ter, me not tare be in my nation, .leave you here; me desire
.my nation learn good,' that all; meaning that his defire
Was for the conversion of that barbarous people.
But as I have no apostolic miffion, nor arty concern
ahout their salvation; so I had neither the least inten-
tion or defire of undertaking it: and the strength of
my inclination, in order to escape, proceeded chiefly
from my late disceurse with Friday about those seven-
teen white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the barbarian coast, whom I designed to join with, as
a surer means to/urrher our escape. To which in-
tent my man and I went to search for a proper tree to
fell, whereof we might make a large periagua or ca-
~noe, to undertake the voyage: And indeed we need
not be long in finding one fit for our purpose, there
being wood enough in the island to have built a fleet
of large vessels; but the thing we principally want-
ed was, to get one so near the water that we might
launch it after it was finished, and not commit so hor-
rid a mistake as I had done once many years before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday at last, whose judgement in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitched upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. To this day I
cannot tell the name of the tree I cut it from, nor
describe it any other way, then only by saying, that it
is very like what we call fustk, or betwixt that and
the Nicarague wood, being much of the fame colour
and smell. But tho' my man exceeded me in the
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed
- him
th:ui ever he knew before: For he was for burning the.
hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make this
boat; but I thtn told him how we might do it with.
tools, learning him at the fame time how to use them,.
.which indeed he did very dexterously; so that in *
Month's labour, we finished it, making it very hand-
some by cutting the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this it took us sull a. fortnight before we
could get her into the water, which we did as it werev
inch by inch, upon. great rowlers: But when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with all the
ease imaginable..
As I was very well pleased, you may be fiire,.atthe
launching of this man of war of mine, I was no less
amazed to behold with what dexterity my man would.
managa her, turn her and paddle her along. Well,.
Friday, said I, what do you think of it now? D.o you.
think this will carry us over? Yes Master,me
venture over well, tho' great llow wind. But my de-
sign was. yet farther, which he was insensible of. and.
that was to. make a mast and fail, and to provide her
with an anchor and cable. As for a mss, that was
no difficult thing at all to procure; so I sixed upon a-
strait young cedar-tree, which 1 found near the place,.
there abounding great plenty of it in the island ; and
setting Friday to cut it down, I gave him particular
directions how to shape and order it 'y but as to the
-lail, that belonged to me only. I very well knew I
had some old ones, or pieces of falls, enough, which
Had lain six and twenty years by me; but not being.
caresul to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more; when I Came to
look over them, I sound them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pajns, and aVkward tedious stitching,
for want x>f needles, I finished at length a three-
corner'd agly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at bot-
N 2 tom,
tom,. and a little small sprit at the top,. like those"
TVhich our long boats use, and which I very well knew
how to manage; especially since it was like that
which I had in my patron's fishing-boat, when, with
thy boy Xury, I made my escape from the Barbary
shore.
It was near twomonthsTI think, before I completed
this work, that is, the rigging and fitting my mall and
fails; p.nd indeed they were nicely done, having made
a small stay, and a fail or foresail to it, to assist,. if
we should turn to the westward; and, which was still
more, I sixed a Rudder to the stern of her, to steer
with; and tho' I was but a very indifferent shipwright,.
yet, as I was sensible of the great usesulness and abso-
lute necessity of a thing like this, I applied myself
to it with such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design, but what with the many dull
contrivances 1 had about it, and the failure of many
things, it cost me as much pains in ordering, as io.
making the boat. Besides, when all this was done, I
had my man Friday to teach what belonged to its na-
vigation: For tho' he very well.understood how to pad-
dle a canoe along, yet he was an utter stranger to a
fail and a rudder, and was amazed when he law me
work the boat too and again in the sea by the same,
and how the sail gibbed and filled, this way, or that
way, as the course we sailed changed. After some
time, and a little use, I made all these things very
familiar to him, so that he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept in relation to the compass; and that I could make.
him understand but very little of. But as it happened.
there was seldom occasion for it, there being but little
cloudy weather, and scarce ever any fog in those parts
the stars were always visible in the night, and the shore
perspicuous by day, except in the rainy season, which
confined every one around them, to their habitations.
Thus entered in the seven and twentieth year of
my reign, captivity, which you please, (the last three
of which, blefled with the compa'ny of my man Friday
ought.
ou ght not to be reckoned) I kept the anniversary of my
landing here, with the same thanksulness to God, for
his tender mercies, as I did before; and certainly, as
I had a great cause for a thanksul acknowledgement
for my deliverance at first, I had much greater nOw;
for such singular and additional testimonies of the care
of Providence over me, in all my distresses, both of
body and mind, and the great hopes I had of being
effectually and speedily delivered; for I had a strong
impression upon my mind, that I should not be ano-
ther year in this island: But however I still continued
on withi.my husbandry, digging, planting and fencing
as usual: Gathering and curing my grapes, . and do-
ing all other things that were necessary for me.
And now the rainy season beginning to come upon
me, obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but
before this I brought my new vessel into the creek,
where I had'landed"my rafts from the ship, and hail-
ing her up to the shore, I ordered my man Friday to
dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep enough
to give her water, wherein she might float; and then,
when.the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep up the water; by which
means she lay dry, as to the tide from the lea; and.
to keep the rain from her, we thatched her over, as.
it were, with boughs of trees, like a house; and so
waited for the months of November and Dtcember^ in.
which I designed to venture over the ocean..
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so much was I elevated by this new. designed .
adventure, that I daily prepared for the voyage. The
first thing I thought of was, to lay by a certain quan-
tity of provisions, as a sufficient store for such an ex-
pedition, intending in a week or fortnight's time to
open the dock.and' launch.out the boat for that pur.r
pose. But one morning, as I was very busy upon
something necessary for this occasion, I called Friday
to me, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see.if 'he
N 3 could.
commonly had once a week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as for fake of the flesh. He had not
been long gone, but he came running back, as though.
he was pursued for life, and, as it were, flew over my
outward wall or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to enquire the reason of his precipitation, he
cries out, O Master! O dear Master! O sorrow, sor-
row! bad! 0 bad! Why, what's the matter, Fri-
day? said I. O yonder, yonder, said he, there be one,
twe three canoes! two, three! Surely (thought I)
there must be six by my man's way of reckoning;
but on a stricter enquiry,. I found there was but three.
Well, Friday, said I, don't be terrified, I warrant you
we will not only defend ourselves against them, but
kill the most of those cruel savages. Buttho' I com-
forted him in the best manner I could, the poor crea-
ture trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with
him: O Master, says he, they come look Friday, cut
pieces Fridaj, eat a me up. Why, Friday, said I,
they will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great asyours. But since it is so, we must resolve
to sight for our lives: What fay you? can you sight,.
Friday ?' Yes, said he very faintly, me jhoot, me till
what I can, but there come great many number. That's
no matter, said I again, our guns will terrify those
that we do not kill: I am very willing to stand by you
till the last drop of my blood ; now tell me,.if yo.u will
tlo the like by me, and obey my orders in whatsoever
I command? Friday then answered, 0 Master, me lose
life for you, me die when you bid die. Thus conclud-
ing all questions concerning his fidelity, immediately
I fetched him a good dram of rum, (of which I had
been a very good husband) and gave it him to com-
fort his heart. After he had drank it, I ordered him
to take the two fowling-pieces, which we always car-
ried, and load them with large swan shot as big as
small
small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each, charging my two pistols each with a brace, I
h ung my great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most certain weapon
of defence. ...
Thus prepared, I thought, as well as any Knight-
.errant that ever handled a sword and spear, I took
my perspective glass, and went up to the side of the
hill,. to fee what I could discover; and I perceived
very soon, by my glass, that there was one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their chief concern seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon the three poor human bodies, a thing which
by this time I had observed was very common with
them. From hence I also remarked, that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made his escape,
but nearer to the creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came very close to the sea. And
then it was my soul was filled with indignation and
abhorrence of such inhuman wretches, that put a
period to all my former thoughts in their vindication;
neither would I give myself time to consider their
right of conquest, as I had done before. But, descend-
ing from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and
told him, I was resolved to go speedily to them and
kill them all; asking him again in the same breath, if
he would stand by me? When by this time being re-
covered from his fright, and his spirit much chcared
with the dram I had given him, he was very pleasant,
yet seriously telling me, as he did before, ' when I bid
die, he would die.'
And now it was, that having sixed my resolution
in so strong a manner, that nothing could divest my
breastifrom its uncommon sury, I immediately divided
the arms already charged between us. To my man
Friday, I gave a pistol to stick in his girdle, with three
guns upon his shoulder, a weight too great I confess
to
to bear; but what must a poor Kingdoj who had but
one soldier in the world? But to shew I made him
bear no more than what I would lay on; myself, I stuck
the other. pistol in my girdle, and the three guns up-
on my shoulders, nay something more, but that was
like Æsop's burthen, a small bottle of rum, which
.soon was lightened to our exceeding refreshment.
Thus we marched out, under a ponderous load of ar>-
mour, yet, like two invincible champions, with a quan-
tity of powder and bullets to stand our battle, when
the pieces were discharged. And now my orders be-
ing to be obeyed, I charged.Friday to keep close behind
.me, and not to stir, orshoot, or attempt any thing till.
I commanded him; and, in the interim, not to speak
so much as one word. It was in this order I fetched
a compass to my right hand, of near a mile, as well;
to get over the creek, as to attain the wood; and by
this I thought to comeywithin shot of them before I
could be discerned, as! found by my glass, was no.
.difficult thing to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of man$.
even in our greatest sury, and strongest inclination ;.
for while I was taking this march, my resolutions be-
gan to abate, not through fear of their numbers, who
were a parcel of naked unarmed wretches ; but these
reflections occurred to my thoughts, as, what power
was I commfssioned with, or what occasion or neces-
sity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and murder people who had neither done, nor intended
. to do me any wrong ; They were innocent in particular
as to me; and their barbarous custom was not only
their misfortune, but a sign that God had left them in
the most immense stupidity; but yet did not appoint
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of his righteous judgments ; that on the con-
trary, whenever he thought fit, he would take ven-
geance on them himself, and punish them in a national
way, according to their national crimes ; but this was
ftothing
.nothing at all to me, who had no concerns with them.
Indeed my man Friday might justify himself, because
they were his declared enemies, of that very fame na-
tion that went to sacrisice him before; and indeed it
was lawsul for him to attack them, which I could not
fay was so in. respect to me. So warmly did these
things press upon my thoughts all the way I wens,
fchat I only resolved to place myself so, as to behold
their bloody entertainment, without falling upon them,
except something, more than ordinary, by God's spe-
cial direction, should oblige me thereto.
Thus'sixed in my resolution, I entered into the thick
.wood (my man Friday following me close behind)
.when, with all possible wariness and filence, I marched
till I came to the skirt of it, on that side which was
the nearest to them ; for only that one end of the wood
interposed between me and them. Upon which I called
verylsoftly to Friday, and shewed him a great tree,
that was just at the corner. of the wood, I ordered him
to repair thither, and bring me ward, if he could
plainlypexceive their actions: Accordingly, hedid as I
commanded him, and came back with this melancholy
story, that they were all about their fire, .eating th#
flesh. of one of their prisoners; and that another lay
bioundupon the sand, a little distant from them, which
they designed tp be their next sacrifice; and this, he.
told me, was not one of their nation, but one of those
very bearded men, who was driven by a storm. into.
th.eir country, and whom he had so often talked to
rri'e about. You may be sure, that upon hearing this,
my soul was ready to sink within me; when as-
cending up into a tree,' I saw plainly by my glass,
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his. hands. and feet tied with flags, or things
resembling rushes, being covered with cloaths, and
seemed to be a European. From the; tree where I took
this prospect, I perceived another tree, and a thicket
beyond it, about fifty yards nearer *> them, than
where I was, whichT by taking a small circle round",.I
might come at undiscovered, and then I should be
within half a shot of these devourers. And this consi-
deration alone, to be more perfectly revenged upon
them, made me with-hold my passion, though I was
enraged to the highest degree imaginable; when going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree
and then I ascended a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance from us, and there I had a
full view of these creatures, and I could perceive all
their action's.
Such a sight did then appearr as obliged me not. to.
lose a moment's time. There were no less than nine-
teen of these dreadsul wretches, fat upon the ground',
close huddled together, expressing all the delight ima-
ginable at so barbarous an entertainment; and they
had just sentthe other two to murder this pooruhhap-
py Chrijtian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to
their fire ; for they were just then going to untie the
bands from his feet, in order for death. as fetters are
knocked osf from the feet of malefactors before they
go to the place of execution.. Hereupon immediately
turning to my man, now, Friday, said I, mind what
I fay, fail in nothing, but do exactly as you fee me do.
All which he promising he would perform, I set down.
one of my muskets and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the fame by his ; and with the
other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like : Are you ready ? said L. Yes,. Master,
said he. Why then fire at them, said I $.and that very
moment I gave fire likewise.
''For my part, I killed one, and woundedtwo; butmy
man Friday takir.g his aim much better than I, killed
two, and wounded three more. You may be sure they
wercin a dreadsul consternation, at such anunexpected
disaster ; and those who yet had escaped our penetrat-
ing shot, imdtediately jumped upon their' feet, but
were. in such consusion,. that they knew not which
way
"\vay to run or look, not knowing from whence their
destruction came. We then threw down our pieces;
and took up others, giving a second dreadsul volley; but
sis they were loaded only with swan-shot, or small
pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them fall; bur
ib many were wounded, that they run yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now Friday^
said I, ^y down your piece, and take up the musket.
and follow me. He did so, with great courage, when
shewing ourselves to the savages, we gave a grea*
shout, and made directly to the ppor victim, wfi.;
.\Vouldhave been sacrisiced, had not pur first fire obligi;
their butchers with three others, to jump into a caooe.
By my order, Friday fired at theth, at which shot I
thought he killed them all, by reason of their falling to
the bottom of the boat; however' he killed two, and
mortally wounded a third. In the mean time I cut the
flags that tic ihthe hands and feet bf the poor creature,
and lifting him up asked him in the Partugueze tongue,
TVhat he was? He answered me in Latin, Chrijlianus;
hut so very weak and faint, that he could scarce stand
.dr speak'. Immediately I gave him a dram, and a piece
of tread to cherish him, and asked him what coun-
tryman he was? He said Espanioia, and then uttered
all the thanksulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Seignior (sard I, with as much Spanijh as I was master
of) let us talk afterwards, but sight now; here take
this sword and pistol, and do what you can. And in-
deed he did so with such courage and intrepidity, that
he cut two of them to pieces in an instant, (the sa-
vages not having the power to fly for their lives.) I
ordered Friday to run for those pieces we had left at the
tree, which he brought to me with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded the
rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter be-
tween the Spaniard and one of the savages, who had
made at him with one of their wooden swords; and
tho'the former W3s as brave as could ie expected,
.having twice wounded his enemy in the head; yet,
being
being faint, the Indian had thrown him upon the
ground, and was wresting my sword out of his hand,
which the Spaniard very wifely quitting; drew out his
pistol, and shot him through the body, before I could
come near him, who was running to his assistance. As
to Friday he pursued the flying wretches with his
hatchet, dispatching three, but the rest were too nimble
for him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-
pieces, wounded two, who running into the wood,
'Friday pursued and killed one; but the other, notwith-
standing his'wounds, plunged himself into the sea,
and swam to those two who were left in the canoe,
which with one wounded, were all that escaped out
of one and twenty. The account is as follows:
Killed at tin first jhot 7
from the tree 3 .*
At the second Jhot 2
By Friday in the boat 2
Ditto, of those firjl 1
wounded J
Ditto, in the wood 1
By the Spaniard 3
Killed, being fallen of\
their wounds i
Escaped in the boat, ~>
whereof one Wound- f
ed, if not jlain J
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuing
them: and indeed I was no less anxious about their
escape, left, after the news had been carried to their
people, they shoirtd return in multitudes, and destroy
us. Ss being resolved to pursue them, Ijumped into
pne of their canoes, and bid Friday to follow me; but
110 sooner was I in, when to my surprize, I found
another poor creature bound hand and foot for the
slaughter, just as the Spaniard bad been, with very
little life in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up, but he could neither stand
nor speak, but groaned piteoufly, thinking he was on-
ly unbound in order to be (lain. Hereupon I bid Fri-
day speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance;"
when
when pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch
drink a dram; which, with the joysul news he had
received, so revived his heart, that he fat up in the;
boat. As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,
and looked more sully in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to perceive his uncommon transports
of joy; for he kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced,
fung, then cried again, .wrung his hands, beat his
face and head, then sung and jumped about .again,
I.ike a distracted creature; so that it was a great while
before I could make him speak to me, or tell me What
was the matter with him; but, when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he tcld me, it was his
father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee the dutisul
and tender affections this poor savage had to his aged
parent. He would sit down by him in the boat, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bo-
som half an hour together to nourish it; then he took:
his arms and ankles, which were stiff and numbed
with binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands 5 by which means, perceiving what the cafe
was, I gave him some rum, which proved of great
benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages had
gotten almost out of light; and happy it was we did
not pursue them; for there arose from the north-west,
which continued all night long, such a violent storm,
that I could not suppose otherwise, but that they were
all drowned. Aftar this I called Friday to me, and
asked him, if he had given his father any bread! He
shook his head, and said, None, net one bit^ ?ne eat a up
all; Co I gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch
I carried for this end. I likewise gave him adram for
himself, and two or three bunches of raisins for his
father. Both these he carried to him, for he would
make him drink the dram to comfort him. Away he
then runs out of the boat as if he was bewitched, with
O such
such an extraordinary swiftness, that he was out of
fight as it were in an instant; but at his return I per-
ceived him slacken his pace, because he had something
in his hand: And this 1 found to be, as he approached
nearer, an earthen jug to bring his father some water
in, with two more cakes of bread, which he delivered
into my hands. Being very thirsty myself, I drank
fome of the water, of which, when his father had
drank sufficiently, it more revived his spirits, than all
.4im the tum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to car-
ry the Spaniard one of the cakes and some water, who
was reposing himself upon a green place under the
shade of a tree, but so weak that though he exerted
himself, he could not stand upon his feet. Upon
which I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his ankles
with rum as he did his father's, But every minute
he was employed in this, he would cast a wishsul eye
towards the boat, where he left his father sitting;
when suddenly, not being to be seen, he flew like
.lightning to him; and finding he only laid himself
down to ease his limbs, he returned back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday
help him, and lead him to the boat, in order to be
conveyed to my dwelling, where I would take care of
him: Upon which Friday made nothing to take him
upon his back, and so carried him to The canoe, setting
him close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along the
shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew:
very hard too; and having brought them safe to the
creek, away he runs to fetch the other canoe, which
he brought to the creek almost as soon as I got to it
by land; when wafting me over, he took our new
fuests out of the boat. But so weak were they, that
was forced to make a kind of hand-barrow; and when
I came to my castle, not being willing to make an
entrance into my wall, we made them a handsome
tent, covered with old sails and boughs of trees,
making
making two good beds of rice-straw, with blanket*
to lie upon and cover them. Thus, like an absolute
King, over subjects who owed their lives unto me, I
thought myself very remarkable, especially considering
I had three religions in my kingdom, my man Friday.
being a Protestant, his father a Pagan, and theSpamard"
a Papist ; but I gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provision for my poor weak subjects, I or-
dered" Friday to kill me a yearling goat, which when
be had done, I cutoff the hinder quarters, and chop-
ing it into small pieces, boiled and stcWed it, putting
barley and.rice into the broth. This I carried into
their tent, set a table, dined with them myself, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke the
language of the savages pretty well. After dinner I
ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from the
field of battle, and the next day to bury the dead
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his father, whe*.
ther he thought those savages had escaped the late
storm in their canoe; and if so, whether they would
not return with a power too great for us to resist? He
answered, that he thought it impossible they should cut-
live the storm, or if they were driven southwardly, they
would come to a land where they would as certainly
be devoured, as if they were drowned in the sea. And
suppose they had attained their own country, the
strangeness of their bloody and fatal attack, would
make them teil their people,. that the rest of them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of"
man, but by two heavenly spirits (meaning Friday.
and me) who were sent from above to destroy them:
And this, he said, he knew, because he heard them.
say the same to one another. And indeed he was in the
righton't; for I have heard since, that these four men
gave out, that whoever went to that inchanted island,
would be destroyed by fire from the Gods.
^No canoes appearing some time afte r, as I expected,
O 2 my
ray apprehensions ceased; instead of which my for-
mer thoughts of a voyage took place, especially when
Friday's father assured me I should have good usage
in his country. As to the Spaniard, he told me, that
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who
had been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that tough they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions and
other necessaries. When I asked him about the par-
ticulars of his' voyage, he answered, that their ship
was bound from Aio de la Plata to the Havanna, that
when the ship was lost, only five men perished in the
ocean, the rest, having saved themselves in the boat;
were now landed on the main continent. " And what
do they intend to do there? said I. He replied, they
had concerted meysures to escape hy building them a
vessel, but they had neither tools or provisions; so
that all their designs came to nothing. Supposing,
said I, I should make them a proposal, and invite
them here, would they not carry me prisoner to Nev>
Spain? He answered, No; for he knew them to be
such honest men as would scorn to act such inhuman
baseness to their deliverer: That, if I pleased, hd and
the old savage would go over to them, talk with them
about it, and bring me an answer; that they should
all swear fidelity to me as their leader, upon the holy
sacraments; and that for his part he would not only
do the fame, but stand by me to the last drop of his
blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose: But when every thing was ready, the Spaniard
raised an objection which carried a great deal of
weight in it. You knew, Sir, said he, that being some
time with you, J cannot but be sensible of your Jlock of
rice and corn, sufficient, perhaps, for us at prcjer.t, but
net for them, jhould they ecme over presently; much less
to victual a vessel for an intended voyage. Want might
be as great an occasion for them to disagree and rebel,
as
as the Children of Israel did against God himself, when
they wanted bread in the wilderness,: And therefore my -
advice is to wait another harvejt, and, in the mean time,
cultivate and improve some more land, whereby we
may have plenty of provisions, in order to execute our
design.
This advice of the Spaniard! approved of extreme-
ly, and so satissied was I of his sidelity, that I esteemed
him ever after. And thus we all four went to work
upon some more land, and against seed-time we had
got as much cured and trimmed up, as was susficient
to sow twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen'
jars of rice, which was in short all the seed we had
to spare. As we were 4 in number, and by this time.
all in good health, we feared not an hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us :. And while the corn
was growing, I pitched upon some trees fit to build
us a large vessel in cafe the Spaniards came over;
which being marked, I ordered Friday and his father
to cut them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my Privy Counsellor, to oversee and direct the
work. I likewise encreased my flocks of goats,. by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my enclosure: Nor did I neglect the grape-
season, but cured them as usual, though.I had such a
quantity now, as would have filled eighty barrels with.
raisins. And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, 'till. harvest.
came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it so
much, that from twenty-two barrels of barley, we.
threshed out two hundred and twenty, and the like
quantity of rice, susficient to victual any ship, to.
carry.me and all the Spaniards to any part of America..
Thus the principal objection being answered, by a
susficient stock of provision, I sent my. two ambassa-
dors over to the main, with. a regal. authority, to ad-
minister the oaths of allegiance and fidelity, and'
have an instrument signed under theit hands,.though I
.  . . O 3 never
never asked whether they had pen, .ink, or paper;
when giving each of them a musquet, eight charges
of powder and ball, and provision enough for eig*ht
days, they sailed away with a fair gale, on a day when
the moon was at sull.
Scarce a fortnight had past over my head, but im-
patient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which
was ushered in, by my man's coming running to me,
and calling aloud, Majler, Majler, they are come, they
are come. Upon which, not dreaming of any danger,
out I jumps from my bed, puts on my cloaths, and
hurries thro' my little grove, when looking towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half
distant, standing in for the more, with the wind fair.
I beheld they did* not come from the side where the
land lay on, but from the southermost end os the
island: So these being none of the people we wanted, I
ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as I descended
from the mountain, which, with my ladder, I now as-
cended, in order to discover more sully what they were:
And now, with the help of my perspective glass, I
plainly perceived an Englijh ship, which I concluded
it to be, by the fashion of its long-boat, and which
filled me with such uncommon transports of joy, that
I cannot tell how to describe; and yet some secret
doubts hung about me, proceeding from I know not
what cause, as tho' I had reason to be upon my guard.
And indeed I would have no man contemn the secret
hints and intimations of danger, which very often
are given, when he may imagine there is no possibility
of its being real : For had I not been warned by this
filent admonition, I had been in a worse station than
before, and perhaps inevitably ruined.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shore, as tho' they looked for a place where
they might conveniently land; and at last they ran their
koat on shore upon the beach, about half a mile dis-
tance,
tance, which proved so much the happier for me ; since
had they come into the creek, they had landed just at
my door, and might not only have forced me out of
my castle, but plundered me of all I had in the world.
Now I was sully convinced they were all Englijhmen^
three of which were unarmed and bound ; when im-
mediately the first four or five leaped on shore, and took
those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of whom
I could perceive used the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the others, in
a lesser degree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very much
astonished, and I beckoned to Friday, (who was be-
low to ascend the mountain, and likewise view this
sight.' O Master, fays he to me, you see English mans
eat prisoners, as well as savage mans. And do you think
they will eat them, Friday? said I. Yes, said Friday,
they tat a all up. No, no, said I Friday, I am much
more concerned least they murder them; but as for
eating them up, that I am sure they never will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in not
having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but also that
I could not tome within shot of them unperceived,
(they having no fire-arms among them) and save these
three men, whom Ithought they were going to kill with
their swords. But some comfort it was to me, that
I perceived they were set at liberty to go where they
pleased, the rascally seamen scattering about as tho' they
had a mind to fee the place: And so long did they
negligently ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as
to leave the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect, for having drank
a little too much liquor, they fell fast afleep; but one
of them waking before the other, and perceiving the
boat too fast a-ground for his strength to remove it, he
halloo'd out to the rest, who made all possible expe-
tion to him: But, as Providence ordered it, all their
force was ineffectual to launch her, when I could hear
them
them speak one to another, Why, let her alone, Jack,
tan't ye, fhe'il sihat next tide; by .which words I was
fully confirmed that they were my own countrymen.
All this. while 1 lay very quiet, as being sully sensible,
}t could be no. less than ten hours before the boat
would be afloat, and then it would be so dark, as that
they could not eafily perceive me, by which means I
fliould be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions: Not but that I prepared for my
defence before; yet as I had now another sort of ene-
mies to. combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two fuzees on my shoulders, and gave Friday
three muskets ; besides my formidable goat-skin coat,
and monstrous cap, made me look as fierce and ter-
rible as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword hanging
by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt
till it was dark; but it being now two o'clock, in the
very heat of the day, the sailors vfrere all straggling into
the woods, and undoubtedly were lain down to sleep.
The three poor distressed creatures, too anxious to get
any repose, were however seated under the shade of
a great tree, about a quarter of a mile from me :i
Upon which, without any more ado, I approached to-
wards them, with my man following behind me, and
before I was perceived, I called. aloud to them in Spa-
nijh, TVhat are ye Gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great consusion,
and, beholding the strange sigure I made, they returned
no answer, but seemed as if they would fly from me.
Gentlemen, (said I, in Englijh) don't be afraid: Perhaps
you have a friend nearer you than you expeil. He must
be from Heaven, said one of them gravely, and pulling
off his hat; for we are past all help in this world. Æl
help is from Heaven, said I; but. Sir, as I have per-
'ceived every aclion between you. and those brutes, since
your
J'oyr landing, only inform me how to assist you, and I will
do it to the utmost of my power.
Ami talking with God or man (said her in melting
tears) Are you of human-kind, or an Angel! Sir,
said I, my poor habit may till you I am man, and an
Englishman, willing to assist you, having but this ser-
vant only: Here are arms and ammunition: Tell freely
your condition, can we serve you: The ftory, said he,
is too long to relate, since our butchers are so near?
But, Sir, I was master of that ship, my men have
mutinyed, and it is a favour they have put my mate,
this passenger, and me, on snore, without murdering
us, tho' we expect nothing but to perish here. Areyoitr
Enemies gone? said I. No replied he, (pointing to a
thicket) there they lie, while my heart trembles, lest
having seen and heard us, they should murder us all.
Have they fire-arms? said I. They haVe but two
pieces, said he, one of which is left in the boat: He
tojd me there were two x enormous villains among
them, that were the authors of this mutiny, who if
they were killed or seized, might induce the rest tore-
turn to their obedience. Well, well said I, let us
retire farther under the covering of the woods; and
there it was I made these conditions with him :.
I. That while they stayed in the island, they should
not pretend to any authority; but be entirely con-
formable to my orders, and return me the arms, which
I should put into their hands.
II. That if the ship was recovered, they should
afford Friday and I our passage gratis to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
defire, I gave each of them a gun, with powder and
ball susficient, advising them to sire upon them as they
lay. The captain modestly said, That he was sorry to
kill them, tho' on the other hand, to let these villains
escape, who were the authors of his misery, might be
the ruin of us all. should they bring the ship's com-
pany upon us. Well, said I, do as you think sit: And
so accordingly fired, killing one of the Captain's chiefest
.enemies, and wounded the other,. who eagerly called
for assistance; but the captain, (who had reserved his
piece) coming up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late
to call for ajfiflance, you jhould rather cry to God to par-
don your villainy; so knocked him down with the stock
of his gun ;. Three others were also slightly wounded,
who, at my approach, cried out for mercy. This the
captain granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the sliip, which they
solemnly did; however I obliged the captain to keep
them bound. After which I serfs Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to secure the boat, and bring away the oars
and fail; when at their return, three men coming
back, and seeing their late distreis'd captain, now their
conqueror, submitted to be bound also. And then it
was, that having more liberty, I related the adven-
tures of my whole life, which he heard with a serious
and wondersul attention. After this, I carried him
and his two men into my little fortisied castle, shewed
them all my conveniences, and refreshed them with
such provisions as I could afford. Whenthiswasover,
we began to consider about regaining the ship. He said,
. that there were 26 hands on board, who knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy
and mutiny, would grow so very hardened, that it
would be dangerous for our small company to attack
them. This was a reasonable inference indeed; but
something we did resolve on, and immediately put in
execution: For we heaved the boat upon the beach
so high, that she could not shoot off at high^water
mark, and broke a hole in her, not easily to be stop-
ped; and so all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged them to
fend another boat ashore, with ten men armed,
whose faces the captain plainly descried, the boat-
swain being the chief officer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage
(for I had perceived he was in concern) in the mean
while securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinel; but two others we took
into our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle. When the sailors land-
ed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they not
only halloo'd, but fired for their companions to hear,
yet they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered; then they made as if they would return
to the ship; I could perceive the captain's c»unte-
nance change at this, till of a sudden three men were
ordered to look after the boat, while the other seven
leaped on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions : And indeed they came to the brow of the hill,
near my antidnt castle, from whence they could fee a
great way into the woods, and there shouting and
hallooing till tired and weary, at length seated them*.
selves under a spreading tree. My opinion was, that
nothing could be done till night, when I might use
some artifice to get them out of the boat: But of a
sudden they all started up, and made to the sea-side:
Hereupon I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to
go over the creek, and halloo as loud as they could,
and so, decoying them into the woods, come round
*o me again, And this i ndeed had its eftect; for they
followed the noise, till coming westward to the creek,
they called for their boat to carry them over, taking
one of the men out of her, and leaving two to lobk
after her, having fastened her to the stump. of a little
tree on shore. Hereupon immediately the captain
and our party, passing the creek out of their sight,
we surprized them both, by the captain's knocking
down one, and ordering the other to surrender on pain
of death, and who, being the honestest of them all,
sincerely joined with us. By this time it was pretty
late, when returning to their boat, which they found
a-ground in the creek, the tide out, and the men
gone; they ran about, wringing their hands, crying
it was an inchanted island, and that theysliould be all
murdered by spirits or devils. My men would wil-
lingly have fallen upon them, but 1 would not agree
to hazard any of our party, But to be more certain,
Friday and the captain crawled upon their hands and
feet, as near as possible; and when the boatswain
approached in sight, so eager was the captain, that he
fired and killed him on the spot; Friday wounded
the next man, and the third ran away. Hereupon, I
advanced with my whole army, and, it being dark, I
ordered the man we had surprized with the boat, to
call them by their names, and to parley with them.
Accordingly he called out aloud, Tom Smith! Tom
Smith! He answered, Who's that? Robinson! The
other answered, For God's fake, Tom, surrrender im-
mediately, or you are all dead men. Who must we
surrender to? says Smith. To our captain and fifty
nun here, who have iaken me prisoner, wounded Will.
Frye, and killed the boatswain. Shall we have quar-
ters then? said he. Hereupon the captain calls out,
You, Smith, you know my voice; surrender immediately,
and you jhall all have your lives granted, except Will.
Atkins. Hereupon Atkins cried out, What have I done,
captain, more than the rest, who have been as bad as me?
But that was a lie, for he was the person that laid
hold of Tiim, and bound him. However, he was or-
dered to submit to the Governor's mercy, for such
was I called. And so, laying down their arms, we
bound them all, and seized on their boat."
After this, the captain expostulated with them, tell-
ing them, that the Governor was an Englijkman, v/ho
might execute them there; but he thought they would
be sent to England, except Will. Atkins, who was or-
dered to prepare for death next morning. Hereupon
Atkins implored the captain to intercede for his life,
and the rest that they might not be sent to England.
Thus answered our project sor seising the ship. For
lending Atkins, and two of the worst, fast bour.d, to the
cave, and the rest being committed to my bower, I sent
the captain, to tamper with them, in the Governor's
name, offering them pardon, if they would assist him
in recovering the ship. Upon which they all promised
to stand by him till their last drop of blood; and
whoever acted treacherously should be hanged in chains
upon the beach. They were all released on these as-
surances; and then the captain repaired the other
boat, making his passenger captain, with four men
well armed; while his mate, himself,. and five men.
more, went in.the other. By midnight they came
within call of the ship, when the captain ordered Ro-
binson to hale her, and tell them that, with great dif-
ficulty, they had found the men at last. But while
they were discoursing, the captain, his mate, and the
rest entered, and knocked down the second mate and
carpenter, secured those thst were upon deck, by put-
ting them under hatches, while the other boat's
crew entered, and secured the forecastle; then broke
into the round-house, where the mate, after some
resistance, (hot the pirate captain through the head;
upon which all the rest yielded themselves prisoners.
And thus the ship being recovered, the joysul signal
.was fired, which I heard with the greatest joy imagi.-
nable: Nor was it long before he brought the ship to
an anchor at the creek's mouth, when coming to me
unawares, There, fays he, my dearejl friend md deli-
verer, there is your jhip, and we are your servants; a
comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in his
arms, while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten-
derly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to consult what we'
should do with the prisoners, two os which he thought
not safe to take on board. Hereupon, concerting with
the captain, I dressed myself in one of his suits, and
fending for them, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they would tarry
there, their lives should be spared ; if not, they should
be hanged at the. first port we came to. They agreed
to stay. Hereupon I told them my whole story, charg-
P ing
ing them to "be kind to the Spaniards that were expected1,
gave them all my arms, and informing them of* every
tiring necessary scr their subsistence, I and my man
Friday went on board. But the next morning two of
the men came swimming.to the ship's side, desiring
the captain to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how barbarously
the others used them. Upon which I prevailed with
the captain to take them in, and being severely whip-
ped and pickled, they proved more honest for the su-
ture. And so I bid farewel to this island, carrying
along with me my money, parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap, setting sail Dec. 12, 1686, after twenty-
eight years, two months, and nineteen days residence,
that iaine day and month that I escaped from Satire,
landing in England, June 11, 1687, after thirty-five
years absence from my own country, which rendered
me altogether an utter stranger.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive, who
had buried a second husband, but in very mean cir-
cumstances, and whom I made mighty easy upon my
account. Soon after I went down to lorkjbir'c, w here
all my family were expired, except two sisters, and
?.f many of one of my brother's children. I found no
provision had been made scr me, they concluding I
had been long since dead; so that I was but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a great
kindness, by his report to the owners, how I had de-
livered their ship on the desolate island, upon which
they made me a present of 200I. sterling. I next went
to Lijhon, taking my man Friday with me, and arriv-
ing there in April, I met the Pcrtugae%« captain, who
took me on board on the African coast; but being an-
tient, he had left off the sea, and resigned all his busi-
ness to his son, who followed the Brajil trade. So
altered both of us were, that we did not know each
other at first, til] I discovered myself more sully to
him. After a few embraces, I begun to enquire after my
concerns, and then the old gentleman told me, that
it was nine years since he had been at B'rosil, where my
partner was then living, but my trustees were both
dead ; that it was his belief, I should have a good ac-
count of the product of my plantation ; that the ima-
gination of my being lost, had obliged my trustees t»
give an estimate of my share to the Procurator Fiscal,
who, in case of my not returning, had given one third
to the King, and the rest to the Monastry of St. Au-
gujline; but if I put in my claim, or any one for me,
it would be returned, except the yearly product, which
was given to the poor. I then desired him to tell me,
what improvement he thought had been made of my
plantation, and whether he imagined it was worth.
my while to look afeer it? He answered, he did not
know how much it was improved, but this he was cer-
tain of, that my partner was grown vastly rich upon
h's half of it; and that he had t>ce:i informed, that the
King had 200 moidores per annum, for his third part.
He added, that the survivors of my trustees were per-
sons of an ingenuous character ; that my partner could
witness my title,. my name being registered in the
country, by which means indisputably 1 should recover
considerable sums of money. But, answered 1, how
could my trustees dispose of my effects, when 1 made
yon only myheir? This, he said, w«s true, but there
being no affidavit mad;.. of my. death, he could not act
as an executor. However he had' ordered hi:. son,
(then at Brasil) to act by procuration upon my aa-
'count, and had taken postilion of my sugar-house,
having accounted himself for ei^ht years with my
partners and trustees for the profits, of which he
would give me a good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithsully in a.
fix days, making himself indebted to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, over and above what had been lost at
sea, after 1 had left th - place. And rhen he recounted
to me what misfortunes he had gone thro', which forced
my money out of his hands, to buy part in a new ship!
But (says he) you jh'allmi want', iakt this, nnd when my
H L Jen
son returns, every farthing jhall he paid you. Upon
which he put into my hand a purse of 150 moidores
in gold,' as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship in which his son was, and which he
offered as security for the remainder. But really
when I saw so much goodness, generosity, tender-
ness and real honesty, I had not the heart to accept it,
for fear he should straighten himself on my account.
'Tis true, said he, it may do so;. but the money is. yours,
not mine, and you may have the greate/i occasion for it.
However "I returned fifty of them, promising to give
him the other hundred, when I got my esfects in my
ljands, faying I designed to go myielf for that purpose.
But he told me, he could save me that trouble; and
so caused me to enter my name with a public notary,
as likewise my affidavit, with a procuration sixed to.
it; and he advised me to send in a letter to one of
his acquaintance, a merchant at Brastl; and indeed
nothing could be more faithsul and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months time I had a very faithsul
account of all my effects, what sums of money were
raised, what expended, and what remained for my
use: In a word, I found myself worth 4000I. ster-
ling, and iool. per annum. Norwas this all, for my
partner congratulated me upon my being alive,'telling
me how much my plantation Was improved, what ne-
groes were at work, and howmany Ave Marias he
had said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation, de-
firing me to accept kindly some presents he had sent
me, which I found shewed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my
faithsul captain, by returning him the hundred moi-
dores ; and not only forgiving him all he owed me, I
allowed him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now being resolved to
go to Ehgland, I returned letters of thanks to the
Prior of Sit. Augustine, and in particular to my old
partner, with very suitable presents. By the captain's
advice, I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England: .When,. as it hap-
pened, I got a young Englijly gentleman, a merchant's
"fon at Lijbon, to accompany me, together with two
.English and two Portuguese gentlemen; ib that with
a Portugexe servant,' an Englijh. sailor, and my man.
Friday, there were nine in number.
Thus, afmed and equipt, we set out, and came to
Madrid, when the summer decaying, we halted to
'Navarre, where we were informed that there was .
scarcely any passing, by reason of the prodigious quan-
tity of Snow; so that we were obliged to abide near.
twenty days at Psmpcluna, and at la.il to take a guide
to conduct us safe towards Thiulaase. And now twelve
other gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away our
guide led us by the frightsul mountains, and through
so" many intricate mazes and windings, that weinfcn-.
sibly past them, which, as we travelled along, ushered
.us to the prospect of the fruitsul and charming pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gajiogny.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical and
comical. ist, Our guide was encountered by three
.wolves and a bear, who set upon him and his horse,
and wounded him in three places: Upon which my
.man riding up to his assistance, shot one of them dead,
on which the others ran into the woods. But the plea-
santest adventure was, to fee my man attack the bear.
This creature, if let alone, will never meddle with
.you.;: And this my man Friday very well knew, and
-so begging leave of me in broken Englijh, he told us,
cpfc would make good laugh. Why, you filly fool, said I,
he'll eat you up at a mouthsul. Eatee me. up! replied
he, me eatee hi/n, and make much go:d lau^h. Upon
which. pulling off his boors, he claps on his pumjis,
and running after the monstrous boast,.and calls out,
that he wanted to speak with him; and then throwing
'stones on purpose to incense htm, the beast tur.:is about
.in a sury, and, .with prodigious strides, shuffles after
..' P. 3. . him.
him. But though he could not keep pace with Friday,
who made up to us as it were for help, yet, being an-
gry, You dog, said I, immediately take horse, and let us
Jhoot the creature. But he cried, Dear Majler, no jhoot,
me make you much laugh. And so he turned about,
making signs to follow, while the bear ran after him,
till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a minute,
leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor did the bear
make any difficulty of it, but, notwithstanding his
bulk, ascended like a cat. You must think I was
not a little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till we
rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted on the
oak, on the beginning of the fame branch to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear dare
not come. Hereupon Friday cried out, Now, Majler,
.me make much laugh, me make de bear dance. Upon
which he fell a shaking the bough, which made the
creature lock behind him to see how he could retreat.
Then, as if the bear had understood his stammering
Englifl), Why you no come farther, Mr. Bear? said he.
Pray Mr. hear, come farther: And then indeed w«
all burst into laughter, especially when we perceived
Friday drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving
the beast to make the best of his way down the tree.
And now thinking it the most convenient time to kill
him, Friday cried out, O dear Majler, no jhoot; me
jhoot by and by; when taking up the gun, Me no Jhoot
yet, said he, me make once more much laugh. And ac-
cordingly he was as good as his word, for the crea-
ture descending backwards from the tree very leisurtly,
before he could lay one foot on the ground, Friday
shot him through the ear stone-dead, and looking to
see if we were pleased, burst out into a hearty laugh,
saying, So we ki.'l bear in my country; not with gun,
hut much long arrow. Thus ended our diversion, to
our great satisfaction, especially in a place where the
terrible howlings struck us with continual terror. But
the snows now growing very deep, particularly on the
mountains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to.
seek for. sustenance in the villages, where coming by
surprize on the country people, killed several of them,
besides a great number of their sheep and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous
place to pass by; and if there were any more wolves
in.the.country, there we should sind them. This was
a small plain, encompassed with woods, to get through
a long lane, to the,village where we were to lodge.
When we entered the wood the sun was within half
an hour of setting; and a little after it was set, we came
into the plain, which was not above two surlongs over,
and then we saw five great wolves cross the road,
without taking notice of us, and so swift as tho' they
were pursuing aster their prey. Hereupou our guide,
believing there were more coming, defired us to be
upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes were very
circumspect, till about a league farther we saw a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its car-
cass. . My man Friday fain would have fired at them,
but I would not permit him: Nor had we gone half
over the plain, but we heard dreadsul howlings in a
wood on our left, whan presently we saw an hundred
. c^ome up against us, as though they had been an ex-
perienced army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner; and then! ordered that every other
man should fire, that those who did not might be ready
to give a second yoUey, mould they advance upon us;
and (hen every man to make use of his pistols. But
there was no necessity for this; for the enemy being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire; four of them
were shot dead, and several others being wounded,
went bleeding away, as we could very plainly discover
by the snow, And now remembering what had been
often told me, that such was the majesty of a man's
voice, as to strike terror even into the fiercest crea-
tures, I ordered all our companions to holloo as loud
as possible: And in this notion 1 was not altogether
mistaken; for they immediately turned about upon the.
first halloo, and began to.retire: Upon which, or-
dering a second volley in their rear, they galloped in-
to the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could on our
way: But we had not rode far before we were obliged
to put ourselves in a posture of defence as before,
being alarmed with a very dreadsul noise in the same
wood on bur left hand, the same way as we were to-
pass, only that it was at some distance from us. By
this time the darksome. clouds began to spread over
the elements, and the light growing very dusky, made.
it so much the more to our disadvantage: But the
roise still encreasmg more, we were sully assured, that
it was the howling and yelling of those ravenous
creatures; when presently three troops of wolves,
oh our front, appeared to our sight, as tho' all these
companions had a design to surround us, and devour
us in spite 9s fate. But as they did not fall upon us
immediately, we proceeded 011 our journey in the
swiftest manner that the v ds would permit our horses,
which was only a large trot. It was in this manner
we travelled, till such time as we discovered another
wood, and had the prospect of its entrance, through.
which were to pass at the farthest side of the plain.
But surely none can express the tenor we were in,
when approaching the lane, we perceived a consused
number of the fiercest wolves standing, and as it were,
guarding its entrance. Nor were we long in this
amazement, before another occasion of horrer pre-
sented itself: For suddenly we heard the report of .a
gun at another opening into the wood ; and looking
that way, out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying
with the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixften
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to devour
the poor creature: And unquestionably they did so,
."* . alter
aster they had run him down, not being capable to hold
out that swiftness with which he at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the horse came forth, there lay the carcasses of two
men and another horse, mangled 'and torn by these
devouring wolves: And undoubtedly one of these
men was the person who fired the gun, which we
had heard, for the piece lay by him; but alas ! most
of the upper part of his body and his head was en-
tombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
yWhat course to take, whether to proceed or retreat,
we could not tell; but it was not long before.the
wolves themselves made us come to a resolution : For.
such numbers surrounded us, every one of whom ex-
pected their prey, that were our bodies to be divided
among them, there would not be half a mouthsul
a-piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us, that
but a little way from the entrance, there lay some very
large timber trees, which I supposed had been cut
down and lay there for carriage, among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us for a breast-work;
when, desiring them to alight, we stood in a triangle,
or three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre,
the only place where we could preserve them.
Never certainly was a more surious charge than
what the wolves made upon us in this place ; and the
sight of the horses, which was the principal prey they
aimed at, provoked their hunger, and added to their
natural fierceness. They came on us with a most
dreadsul noise, that made the woods ring again, a»*d
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I ordered
every other man to fire as before directed ; and indeed
so well did they take their aim, that they killed several
of the wolves at the first volley; but still we were
obliged to keep a continual firing, by reason they
came on like devils, pushing one another with the
greatest sury. But our second volley something
abated their courage; when stopping a little, we hoped
they .
they would have made the best of their way, however
it did not prove so, for others made a new attempt
upon us: And tho' in four firings we killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, laming twice as many ; yet they
came on several times successively, as though they va-
lued not their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last snot too suddenly:
and therefore called my other servant, and giving him
.a horn of powder, bid him lay a large train quite
along the timber, which he did, while Friday was
charging my suzee and his own, with the greatest
dexterity. By this time the wolves coming up the
timber, I set fire to the train, by snapping a dis-
charged pistol close on the powder. This so scorched
and terrified them, that some fell down, and others
jumped in among us with the strength and terror of
the flame, but these we immediately dispatched^ when
all the rest, frightened with the light, which the dark-
some night caused to appear more dreadsul, began at
length to retire: Upon which, ordering our last pis-
tols to be fired at once, giving at the fame time a
great shout, the wolves were obliged to have recourse'
to their swiftness by turning tail ; and then we sillied
out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces
with our swords, which obliged them to howl La-
mentably, to the terror of their fellow devourers, who
resigned to us the sield, as victorious conquerors.
And, indeed, I question whether Alexander, King of
Macedtm, in any of his conquests, had more occasion
for triumph than we had ; for he was backed by nu-.
merous captains and soldiers of the greatest courage,
constancy, and resolution; whereas pur little army
was obliged to combat a legion of devils,'as it wcre>
worse than canibals', who, had they flain us, would
have sacrificed us the fame moment, to satisfy their
voracious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, hav-
ing killed threescore of them, and saved our lives from
their sury. We still had a league to go farther,
when,
wnen, as we went, our tars were saluted with'their
most unwelcome howling?, expecting every moment
another attack. But, in iu. hour's time, we arrived
"safe at the town where we were "to lodge; and here we
found the plao; strictly guarded, and ail in terrible
Consusion, as well they might, by reason of the bears
and wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged so take a new guide, by reason the
other fell very bad of his wounds, which he had re-
ceived, as before-mentioned. After *w e had .reached
Thoulouse, we came into a warm, pleasant, and fruit-
fulxountry, not infested with wolves, nor any fort
of ravenous creatures: And when we told our story
there, they much blamed our guide, for conducting
us through the forest at the foot of the mountains,
and in such a sevare leason, when the snow obliged
them to seek for shelter in the woods. When we
informed them in what manner we placed ourselves,
and the horses in the centre, then they exceedingly
reprehended us, and told us, it was an hundred to
one but we had all been destroyed; for that it was
the sight of the horses, their so much desired prey,
made the wolves more raging'.y surious than they
would have been; which was evident, by their being
at other times really afraid of a gun but then, be-
ing exceedingly hungry and surious upon that account,
their eagerness to come at the horses made them in-
sensible of their danger; .and that if we had not by
a continual sire, and at last, by the cunning strata-
gem of the train of powder, got the power over them,
it had been great odds if their number had not over-
powered us: Besides, it was a great mercy we alighted
from our horses, and fought them with that courage
and conduct, which, had we failed to do, every man
of us, with our beasts, had been devoured. And in-
deed this was nothing but truth; for, never in my
life was I so sensible of danger, as when 300 di.vi)s
came roaring upon us; to lhun whose unwelcome
company,
company, if I was sure to meet a storm every week, I
woold rather go a thousand leagues by sea.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through Frame to take notice of, since other travellers
cf greater learning and ingenuity, have given a more
ample account, than my pen is able to set forth.
From Thoulouse I travelled to Parts, from thence to
Calais, where I rook stripping, and.landed at Dover
the 14th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus came to the centre of my travels, I soon dis-
covered my new-found estate, and all the bills of ex-
change I had brought were currently paid. The good
ancient widow, my only Privy-Counsellor, thought
no pains or care too great to procure my advantage;
nor had I ever occasion to blame her sidelity, which
drew from me. an ample reward. I was for leaving
my effects in her hands, intending to set out for Lis-
bon, and so to the Brasth ; but as in the desolate Island
I had some doubts about the Romish religion, so I
knew there was little encouragement to settle there,
without I would apostatize from the orthodox faith,
or live in continual fear ofthe inquisition. Upon this
account I resolved to sell my plantation, and to this
intent I wrote to my old friend at Lijbon, who return-
ed me an answer, to my great satisfaction, which was,
that he could readily fell it there: However, if Ithought
it convenient to give him liberty to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, residing at the Brasils, who consequently un-
derstood its intrinsic value, having lived just upon the
soot, and who I was sensible were very rich, and there-
fore might be the more willing to purchase it; he did
not in the least doubt, but I should make 4 »r 5000
pieces of eight more of it, than I should do if I dis-
posed of it anv other manner whatsoever.
You may be lure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous proposal; and immediately I sent
.him an order to offer it unto them, which he accord-
ingly did: So that about eight months after, thesoip
being
in that time returned, he gave me a satisfactory ac-
count that they not only willingly accepted the offer,
but that they had also remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight, to a correspondent of their own at
Lijbon, in order to pay for its purchase.
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument of
sale, according to form, which they had sent from
Lijbon, and returned it again to my old friend, he
haying sent me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of eight, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores per annum; which
I had allowed him during life, as also fifty to his son
during life, according to my faithsul promise, which
the plantation was to make good as rent-charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the first part of my life, so remarkable for the many
peculiar providences that attended it, floating in an
ocean of uncertainty and disappointment, of adversity
and prosperity, beginning foolishly, and yet ending
happily; methinks, now I am come to a safe and
pleasant haven,'tis time to cast out my anchor, and,
laying up my vessel, bid (for a while) 'adieu to fo-
reign adventures. I had now other concerns to look
after, the care of my brother's two sons, which, with
the good widow's persuasions, obliged me to continue
at home seven years. One of these children I bred
up a. gentleman, and the other an experienced sailor^
remarkable for his courage and bravery. Besides
this I married a virtuous young gentlewoman, of a
very good family, by whom I had two sons and one
daughter. But my dear and tender wife leaving this
earthly stage (as you will hear in the second part of
my life, which rending my soul as it it were asunder,
my native country became as it were tiresome to me:
And my nephew happening to come from sea, tempted
me to venture another voyage to the Eajl-Indies^
which I did in the year 1694, at which time I visited
my island, and informed myself of every thing that
happened since my departure.
*? One
One might reasonably imagine, that what I had suf-
fered, together with an advanced age, and the fear
of losing not only what I had gotten, but my life al-
so, might have choaked up all the seeds of youthful
ambition and curiosity, and put a lasting period to
my wandering inclinations. But, as nothing but death
can sully allay the active part of my life, no less re-
markable for the many various contingencies os it:
You will there perceive how I visited my little king-
dom, saw my successors the Spaniards, had an account
of the usage they met with from the EngKjhmen^
agreeing and disagreeing, uniting and separating, till
at last they were subjected to the Spaniards, who yet
used them very honourably; together with the won-
derful and successsul battles over the Indians, who
invaded, and thought to have conquered the island,
but were repelled by their invincible courage and
bravery, having taken eleven men and five women pri-
soners ; by which, at my return, I found about twen-
ty young children on my little kingdom. Here I stayed
twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary things,
as also a carpenter and smith, and shared the island
into parts, reserving the whole property to mysejf.
Nor will you be insensible, by the account of these
things, of several new adventures I have been engaged
in, the battles I have fought, the deliverances I have
made thereon: And while, in the surprising relation
of such remarkable occurrences, I shall describe many
of God's kindest providences to me in particular;
no less conspicuous in the fame goodness, power and
majesty of our great Creator,'* shewn, one way or
other, over the face of the earth.
THE
THE
FARTHER ADVENTURES
i i
> OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Wherein ere contained several Jlrange and surprising
accounts of his travels, and mojl remarkable trans-
a£lienst both by sea and land.
WHEN we consider the puissant force of
nature, and what mighty influence it has
many times over the temper of the mind ;.
it will be no such great wonder to think
that my powersul reason should be overcome by a
much stronger inclination. My late acquired king-
dom ran continually in my thoughts all the day, and
I dreamt os it in the »ight; nay, I made it the conti-
nual subject of my talk, even to impertinence, when
I was awake. I had such vapours in my head,. that
I actually supposed myself at my castle: That I not
only perceived Friday's father, the old Spaniard, and
the wicked sailors; but that I talked and discoursed
with them about their manner of living: That I
heard those things. related to me, which I found af-
. .. .' P 3 terwatds
ferwards to be but too true; and that I executed my
judgments with the greatest severity upon the offenders.
And indeed this anticipating all the pleasing joys of
my life, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour; my
dear and tender wife could not but take notice of it,
which drew these affectionate speeches from her:
My dear, said she, I am really persuaded that some secret
impulse from heaven occasions in you a determination to
see the ijland again: Nor am I less senjible, but yeur
biing engaged to me and these dear children, is the only
hindrance of your departure. I know, my dear, if I
was in the grave, you would not long continue at home:
Prevent not your happiness upon my account, whose only
comfort centers in you. All that I can objeiJ is, that
such an hazardous undertaking is no way confident. svith
a person ef your years; but if you are resolved to go,
(added flie weeping) only permit me to bear you company,
and that is all that I desire.
. Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most
innocent,' and yet most powersul charms, brought me
insensibly into my right understanding: And when I
considered all the transactions of my life, and partr-
cularly my new engagement; that I had now one
child alread) born, and my wife big of another; and
that I had no occasion to seek for more riches,. who
already was blefled with sufficiency; with much strug-
gling, I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to ap-
ply myself to some business or other, which might put
a period to such wandering inclinations. Hereupon I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, with a
resolution to move thither: Upon this there was a
pretty convenient house, surrounded with land, very
capable of improvement, which suited mv temper,
as to planting, managing, and cultivating. faor was I
long before I entered upon my new settlement, having
bought ploughs, harrows, cart, waggon, horses,
cows and sheep ; so that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and was as happy in my retirement as the
grearest
greatest monarch in the world. And what made me
^hink my happiness the greater was, that I was in
that middle state of life which my father had so often
recommended, much resembling the felicity 'of a
rural retirement, which is elegantly described by the
poet in these lines,
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, ana youth no snare.
But in the midst of this my chiefest happiness, I
was suddenly plunged into the greatest sorrow that I
could possibly endure: For, when 1 least expected it,
my dear and tender wife was forced to submit to the
irresistible power of death, leaving this transitory life
fora better. It is impossible for me to express the
beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her person;
neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
latest breath shall record. Her influence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the im-
portunities of friends, the instructions of a father, or
the melting tears of a tender and disconsolate mother:
In a word, she was the standard of all my affairs, the
center of my enterpriz.es, and the principal engine
to direct me in the course to happiness, But now;
since the cruel hand of death had closed my dearest's
eyes, in my thoughts I seemed a stranger so the world;
my Privy-Counsellor being gone, I was like a ship
without a pilot, and that could only run before the
wind.. And when I looked around me in this bitsy .
world, one part labouring for bread, and the other
squandering away their estates; this put me in mind
how l had lived. in my little kingdom* where both
reason and religion dictated to me, that there was
something that certainly was the reason and end of.
life, which was far superior to what could be hoped
for on this side the grave. My country delightswere
now. as insipid and dull as music or sense to those who
have neither taste or ingenuity.. In short, resolving
to leave off house-keeping, I left my farm, and. in a
few mouths returned to London.. . ' ' . But
But neither could that great city, so famous for it*
variety of entertainments, afford me any agreeable
delight. A state of idleness I found to be the very.
dregs of life, and most hurtsul to body and soul. It
was now the beginning of the year 1693, at which
time my nephew (who I before observed had been
brought up to the sea, and advanced to be captain of*
a ship) was returned from a short voyage to Bilboa^
the first he had made in that station. He comes to me
one morning, telling me, that some merchants of his
acquaintance had proposed to him to go a voyage for
them to the Eali Indies and China, in the manner of
private traders: And now, Uncle, said he, if you'll
accompany me thither, I'll engage to land you upon your
eld island, there to behold the Jiate of your little kingdom.
It was just before he came in, my thoughts were
fixed to get a patent for its possession, and then to fill
it with inhabitants. After I had paused a little while,
and looked steadfastly. on him, What devil, or spirits
said I, sent you with this unlucky errand? He startled
at first, but recovering himself, when he perceived I
was not offended: Sir, replied he, what I have pro-
posed cannot, I hope, be stiled unlucky, since cer-
tainly you must be defirous to fee your little territory,
where you reigned with more content than any of your
brother Kings in the universe. Nephew, said I, if
you will leave me there, and eall forme as you come
back, I care not if I give my consent: But he an-
swered, that the merchants would not allow their ves-
sel, laden with an infinite value, to return there again,
which was a month's fail out of the way: Besides,
Sir, said he, supposing I should miscarry, was your re-
quell granted, why then you would be in the fame
state as before. This indeed carried a great deal of
reason in it, but we found out a remedy, and that
was, to carry a framed sloop on board, ready to be
set up in the island, by the assistance of some carpen-
ters which we should carry with us, that would be
fitted
fitted in a. few days to go to sea. I was not song form-
ing my resolution, which overswaycd my good friend;
the widow's persuasions, and the natural affection. L
and settled my estate in. such a manner, that I was per-
fectly easy that the poor infants would have justice
done them. The good widow not only undertook to'
make provision for my voyage, but also took the charge
of my domestic affairs, and to provide for my children's
education; and indeed no mother could take more
care^ or understood that office better, which I lived to
reward, and to return her my hearty thanks for.
The beginning of "January 1694-5, my nephew
being ready to fail, I and Friday went on board in the
Downs on the 8th; having, besides that sloop already
mentioned, a very considerable cargo for my new co-
lony. First, I had some servants, whom I proposed to
leave there as inhabitants, or to work while I stayed
there, as they should appear willing: There were two
carpenters, a smith, and a very ingenious fellow who
was Jack of all trades; for he was not only a cooper
by trade, but was also dexterous at making wheels
and hand-mills to grind corn, likewise a good turner
and a good pot-maker. I also carried a taylor, who
consented to stay in my plantation, and proved a most
necessary fellow in the island. As to my cargo, it
consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and Englljh
stuffs, for cloathing the Spaniards that 1 expected to
find there; as likewise gloves, hats, (hoes, stockings;
together with beds, bedding, and houshold-stuff,"
especially kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, &c. also nails, tools of all forts, staples, hooks,
hinges, and all other things necessary; all which, I
think, cost me about 300/. Nor was this all, for I
carried an hundred spare arms, muskets, and suzees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of several
sorts of shot, two brass cannon, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part for some pikes and halberts;

children. I made my willr
and
and I made my nephew take with us two small quar-
ter-deck. guns more than he had occasion for in his
ship, to leave behind, if there was a necessity: so.
that we might build a fort there, and man it against
all oppoferS whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea; and though I can't say
this voyage was so unprosperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us so far northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland,
where we lay wind-bound two and twenty days.
Here indeed our provisions were very cheap, and we
added to our ship's stores, by taking in several live
hogs, two cows and calves, which I then resolved to
put on shore in my islands if our necessities did not
call for them. On the 5th of February we sailed from
Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for some
days ; and, I think it was about the 20th of the fame
month, late in the evening, when the mate informed'
us, that he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and while he was speaking, a boy came in, and told
us the boatswain heard another. Upon which, we all
ran to the quarter-deck, from whence, in a few mi-
nutes, we perceived a terrible fire at a distance. We
had immediate recourse to our reckonings, in which we
were all of opinion that there could be no land that
way, it appearing to be at N. N. IV. Hereupon we
concluded that some ship had taken fire at sea, and
that it could not be far osf, by the report of the guns
which we had heard. We made up directly to it, and.
in half an hour's time, the wind being fair, we could
plainly perceive a great ship on fire in the middle of
the sea. Touched with this unhappy disaster, and
considering my former circumstances, when the Por-
tuguese captain took me up, I immediately ordered
five guns to be fired, that the poor creatures (not fee-.
ing us, it being dark, as we could perceive their flame)
might be sensible there . was a deliverance at hand,
ana consequently might endeavour to save themselves
int.
in their boat. Nor was it long before the ship blew
up in the air, and the sire extinguished in the ocean.
But supposing them all to be in their boats, we hung
out all our lanthorns, and kept firing till eight o'clock
in the morning; when, with our profpectives, we be-
held two boats, sull of people, making towards us,
though the tide was against them. Then spreading
out our antient, and hanging out a waft as a signal for
them to come on board, in half an hour's time we
came up to them, and took them all in, there being
no less than 64 men, women and children. It was a
French merchant ship of 300 tons, homeward bound
from Quebec in the river of Canada. The master in-
formed me, how by the negligence of the steersman,
the steerage was set on fire; that at his outcry for
help, the fire was, as they thought, totally extin-
guished ; but that some sparks getting between the
timber and between the cieling, it proceeded into the
hold, where there was no resisting it; that then they
got into their boats, as creatures in the last extremity,
with what provision they had^ together with oars, fails,
and a compass, intending to go back to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing at S. E. and bv E. tho' there were
several chances against them, as sWms to overset and
founder them, rains and colds to benumb and perish
their limbs, and contrary winds to keep them out
and starve them: But, said he, in this our great dis-
tress, we heard the welcome report of your guns,;
when, with unspeakable joy, taking down our masts'
and sails, we were resolved to lie by till morning ; but
perceiving your light, we set our oars at work to keep
our boat a-head, the sooner to attain your ship, the
happy instrument of our deliverance.
Indeed no one can express the joy of these poor crea-
tures on this occasion: Fear and grief are easily set
forth: Sighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and head, make up the sum of its variety:
But an excess or surprize of joy carries in it a thou-
.' \ sand
sand extravagances; especially, I think, amongst the
French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile*
passionate, sprightly and fluid, than in other kingdoms.
Some were either weeping, tearing themselves in the.
greatest agonies of sorrow, and running stark raving
mad ab'out the ship; while the rest were stamping with.
their feet, wringing their hands, singing, laughing,
swooning away, vomiting, fainting; with a few, re-.
turning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and crossing
themselves. I think, if I am not mistaken, our fur-.
geon was obliged to let thirty of them blood. But
among the passengers there were two priests, the one
an old, and the other a young man; but what amazed
me more, the oldest was the worst : For, no sooner
did he perceive himself freed from danger, but he
dropped down as it were without life, and to every-
one's appearance, quite dead; but the surgeon, chaf-
ing and rubbing his arm, he opened a vein, which.
at first dropped, and then flowing more freely, the old
man began to open his eyes, and in a quarter of are
hour was well again. But soon revolving his happy
change, the joy of which whirled his spirits about
faster than the vessels could convey them, his blood
became so feverish, as made him more fit for bedlam.
than any other place; but the surgeon giving him a.
sleepy dose, he was perfectly composed next morning.
Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the young
priest. At his entrance on board the ship, he fell on.
his face in the most humble prostration to the Al-
mighty. I thought indeed he had fallen into a swoon*
and so ran to help him up; but he modestly told me*
he was returning his thanks to the Almighty, desiring
me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to*
his Creator, he would return me thanks also. And
indeed he did so about three minutes after, with great
seriousness and affection, though the tears stood in his
eyes, which consirmed the gratitude of his soul. Nor
did he less shew his piety and wisdom, in applying
*..»*. J himself
pose them by the most powersul reasons, arguments,
and persuasions. And when, indeed these people had
taken their night's repose, in such convenient lodg-
ings as our ship would allow, we found nothing but
the best of manners, and the most civil acknowledg-
ments, for which the French are eminently remarkable.
The next day the captain and one of the priests, de-
sired to speak with me and my nephew the com-
mander. They told us, that they had saved some
money and valuable things out of the ruined vessel,
which was at our service, only that they defired to be
set on more some where in our way. At the first,
my nephew was for accepting the money; but I, (who
knew how hard my cafe would have been, had the
Portugueze captain served me so) persuaded him to the
contrary; and therefore told them, that as we had
done nothing but what we were obliged to do by rea-
fon and humanity, and what we ourselves might ex-
pect from others in such calamity; so we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them, or leave them na-
ked upon the land, to perish for want of subsistence,
and therefore would not accept their money: But as
to landing them, that was a great difficulty; for being
bound to the Eajl Indies, it was impossible wilsully to
change ourroyage upon this particular account, nor
my nephew (who was under charter-party to pursue
it by way of Brasil) answer it to the freighters. All
that we could do was, to put ourselves in the way of
Indies, that if possible they might get a passage to France
'or England. Indeed they were very thanksul for our
first kindness; but were Under great concern, espe-
cially their passengers, at their being carried to the Eajl
Indies. They begged therefore I would keep oh the
banks of Newfoundland, where probably they might
meet with some (hip or sloop to carry them to Canada,
whence they came. As this was but a reasonable re-
quest,
meeting some ships homeward

quest, I was inclined to grant it, since it was no breach
of charter-party; and that the laws of God and na-
ture obliged us to do what good we could to our fel-
low creatures; and besides, the danger we ourselves
should be in for want of provisions: So we consented
to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; if not, that we should carry them to
Martlnico in the Wejl Indies. But, as it happened,
in a week's time we made the banks of Newfoundland..
where the: French people hired a bark to carry them to
France. But the young priest being desirous to go to
the East Indies, I readily agreed to it, because I liked
his conversation; and two or three of the French sailors
also entered themselves onboard our ship.
Now directing our course for the West Indies, steer-
ing S. and S. hy E. about 20 days with little wind,
another adventure happened to exercise our humanity.
In the latitude of 17 degrees 5 m. north, the 19th
of Marsh 1694-5, we perceived a fail, (our course
S. E. and by S.) which bore up to us, and then she ap-
peared to be a large vessel, having lost her main-top-
mast, fore-mast, and bolt-sprit, when firing a gun,
as a signal of distress, wind N. M W. we soon came
to. spealf with her. She was a ship of Bristol, bound
home from Barbadoes, out of which road she had been
forced by a hurricane to the. westward, in which they
lost their masts: 'They told us, their expectations
were to fee the Bahama Islands, but were driven away
by a strong wind at N. N. W. and having no fails,
to work the ship with, but the main course, and a kind
of square sail upon a jury fore-mast, because they
could not come near the land, were endeavouring to
stand for the Canaries. Nay, what was worse, besides
all their satigue, they were almost starved for want of
provision, having eat nothing for 11 days, all that
they had a-board was sugar, a cask of fresh water,
and seven casks of rum. In this ship were three pas-
sengers; a youth, his mother, and a maid servant,
food. If I had not gone on board their ship, this
knowledge of their misery had been concealed from
me", and they would have inevitably perished, tho' in-
deed their second mate (who was captain, by reason
the true.captain was not on board when the hurricane
happened) had before informed me, that there were
such persons on board, whom he supposed to be dead,
being afraid to enquire after them, because he had no-
thing to give them for relief. Hereupon we resolved
to let them have what we could spare, ordering the
mate to bring some of his men on board us, which
.he did. accordingly, yet bath he and they looked like
skeletons; and when meat was'set before them, I
ordered them toeat sparingly. But, however, they soon
fell sick, which obliged the surgeon to mix something
in their broth, that was to be to them both food and
physic. When they were fed, we ordered our mate
to carry them a sack of bread, and sour or five pieces
of beef to boil; but the surgeon charged them to see
it boiled, and to keep a guard in the Qook-room, to
.prevent.the men eating it raw, and consequently kill
themselves with what was designed for their relief.
.But particularly I defired the mate to fee what con-
dition the poor passengers were in, and the surgeon
gave him a pitcher of the fame broth which he had
prepared for the men: And being curious to fee this
scene of misery myself, I took the captain, (as we
called the mate of the ship) in our own boat, and
failed after them. .
Here was a fad sight indeed! Scarce was the vic-
tuals half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to
break open the cook-room door. To stay their sto-
machs, the mate gave them biscuits, which were dipt
in, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which
.they call Brewis; telling them it was for their own
safety, that he was obliged to give them but a little
at a time; and so feeding them gradually; their bellies
^' Q_ were
were. comfortably filled, and the men did very well
again. But when they came to the poor gentlewo-
man in the cabin, who for several days continued with-
out food, giving what she had to her son, they found
her as it were in the arms'of death. She was sitting
upon the floor of the deck, with her back up against
the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast,
and her head shrunk between her shoulders, like a
senseless corps. Nothing was wanting in my mate to
revive and encourage her, opening her lips, and put-
ting some broth into her mouth with a spoon. But
not having strength to speak, she lifted up her head
with much difficulty, intimating that it was now too
late ; at the some time pointing to the youth, her son,
as though she defired him, to do what he could to
save him; and, in a little time after, she died.
The youth indeed was not so far gone; yet lay
stretched out in a cabin bed like one that had scarce
any life: In his mouth was a piece of an old glove,
the rest of which he had eat up. At first he vomited
up what the mate had given him; but at length be-
gan sensibly "o revive, though in the greatest concern
for the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid she lay by her mistress like one
in the latest pangs of death: Her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame
of a chair, which she griped so hard, that it was with
some difficulty we separated her from it; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together,
set fast against the frame of the cabin table; not only
being starved with hunger, but overcome with grief
for the loss of her mistress, whom she loved most
tenderly. It was a great while before the surgeon
could bring her to life, and a much longer time before
she came to her senses. , .
After we had sailed with them some days, we sent
them five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogs-
heads of biscuit, with pease, flour, and other things,
taking
takiitg three casks of sugar; seme'rum, and some
,pieces of eight for satisfaction, we left. them, b.ut took
the youth and maid with us, with all their goods.
The lad was about 17 years old, very handsome, mo-
dest, sensible, and well bred, but mightily concerned
for the loss of his honoured mother, having lost his
father at Barb tuba but a few months before. Hebe-
seeched the surgeon to intercede with me to take him
out of the ship; for that the sailors, not sparing a
small sustenance, had murdered his mother. But
hunger has no bounds, no right, and consequently is
incapable of any compassion. When the surgeon told
him that our voyage might put him in bad' circum-
stances, and farther from his friends, he answered, he
did not care so he was but delivered from that terrible
crew: That as the captain (meaning me) had saved
him from death, s6 he was sure that he would.do him
no harm ; and as for the maid, when she was restored
to her senses, me would be no less thanksul, let us
carry them where we would; And indeed the surgeon
so represented their case to me, that I consented, and -
took them ;on board, with all their goods, except ir
hogsheads of sugar ; but the youth having a bill of
lading, I made the commander sign awriting, to oblige
him t» deliver a letter and the deceased widows goods,
to Mr Rogers, a merchant at Biijlol: but I believe
tfie ship was lost at sea, for we could never hear what
became of her afterwards. We were now in the la-
titude of ig deg. 32 min. having as yet a tolerable
good voyage, But, passing by several little incidents
relative to wind and weather, I shall relate what is
more remarkable concerning my little kingdom, which
I was then drawing near. I had great difficulty in
attaining it; for as I came to, and went from it be-
fore, on the south and east of the island, as coming
from the Braf.h; so now approaching between the
main and the island, not having any chart of the coast,
nor land-mark, H obliged us "to. go on shore several
"Q_ 2 islands,
islands, on the mouth of the great river Oroanoko, but
to no purpose. Then I perceived, that what I thought
was a continent before, was no such thing, but a.iong
island, or rather a ridge of sand. On one of these
islands, I found some Spaniards, but they belonged to
the Isle de Trinidad, who came hither in a sloop to
make salt, and find some pearl muscles, if they could.
But al length I came fair on the south side of my
island, and then I presently knew the countenance of
my little kingdom; so we brought the ship safe to an
anchor, with her broadside to the little creek, where
stood my antient and venerable castle.
No sooner did I see the place, but calling for Friday ,
I asked him where he was? But when he looked a lit-
tle, he clapped his hands, crying, 0 joy, 0 there, O
yes, O there! pointing to our old abode, and then fell
a dancing and capering as if he vvas mad j and I had
much ado to keep him from^jumping into the sea, to
swim astiore. Friday, said I, what do you think, shall
we see your father? At the mentioning his father's
name, the poor affectionate creature fell a weeping:
No no (fays he.) me fee him no more, never see poor fa-
ther more! be long ago die, die long ago; pe much old
man. You don't know that Friday, said I, but shall
we see any body else f He looks about, and pointing
to the hill above my house, he crias out, We see! ive
see! there much men, and there! vJhich, tho' I could
not perceive them with my perspective glass, was
true, by what the men themselves told me the next
day.
When the Englijh-Ancient was spread, and three
guns fired as a signal of friendship, we perceived a
smoke rise from the creek ; upon which I ordered the
boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging out a
white flag of truce, I went on shore, accompanied
also by the young Friar, to whom I had related the
hislory of the first part of my life. Besides, we had
sixteen men well armed, in cafe we had met with any
exposition. After
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the first
man I sixed my eye upon was the Spaniard, whose
life I had saved, and whose face I perfectly well'
knew. I ordered them all to stay in the boat for a
while; but Friday perceiving his father at a distance,
would have jumped into the sea had they not let him.
go. No sooner was he on shore; but he flew like a'
swift arrow out of a bow, to embrace his ancient fa-
ther. ' Certainly it Would melt a man of the firmest
re blution, into the softest tears, to fee with what
uncommon transports of joy he saluted him. He sirst
k IT d him, then stroked his face, took him in his
arms, laid him under a shady tree, fat down by him,.
then looked as earnest at him as one would do at a
picture, fora quarter of an hour together. After this
he would lie upon the ground, stroke his legs, and.
kiss them, then get up and stare at him as though he
was bewitched: But the next day one could not for-
bear laughter, to s.e his behaviour ; for he would walk
several hours with his father along the shore, leading
him by the hand as though he was a lady, while every'
now and then he would rifn to the boat to get some-
thing for him; as a lump of sugar,' dram, biscuit*
or something or other that was good. His frolics ran
in another channel in the afternoon; for, when Ke
set old Friday on t'ie ground, he would dance round
him, making comical postures and gestures; and all
this while would be telling him one story or other of
his travels and adventures..
It was On the joth ot April, Anno 169.5, that I set
my foot upon the island a second time. When my.
faithsul Spaniard, accompanied by one more, ap,y
pfesiched the boat; He little knew who I was, tilt
I discovered myself to him: Seigniir, said I, in Pir-
tugueze, dont you know me? He spoke never a word y
but, giving his musket to his attendant, extended his
arms, and swing something in Spcmijh that 1 did not
then understand, hs came forward and embraced me;
^ saying;
say ing,.be was inexcusable, not to know his deliverer,
who, like an angel lent from heaven, had su ed his life.
He then beckoned to the man to call out his compa-
nions; asking me if I would walk to my own habita-
tion, and take possession, where I should find some
mean improvements; hut indeed they were extraor-
dinary ones; for they had planted so many trees, so
close together, that the place was like a labyrinth,.
which none could sind out except themselves, who
knew its intricate windings. I asked him the mean-
ing of all these fortifications ; he told me, he would
give me a large account of what had past since my da-
parture to this time, and how he had subdued some
Englijh who thought to be their murderers, hoping I
would not be displeased, since necessity compelled them
to it. As I knew they v\ ere wicked villains, I told
him, that I was not only far from finding fault with
if, but was rather heartily glad they had subdued them.
But while we were talking, the man whom he had
sent returned, accompanied by eleven more; but in
such habits, thatlt was impossible to tell what nations
they were of. He first turned to me, pointing to
them; These, Sir, said he, are some of the gentle-
men who owe their lives to'your goodness; and then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made them
sensible who I was: And then indeed they saluted me
one by one, not as ordinary men, but as though they
had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I a triumphant
conqueror: For their behaviour not only agreed
with a manlike, majestic gravity, but, at the same
time, was so obliging and courteous, .as made them
admirable to the last degree. . . .. (. \
Before I relate the history of the transactions of my
Kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own mouth,
I must here insert. what I omitted in my former rela-
tion. The matter.is this: Just before we weighed
anchor to set sail, there happened a quarrel on board
the stiip, which had like to have occasioned a second
mutiny,
mutiny, till such time as the courageous captain, tak-
ing two of the most resractory prisoners, he laid them
in irons, threatening them, as they were concerned
in the former disorders, to have them hanged in Eng-
land for running away with the ship. This frightened
some of the rest, as thinking the captain would serve
them in the same manner, tho' he seemed to give them
good words for the present. But the mate, having
intelligence of this, made me acquainted with their
fears; so that to make them more easy, and ourselves
more safe from their conspiracies, I was obliged to go
down, and pass my Honour's word for it, that, upon
their good behaviour, all that was past should be par-
doned ; in testimony of which, I ordered the two men's
irons to.be taken off, and themselves forgiven. But
as this had brought us to an anchor that m'ght, in .
which there was a calm, the two men that had b>en
in irons, stoletach of them a musket, and some other
weapons, and taking the ship's pinnance, not yet
hawled up, ran away to their brother rogues. The
next morning we sent the long boat, with men to
^pursue them, but all in vain... The mate, in revenge,
would have demolished my little castle, burnt.its sur-
niture, and destroyed their plai:Uations; but having
no orders for it, he did not put it in execution. And
thus there were five Englishmen in the island, which
caused great differences, as my faithsul Spaniard gave
me.a perfect account of in the following manner. . .
You cannot, Sir, but remember. the embassy you
sent me about, and what a disappointment we met
with, by your absence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, bein^ blest t
with calm weather and a smooth sea. Great indeed
was the joy of my countrymen, on seeing me alive,
having acted as the principal man on bdard, the cap-
tain of the ship-wreck'd vessel dying before; nor
was their surprize less, who knowing I was taken pri-
soner by the savages of another nation, thought me
long since entombed in their monstrous bowels. But,
when I shewed them the arms, ammunition, and pro-
vision I had brought for them, they Jooked upon me
as a second "Joseph advanced in Phjirastlrs Court, and
immediately prepared to come along with me. In-
deed, they were obliged to trespass upon their friendly
savages, by borrowing two of their canoes, under a
pretext for fishing; and they came away the next
morning, but without any provisions of their own,
except a few roots, which' served them instead.of bread.
After three week's absence, we arrived at our habi-
tation. Here we met with three Englijh sailors, who,
I confess, gave us provisions, and that letter of direc-
tions y6u had left for us, which informed us, how to
bring up tame goats^ plant corn, cure grapes, make
pots ; and, in short, every thing that was necessary for
our use; as in particular, I knew your method best:
So taking Friday's father to assist me, we managed all
the asfairs. Nor were the rest of the Spaniards want-
ing in their kind offices, dressing food for the Englijh-
men, who did nothing but ramble and divert themselves
in the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tor-
toises. But we had not been long ashore, before we
were informed of two more Englijhmen, unnaturally
turned out of their common place of residence, by the
three others above-mentioned: This made my Spa-
niards and me (whom they looked upon as\ their
Governor, in your absence) endeavour to persuade
them to take them in, that We might be as one family;.
but all our entreaties were'in Vain'; so that the poor
fellows, finding nothing to be done without industry,
prtched their tents on the north side of the island, a
little inclining to the Weft, for fear of savages. Here
they built two huts, one to lodge, and thi other to
lay their stores in; for my good-.nature; Spaniards
givir. ;them some feed, they dug and planud as I had
don. . nd began to live orettily. But while they
wev: jung on thus comfortably, the three unnatural
brutes.
brutes, their "countrymen, in a mere bullying humeur,
insulted them, by saying the Governor (meaning you)
had given them possession of the island, and, damn
them, they shouly build no houses upon their ground,
without paying rent. The two honest men (Torso
let me now distinguish them} thought their three coun-
trymen only jested, and one of them invited them in,
to see'their fine habitations; while the other face-
tiously told them, that since they built tenements,
with great improvements, they should, according to
the custom of landlords, give them a longer lease ; at
the same time desiring them to fetch a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the wretches, swearing
he should pay for the jest, snatches up a fire-brand,
and clapping it to the outside of their hut, very fairly
set it on" fire, which soon would have been consumed,
had not the honest man thrust him away, and trod it
out wivh his feet. Hereupon the fellow returns with
a pole, with which he would have ended his days, had
not the poor man avoided the blow; when fetching
his musket, he knocked the villain down that began
the quarrel. The other two, coming to aliist their
fellow, obliged the other honest man to take his mus-
ket also., and both, presenting their pieces, bid the
villains stand off; and if they did not lay down their
arms, death should decide the dispute one way or other.
This brought them to a parley, in which they agreed
to take their wounded man, and be gone; but they
were in the wrong that they did not disarm them when
they had the power, and then make their complaint
to me and my Spaniards for justice, which might have
prevented their farther designs against them. Ana"
indeed so many trespasses did they commit after, by
treading down their corn, shooting their young kids
and goats, and plaguing them night and day, that they
resolved to come to my castle, challenge all the three,
and decide their right by one plain battle, while the
Spaniards stood by to see fair play. One day it hap-
pened,
pened, that two os my Spaniards (one of whom un-
derstood Englijh) being in the woods, were met by
one of the honest men, who complained how barba-
rous their countrymen had been, in destroying their
corn, killing their milch-goat and 3 kids, which de-
prived them of their subsistence; that if we did not
grant them relief, they must be inevitably starved ; and
so they parted: But when my Spaniards came home
at night, and supper being on the table, one of them
began to reprehend the Englijhmen, but in a very man-
nerly way; which they resenting, replied, What bu-
siness had their countrymen there without leave ? 'and
that it was none of their ground. Why, said my
Spaniard calmlv, Ing/ese they must not starve; But
they replied, Let them starve and be damned, they
should neither plant nor build ; and damn them, they
should be their servants, and work for them; for the
island was theirs, and they would burn all the huts
they should find on the land: By this rule (said my
Spaniard smiling) we shall be your servants too? Aye,
by God, and so you shall, replied the impudent ras-
cal. Upon which, Will. Atkhu starting upr cries,
come, Jack, let's have t'other brush with them; who
dare to build in our dominions? Thus, leaving us
something heated with a just. passion, away they
trooped, every man having a ^un, pistol, and sword,
muttering some threatening words, that we could then
but imperfectly understand. That night they de-
signed to murder their two companions, and slept till
midnight in the bower, thinking to fall upoii t.ham in
their sleep: Nor were the honest men less thoughtsul
concerning them ; for at this juncture they were com-
ing to find them out, but in a much suirer way. As
soon as the villains came to the hut^, and found no-
body there, they concluded, that I and my Spaniards
had given them notice, and therefore swore to be re-
venged on us. Then they demolished the poor men's
habitation, not by fire, as they attempted before, but
pulled
pulled down their houses limb from limb, not leaving
a stick nor stone on the ground where they stood;
broke 'heir houshold stuff in pieces, tore up their trees,
.spoiled :heir inclosure; and, in short, quite ruined
them of every thing they had. Had these people met
together, no doubt but there would have been a bloody
battlt; bi t Providence ordered it for the better: For
just as the three were got thither, the two were at our
cattle; and when they left us, the three came back
again, scoffing] y telling us what they had done; when
one, taking hold of the Spaniard's hat, twirls it round,
saying, And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, /bail .have the
fame faiicel if you\don't mend your mannes*. My Spa-
niard, a gratfe, but a courageous man, knocked him
down with one blow of his fist; at which, another
villain fired his pistol, and narroWly miffed his body,
but wounded him a little in the ear. The Spaniards
enraged hereat, takes up the fellow's musket' whom
he had knocked down, and would have shot him, if 1
and the rest had not come out, and took their arms
from every one of them.
These Englijhmen, perceiving they had made all of
11s their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstanding
their better words, the Spaniards would not return
them their arms again; telling them they would do
them no manner of harmr if they would live peace-
ably; but if they offered any injury to the plantation
or castle, they would slioot them as they would do
ravenous beasts. This made them so mad, that they
went away raging like the furies of hell. They were
no sooner gone, but in came the two honest men, fired
with the justest rage, if such can be, having been
ruined as aforesaid; and indeed it was very hard, that
nineteen of us should be bullied by three villains,
contiuually offending with impunity. .
It was a great while, Sir, before we could persuade
the two Englijhmen from pursuing, and undoubtedly
killing them with their fixe-arms, but we promises
them
them justice should be done them, and in the mean
time they should reside with us in our own habitation.
In about five days after, these five vagrants, almost
.starved with hunger, drew neir our grove; and per-
ceiving me, the Governor, and two others, walking
by the side of the creek, they very submiffively de-
fired to be received into the family again. We told
them of their great incivility to us, and of their un-
natural barbarity to their countrymen; but yet we
would fee what the.rest agreed to, and would bring
them word in half an hour. After some debate, we
.called them in, where their two countrymen laid a
heavy charge against them, for not only ruining, but
designing to murder them, which they could not deny.
But here I was forced to interpose as a mediator ; by
obliging the two Englijhmen not to hurt them, being
naked and unarmed ; and that the other three should
make them restitution, by building their two huts,
and fencing their ground in the fame manner as it was
before. Well, being in a miserable condition, they
submitted to this at present, and lived some time re-
. gularly enough, except to the working part, which
they did not care for; but the Spaniards would have
dispensed with that, had they continued easy and quiet.
Their arms being given to them again, they scarce
had them a week, till they became as troublesome as
ever ; but an accident happening soon after, obliged
us to lay aside private resentments, and look to our
common preservation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed perfectly well in
health, and yet by no means could 1 compose myself
to sleep: Upon which, being very uneasy, I got up,
and looked out, but it being dark, could perceive no-
thing but the trees around our castle: I went to bed
again, but it was all one, I could not sleep; when one
of my Spaniards hearing me walk about, asked me,
who is that up ? "I answered, 'tis I; when I told him
the occasion; Sir said he, such' things are not to be
ilighted;
flighted; for certainty there is some mischief plotting
near us. Where are the Engltjhmen F said I. He an-
swered, in their huts : for they lay separate from us,
Sir, since the last mutiny. Well, said I, some kind
spirit gives,this information for our advantage. Come,
let us look abroad, and something may osfer to justify
pur pains. Upon which I and some of my Spaniards
went up to the mountain, not by the ladder, but thro'
the grove ; and then we were struck into a panic" fear
by seeing a light, as though it were a fire, at a very
little distance, and hearing the voices of several men.
Hereupon we retreated immediately, and raising the
rest of our forces, made them.sensible of the impending
danger: But, with all my authority, I could not make
them stay where they were, so earnest were they to
see how things went; though indeed the darkness of
the night gave them opportunity enough to view them
(by the light of the fire) undiscovered. As they were
disferent parties, and straggling over the shore, we
were much afraid that they should find ©ut our habi-
tation, and destroy our flocks of goats: To prevent
which, we sent oneEnglijbman, and two Spaniards, to
drive the goats into the valley where the cave lay ; or,
if there was occasion,'into the cave itself. As to our
own parts, resuming our native courage and prudent
conduct, had they not been divided, we durst venture
to attack an hundred of them. But, before it was yet
light, we resolved to send out Friday's father as a spy;
who, immediately stripping himself naked, gets among
them undiscovered, and in two hour's time, brings
word, that they were two parties, of two different
nations, who, having lately a bloody battle with one
another, happened to land by mere chance on the
fame island, to devour their miserable prisoners; that
they were entirely ignorant of any person's inhabiting
here; but rather, being filled with rage and sury
against one another, he believed, that as soon as day-
light appeared, there would be a terrible engagement.
R Old
Old Friday had scarce ended his relation, but we heard
an uncommon noise, and perceived that there was an
horrid engagement between the two armies.
Such was the curiosity of our party, especially the
Englijhmen, that they would not lie close, though Old
Friday told them their safety depended upon it; and
that, if we had patience, we should behold the savages
kill one another. However, they used some caution,
by going surther into the woods, and placed them-
selves in a convenient place to behold the battle.
Never could be a more bloody engagement, nor
men of more invincible spirits and prudent conduct,
according to their way and manner of sighting. It
lasted near two hours, till that party which was nearest
our castle began to decline, and at last to fly from
their conquerors. We were undoubtedly, Sir, put
into a great consternation on this account, lest they
should run into our grove, and, consequently, bring
us into the like danger. Hereupon we resolved to
kill the sirst that came, to prevent discovery; and
that too with our swords, and the but-end of our
muskets, for fear the report of our guns should be
heard.
And so indeed it happened as we thought; for three
os the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran di-
rectly to the place, as to a thick wood for shelter; nor
was it long before our scout gave us notice of it; as
also, that the victors did not think it fit to pursue
them. Upon this, I would not suffer them to be slain,
but had them surprised and taken by our party; and
afterwards they proved very good servants to us, being
stout young creatures, and able to do a great deal of
work. The remainder of the conquered savages,
fled to their canoes, and put out into the ocean;
while the conquerors, joining together, shouted by
way of triumph; and about three in the afternoon, they
also embarked for their own nation. Thus we were
freed at once, from the saf'ages and our fears, not
perceiving
perceiving any of these creatures for some considerable
time after. We found two and thirty men dead in.
the field of battle ; some were flain with long arrows,
which we found sticking in their bodies ;and the rest
were killed with large unwieldy wooden swords, which
denoted their vast strength ; and of which we found
seventeen, besides bows and arrows: But we could
not find one wounded creature among them alive;
for they either kill their enemies quite, or carry those
wounded away with them.
This terrible sight tamed the Englijhmen for some
time; considering how unfortunate they might have
been, had they fallen into their hands, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but also for food, as we
do cattle: And, indeed, so much did this nauseate
their stomachs, that it not only made them very lick,
but more tractable to the common neceflary business
of the whole society, planting, sowing, and reaping,
with the greatest iigns of amity and friendship: So
that now, being all good friends, we began to consider
of circumstances in general; and the first thing we
thought of was, Whether, as we perceived the sa-
vages haunted that side of the island, and there being
more retired parts of it, and yet as well suited to our
manner of living, and equally to our advantage, we
ought not much rather to move our place of residence,
and plant it in a much safer place, both for the secu-
rity of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was resolved,
or rather voted, nemine tontradicente, not to remove
our ancient castle; and that for this very good rea-
fon, that some time or other we expected to hear
from our supreme Governor (meaning you, Sir) whose
messengers, not finding us there, might think the
place demolished, and all his subjects destroyed by
t ie savages.
As to the next concern, relating to our corn and
cattle, we consented to have them removed to the val-
R 2 ley
ley where the cave was, the land there being properest,
and sufficient for both. But yet, when. we considered.
further, we altered one part of our resolution, which
was, to remove part of our cattle thither, and there
plant only part of our corn; so that in case one part
was destroyed, the other might be preserved. We
took another resolution, which really had a great deal
of prudence in it, and that was, in not trusting the
three savages, which we had taken prisoners, with
any knowledge of the plantation we had mads in thtat
valley, or of what number of cattle, much less the
cave, wherein we conveyed several arms, and two
barrels of powder you lefc for us, at your departure
from this island. But though we could not change
our habitation, we resolved to make it more fortified
and more secret. To this end, Sir, as you had planted
trees at some distance before the entrance .of your
"palace, so we, imitating your example, planted and
filled up the whole space of ground, even to the
banks of the creek, nay, into the very ouze where
the tide flowed, not leaving a place for landing:
.And among those you had planted, we also intermingled
so many short ones, all of which growing wonder-
sully fast and thick, scarcely a little dog could find a
pastage through them. Nor was this sufficient, as we
thought, for we did the fame to all the ground, to the
right and left hand of us, even to the top of the hill,
without so much as a passage for ourselves, except
by the ladder; which being taken down, nothing
but what had wings or witchcraft could pretend to
come near us. And indeed this was excellently well
contrived, especially to serve that occasion, for which
we afterwards found it necessary.
Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement,
not having one visit from the savages all that time.
Indeed one morning we had an alarm, which put us
into some amazement; for a few of my Spaniards be-
ing out very ear ly, perceived no less than twenty ca-
... nOCS,
noes, as it were, coming on shore; upon which, re-
turning home with great precipitation, they gave us
ths alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all that
day, and the next, going out only in the night time
to make oar observations: But, as good luck would
have it, they were "upon another design, and did not
land that time upon the island.
But how there happened another quarrel between
the three wicked Englijhmtn, and some of my Spa*
niards. The occasion was this: One of them being;
enraged at one of the savages, whom we.had taken'
prisoner, for not being able to comprehend something
which he was shewing him, he snatches up a hatchet
in a great sury, not to correct, but to kill him; but
miffin r his head, he gave him such a barbarous cut in.
his shoulder, that had like to have struck osf his arm ;.
at which, one of my good-natured Spaniards, interpos-
ing between the Englijhman and the poor savage, ber.
seeched the former not to murder the poor creature :;
But this kindness had like to cost the Spaniard's life
..for tite Englijhman struck at him in the fame manner,.
which he nimbly and suddenly avoiding, returned sudr
denly upon him with his shovel, (being all at work
about their corn-land) and very fairly knocked the
brutish creature down. Hereupon another Englijh-
man, coming to his fellow's assistance, laid the good
Spaniard on the earth ; when immediately two others,.
coming to his relief, were attacked by the third Eng-
lijhman, armed with an old cutlass, who wounded
them both. But this uproar soon reached our cars,
who rushing out upon them, took the three. Englijhmen
prisoners: And then, our. next question. was,. what
should be done to such mutinous and impudent fellows,.
so surious, desperate and idle, that they were mischiev-
ous to the highest degree, and consequently not safe
for the society to let them live among them.
Now, Sir, as I was Governor in your.absence, .so I
also took the authority of a Judge; and having them
K. 3^ brought
brought before me, I told them, Tha*t if they had been
of my country, I would hang every mother's son of
them; but since it was an Englijhman (meaning you,
kind Sir) to whom y/e were indebted for our'preserva-
tion and deliverance, I would, in gratitude, use them
with.all possible mildness; but, at the fame time,
leave them to the judgment of the two other Euglijh-
ttitn, who, I hoped, forgetting their resentments,
would deal impartially by them.
Hereupon one of their countrymen stood up: Sir,
said he, leave it not to us, for you may be sensible ive
have reason to sentence them to the gallows: Bejides, Sir,
this fellow, Will. Atkins, and the two others, proposed
to us, that we might murder you all in your jleep, which
ive woidd not consent to; but knowing their inability, and
your vigilance, we did not think jit to discover it before.
How, Seignior, said I, do you hear what is alledged
against you? What can you fay to justify so horrid an
action as to murder us in cold blood? So far, Sir,
was the wretch from denying it, that he swore, Damn
him but he would do it still. But what have we. done
to you, Seignior Atkins, said I,. or what will you gain
by killing us? What shall we do to prevent you? Must
we kill you, or you kill us? Why will you, Seignior
Atkins (said I, smiling) put us to such an unhappy di-
lemma, such a fatal necessity? But so great a rage
did my scoffing, and yet severe jestput.him into, that
he was going to flj at me, and undoubtedly had at-
tempted to kill me, if possesled of weapons, and had
not been prevented by three Spaniards. This unpar-
ralleled and villainous carriage made us seriously con-
sider what was to be done. The two Englijhmen and
the Spaniard, who had saved the poor Indian's life,
mightily petitioned me to hang one of them, for an
example to the others, which mould be him that had
twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet,
it being at that time impossible the poor slave should
recover. But they could never gain my consent to put
him to death, for the reasous above mentioned, since
it was an Englijhman (even yourself) was my deli-
verer: And, as mercisul councils are most prevailing,
when earnestly pressed, so I got them to be of the fame
opinion, as to clemency. But to prevent them do-
ing us any suture mischief, we all agreed that they
should have no weapons, as swords, guns, powder
or shot, but be expelled from the society, to live how
they pleased by themselves: That neither the two
Englishmen, nor the rest of the Spaniards, should have
conversation with them upon any account whatso-
ever: That they should be kept from coming within
certain limits of our castle; and if they "dared to
offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning, kill-
ing or destroying any of the corn, plantings, build-
ings, fences, or cattle, belonging to the society, we
would shoot them as freely as we would do beasts of
prey, in whatsoever places we should perceive them.
This sentence seemed very just to all but them-
selves ; when, like a mercisul Judge, I called out to the
two honest Englijhmen faying, you must consider they
ought not to be starved neither; and since it will be
some time before they can raise corn or cattle of their
own, let us give them some corn to last them eight
months, and for feed to sow, by which time they will
raise some for themselves. Let us also bestow upon
them 6 milch goats, 4 he ones, and 6 kids, as well
for their present support, as a farther increase; toge-
ther with tools necessary for their work, as hatchets,
an axe, saw, and other things convenient to build
them huts: All which were agreed to; but before
they took them in possession, I obliged them solemnly
to swear, never to attempt any thing against us or
their countrymen for the suture. Thus dismiffing
them from our society, they went away, sullen and re-
fractory, as tho' neither.willing. to go nor stay: How-
ever, seeing no remedy, they took what provision was
given them, pretending to chuse a convenient place*
where they might live by themselves.
About five days after, they came to those limits
appointed, in order for more victuals, and sent me
word by one of my Spaniards, whom they called to,
where they had pitched their tents, and marked them-
selves out an habitation and plantation, at the N. £.
and most remote part of the island. And indeed there
they built themselves two very handsome cottages, re-
sembling our little castle, being under the side of a
mountain, with some trees already growing on three
sides of it; so that planting a few more, it would have
been obscured from sight, unless particularly sought for.
.Whon these huts were. finished, we gave them some
dry goats (kins for bedding and covering; and, on
their giving us suller sureties of their good behaviour
for the suture, we gave tfeem soms peas, barley, and
rice'for sowing, and whatever tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition,
in which they got thtir first harvest in, the quantity
of which was but small, because they had planted but
little land: For indeed, all their plantations being to
form, made it the more disficult, especially it being a
thing out of their element. And when they were
obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they could
make little or nothing of it. But the rainy season
coming on, put them into a greater perplexity, for
.want cf a cave to keep their corn dry, and prevent it
from spoiling: And so much did this humble them,
that they begged of my Spaniards to help them, to
which the good natured men readily consented, and
in four days space worked a great hole in the side of
the hill for them, large enough for their purpose, to
secure their corn and other things from the rain,
though not comparable to our's, which had several
additional apartments.
But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year afterwards, which had like to have
ruined.
ruined us, and themselves tco: For it seems, being
tired and weary'of this fort of living, which made
them work themselves, without hopes of changing
their condition, nothing would serve them, but they
would make a voyage to the continent, and try if they
could not seize upon some of the savages, and bring
them over, as slaves to do their drudgery, while they
lived at ease and pleasure. .
Indeed the project. was not so preposterous; if they
had not gone farther; but they neither did, or proposed
any thing, but what had mischief in the design, or
the event. One morning these three fellows came
tlown to the limited station, and humbly defired to
be admitted to talk with us, which we readily granted.
Tjiey told us, in short, that being tired of their man-
ner of living, the labour of their hands, in such em-
ployments, not being sufficient to procure the neces-
saries of life, they only defired one of the canoes we
came over in, with some arms and ammunition, for
their. defence, and they would seek thejr fortunes
abroad, and never trouble us any more. To be sure,
we were glad enough to get rid of such wretched
plagues; but yet honesty made us ingenuously repre-
sent to them, by what we ourselves had suffered, the
certain destruction they were running into, either of
being starved to death, or murdered by the savages.
Xo this they very audaciously replied, that they nei-
ther could nor would work; and consequently^ that
they might as we)l be starved abroad as.at home: And
as to their falling into the hands of the savages ; why,'
if they were murdered, that was nothing to us, there
was an end of them; they bad neither wives or chil-
dren to cry after them :" Nay, so intent were they upon
their voyage, that if the Spaniards would not give
them arms, so they had but the canoe, they would go
without.
But though we could not well spare our fire-arms,
rather than they should go like naked men,. we let
them
them have two muskets, a pistol, a'cutlass, and three
hatchets, which were thought very susficient: We
gave them also goat's flesh, a great basket sull of
dried grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a young live kid,
and a large canoe susficient to carry twenty men. And
thus, with a mast made of a long pole, and a fail of
six large goat-skins dried, having a fair breeze, and a
floud tide with them, they sailed merrily away, the
Spaniards calling after them, Bon Veyajo, no man ever
expecting to see them again.
When they were gone, the Spaniards and Englijh-
men would often say one to another, 0 bow peaceable da
we now live since those turbulent fellows have left us!
Nothing could be farther from their thoughts than to
behold their faces any more; and yet scarce two and
twenty days had pasted over their heads, but one of
the Euglijhmen, being abroad a planting, perceived at
a distance, three men well armed, approaching to-
wards him. Away he slies with speed to our castle,
and tells me and the rest, that we were all undone, for
that strangers were landed on the island, and who
they were he could not tell, but added, that they were
not savages, but men habited, bearing arms. Why
then, said I, we have the less occasion to be concerned,
since, if they are not Indians, they must be friends;
and I am sure there is no Christian people upon earth,
but what will do us good rather than harm. But n
while we were considering of the event, up came the
three Englijhmen, whose voices we quickly knew, and
so all our admiration of that nature ceased at once.
And our wonder was succeeded by another sort of
enquiry, which was, What could be the occasion c.f
their returning sijquickly to the island, when we little
expected, and much less defired their company? But,
as this was better to be related by themselves, I ordered
them to be brought in, and they gave me the follow-
ing relation of their voyage.
After two days fail, or something less, they reached
land
land, where they found the people coming to give
them another sort of reception, than what they ex-
pected or desired ; for being armed with bows and ar-
rows, they durst not venture on shore, but steered
northward six or seven hours, till they attained to an
opening, by which they plainly perceived, that the
land that appeared from this place, was not the main,
but an island; that at their entrance into the opening
of the sea, they discovered another island, on the
right hand north, and several more lying to the west-
ward ; but being resolved to go on shore somewhere
or other, they put over to one of the western islands.
Here they found the natives very courteous to them,
giving them several roots and dried fish; nay, even
the women too, were as willing to supply them with
what they could procure them to eat,..bringing it a
great way to them upon their heads. Among those
hospitable Indians they continued some days, enquir-
ing, by signs and tokens, what nations lay around
them; and were informed, that there were several
fierce and terrible people lived every way, accustomed
tqeat mankind; but, for themselves, they never used
such diet, except those who were taken in battle, and
of them they made a solemn feast.
The Englijhmen enquired, how long it was since'they
had a feall of that kind; They answered, about two
moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to two
fingers; that at this time their king had two hun-
dred prisoners, which were fattening up for the slaugh-
ter. Mighty defirous were the Englijhmen for seeing
the prisoners, which the others mistaking, thought
that they wanted some of them for their own food:
Upon which they beckened to them, pointing to the
rising, and then to the setting of the sun; that when
it appeared in the east the next morning, they would
bring them some: And indeed they were as good as
their words, for by that time they brought 11 men
and 5 women, just as so many cows and oxen are
brought
brought so sea-port towns, to victual a fliip. . But as
brutish as these Ev.glijhmen were, their stomachs turned
at the sight. What to do in this cafe they could not
tell: To resuse the prisoners, would have been the
highest affront offered to the savage gentry; and to
dispose of them, they knew not in what manner. How-
ever, they resolved to accept them ; and so gave them,
in return, one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife,
and six or seven of their. bullets; things which,
though wholly ignorant of, they seemed entirely con-
tented with ; and dragging the poor wretches into the
boat, with their hands bound behind them, delivered
them to the Englijhmen. But this obliged them to put
off as soon as they had these presents, lest the donors.
might have expected two or three of them to be killed,
and to be invited to dinner the next day: and so tak-
ing leave, with all possible respect and thanks, though
. neither of them ,understood what they could fay, they
. failed away back to the first island, and there set eight
of the men prisoners at-liberty. In their voyage,
they endeavoured to comfort, and have some com-
munication with the poor captives; but it was im-
possible to make them sensible of any thing ; and no-
thing they could fay, or give, or do for them, could
make them otherwise persuaded, but that they were
unbound only to be devoured. If they gave them any
food, they thought it was only to fatten .them for the
slaughter ; or looked at any one more particularly, the
poor creature thought itself to be the first sacrifice:
And even when they brought them to our island, and
began. to use them with the greatest humanity and
kindness; yet they expected every day their new
masters would devour them.
And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers
conclude the unaccountable relation of their voyage,
which was both amazing and entertaining. Hereupon
I asked them where their new family was? They told
me, they had put them into one of their huts, and they
came
came to beg some victuals for them. This, indeed,
made us long to fee them; and so, taking Friday's
father with us, leaving only two at our castle, we
came down to behold these poor creatures.
When we arrived at the hut fbeing bound again by
the Englijhmen, for fear of escaping) there they all sat,
stark naked, expecting their fatal tragedy: There
were three lusty comely men, well shaped, with strait
ind fair limbs, between thirty and sive and thirty
years old; and five women, two of whom might be
from thirty to forty, two more not above four and
twenty; and the last, a comely tall maiden. of about
seventeen. Indeed all the women were very agree-
able, both in their proportion and features, except
being tawny, which their modest behaviour and other
graces made amends for, when they afterwards came
to be cloathed.
Their naked appearance, together with their mise-
rable circumstances, was no very comfortable fight
to my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may Venture,
Sir, without flattery, to fay, are men of the best be-
haviour, calmest tempers, and sweetest natures, that
can possibly be : For they immediately ordered Friday's
father to fee if he knew any of them, or if he under-
stood what they could fay. No sooner did the old In-
dian appear, but he looked at them with great serious-
ness; yet, not being of his nation, they were utter
strangers to him, and none could understand his
speech, or signs, but one woman. This was enough
to answer the design, which was, to assure them they
would not be killed, being fallen into the hands of
Christians, who abhorred such barbarity. When they
were sully satisfied of this, they expressed their joy by
such strange gestures, and uncommon tones, as are
not possible for me to describe. But the woman, their
interpreter, was ordered next to enquire, whether they
were content to be servants, and would work for the
men who had brought them hither to save their lives?
S Here-
Hereupon (being by this time unbound) they fell a ca-
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her
ihoulders, raid t'other that, intimating that they were.
willing to do any thing for them. But now, Sir,
having women among us, and dreading.that it might
occasion some strife, if not blood, I asked the three
men what they would do, and how they intended to
use these creatures, whether as servants or women?
One of them very pertly and readily answered, they
v.'ould use them as both. Gentlemen, said I, as you
are your own masters, I am not going to restrain you.
.from that; but methinks, for avoiding dissensions
among you, I would only desire you to engage, That
none of you will take more than one for a woman or
a wife; and that having taken this one, none else
should presume to touch her; for though we have not
a priestly authority to marry you, yet it is but reason-
able, that whoever thus takes a woman, mould be
obliged to maintain her; since nobody else has any
thing to do with her: And this indeed appeared so just
to all present, thatitwas unanimously agreed to. Then
the Englijhmen asked my Spaniards, whether they de-
signed to take any of them? But they all answered
No; some declaring, they had already wives in Spain,
and others, that they cared not to join with infidels. .
On the reverie, the Englijhmen took each of them a
temporary wife, and set up a new method of living.
As to Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three
savage servants we had taken in the late battle, they
all lived with me in our ancient castle; and indeed
we supplied the main part of the island with food, as
necessity required. But the most remarkable part of
the story is, how these Englijhmen, who had been so
much at valance,. should agree about the choice of
these women; yet they took a good way enough to
prevent quarrelling among themselves. They set the
five women in one of their huts, and going them-
selves to the other, drew lots which should have the
first
first choice. Now he that had the first went to the
hut, and fetched out her he chose ; and it is remark-
able, that he that chose first, took her that was ac-
counted the most homely, and eldest of the number,
which made the rest of the Englijhmen exceeding merry,
and the Spaniards themselves could not but smile at it:
But, as it happened, the fellow had the best thought,
in chusing one fit for application and business; and
indeed she proved the best wife of all the parcel.
But, when the poor creatures perceived themselves
placed in a row, and separated one by one, they were
again seized with an unspeakable terror, as thinking"
they were now going to be slain in earnest: And when
the Englishman came to take the first, the rest set up a
lamentable cry, clapt their arms around her neck,
and hanging about her, took their last farewel, as
they thought, .in such trembling agonies, and affec-
tionate embraces, as would have softened the hardest
heart in the world, and made the driest eyes melt into
watery tears: Nor could they be persuaded, but that
they were going to die, till such time as Friday's fa-
ther made them sensible, that the Englijhmen had
chosen them for their wives; and so ended all their
terror and concern upon this occasion.
Well, after this, the Englijhmen went to work, and,
being assisted by my good-natured savages, in a few
hours they erected every one of them a new hut or
tent, for their separate lodging, since those they had
already were filled with tools, houshold-stuft and
provision. They all continued on the north shore os
the island, but separate as before; the three wicked
ones pitched farther off, and the two honest men
nearer hand to our castle: So that the island seemed
to be peopled in three places, three towns beginning
to be built for that purpose. And here I cannot but
remark, what is very common, that the two honest
men had the worst wives (I mean as to industry,
S 2 clean-
Cleanliness and ingenuity) while the three reprobates
enjoyed women of the contrary perfections.
But another observation I made is in favour of the
two honest men, to shew what disparity there is be-
tween a diligent application to business, on the one
hand, and a slothsul, negligent, and idle temper, on
the other. Both of them had an equal parcel of
ground laid out, and corn to sow susficient for them;
but both did not make the same improvements, either
in their cultivation or in their planting. The two
honest men had a multitude of young trees planted
about their habitations, so that when you approached
near them, nothing appeared but a wood, very pleasing
and delightsul. Every thing they did, prospered and
flourished; their grapes, planted in order, seemed as
though managed in a vineyard, and were infinitely
preferable to any of the others. Nor were they want-"
ing to find out a place of retreat; but dug a cave in
the most retired part of a thick wood, to secure their
wives and children, with their provision and chiefest
goods, surrounded with innumerable stakes, and had
the most subtle entrance, in case any mischief should
happen, either by their fellow countrymen, or the
devouring savages.
As to the reprobates (though I must own they were
much more civilized than before) instead of a delight-
sul wood surround'n2; their dwellings', we found the
words of King Solomon too truly verified: I went by
the vineyard of the Jlotbful, and it was overgrown
ivith thorns. in many places their crop was obscured
by weeds; the hedges, having several gaps in them,
the w 11 goats had got in and eaten up the corn;
and here and there was a dead bush, to stop in thofe .
gaps for the present, which was no more than shut-
ting the stable-door after the steed was stolen away.
But for their wives, they (as I observed before) were
more diligent, and cleanly enough, especially in their
victuals, being instructed by one of the honest men,
who
who was a cook's mate on board a ship: And very
well it was so, for, cooking himself, his companion
and their families lived as well as the idle husbands,
who did nothing but loiter about, fetch turtles eggs,
catch fish and birds, and any thing but work, and
they lived accordingly; while the diligent lived very
handsomely and plentisully, in the most comfortable
manner.
And now, Sir, I am come to lay before your eyes
a scene, quite different from any thing that ever hap-
pened to us before; and, perhaps, ever befel you in
all the time of your residence on this island: I shall
inform you of its original in the following manner..
One morning, Sir, very early, there cama. jive or fix
canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon .their
old custom of devouring their prisoners. All that we
could do upon such an occasion, was to lie concealed;
and they, not having any notice of the inhabitants,
would depart quietly, after performing their bloody
execution. Whoever discovered these savages first,
was to give notice to all the three plantations, to keep
within doors; and then a proper scout was to be
placed, to give us intelligence of their departure.
But, notwithstanding these wise measures, an unhap-
py disaster exposed us to the knowledge of the savages,
which had like to have caused the desolation of the
whole island: For, after the savages were gone off in
their canoes, some of my Spaniards and I, looking
abroad, and enflamed with a curiosity to sec what
they had been doing here, to our great amazement,
we beheld three savages fast asleep on the ground,
who either being gorged, could not awake when the
others went; or, having wandered too far into the
woods, did not come back in time.
What.to do with them at first, we could not tell:
As for slaves we had enough of them already; and as
to killing them, neither Christianity, nor humanity,
would suffer us to shed innocent blood, who never did
S 3 us
us wrong, and therefore had no just quarrel against
them, to justify our taking their lives away. We
perceived they had no boat left them to transport them
to their own nation ; and that, by letting thtm wan-
der about, they might discover us, and inform the first
savages thai should happen to land on the same
bloody occasion; which information might entirely
ruin us; and therefore I counselled my Spaniards to
secure them, and set them about some work or other,
till we could better dispose of them.
Hereupon we all went back, and, making them
awake, took them prisoners. It is impossible to ex-
press the horror they were in, especially when bound,
as thinking they were going to be murdered and eaten;
but we soon eased them of their fear as to that point.
We first took them to the bower, where was the chief
of our country work; as keeping goats, planting
corn, tsfc. 2nd then carried them to the two Englijb-
men's habitation, to help them in their business: But
h:ippy it was for us all, we did not carry them to our
castle, as will appear by the sequel. The Englijhmen
indeed found. them work to do; but, whether they
did not guard them strictly, or that they thought
they could not better themselves, 1 cannot tell; but
certainly one of them ran away into the woods, and
they could not hear of him fora long time after.
Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose
he got home in some of the canoes, the savages re-
turning in about four week's time, and going ofF in
the space of two days. You may be certain, Sir, this
thought could not but terrify us exceedingly; and
made us justly conclude, that this savage would inform
his countrymen of our abode in the island, how few
and weak we were in comparison to their numbers;
expecting it would not be long before the Englijhmen
would be attacked in their habitations; but the sa-
vages had not seen their places of safety in the wood,
nor our castle, which it was a great happiness they
Hid not know. . Nor
Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this
occasion: For about eight months after this, six ca-
noes of savages, with about ten men in each canoe,
v came sailing by the north side of the island, which
they were never accustomed to do before, and landed
about an hour after sun-rise^near a mile from the
dwelling of the two Englijhmen, who, it seems, had
the good fortune to discover them about a league oft";
so that it was an hour before they could attain the
more, and it required some longer time before they
could come at them. And being now confirmed in
this opinion, that they were certainly betrayed, they
immediately bound the two slaves which were left,
causing two of the three men, whom they had brought
with the women, and who proved very faithsul, to
lead them, with their wives, and other conveniencies,
into their retired cave in the wood, and there to bind
the two fellows hand and foot till they had surther
orders. Then they opened their fences where they
kept their milch goats, and drove them all out, giving
the goats liberty to wander in the woods, to amuse
the savages that they were wild ones; but the slave
had given a truer information, which made them
come to their very inclosures. The two frighted men
sent the other slave of the three, who had been with
them by accident to alarm the Spaniards, and defire
their assistance; in the mean time they took their
arms and ammunition, and made to .the cave where
they had sent their wives, and, securing their slaves,
seated themselves in a private place, from whence
they might behold all the actions of the savages. Nor
had they gone far, and ascended a rising ground, but
they could see a little army of Indians approach to
their beautisul dwelling ; and, in a few moments more,
perceived the fame, and their surniture, to their un-
speakable grief, burning in a consuming flame: And
when this was done, they spread here and there, search-
ing every bufli and place for the people, of whom it
was
was very evident they had information. Upon which
the two Englijhmen, not thinking themselves secure
where they stood, retreated about half a. mile farther
in the country, rightly concluding that.the farther
the savages strolled, there would be the less number
together: Upon which they took their nsxt stand
where the trunk of an old tree stood, very hollow
and large, whece they resolved to see what would offer.
But they had not stood long there, before two savages
came running directly towards them, as though,
having knowledge of their being there, they resolved
to attack them. A little farther were three more, and
five more behind them again, all running the same
way. It cannot.be imagined what perplexity the poor
men were in at this sight, thinking that, if assistance
did not speedily.come, their cave would be discovered
in the wood, and consequently all therein lost. So
they resolved to resist them there; and, when over-
powered, would ascend to the top of the trees, where
they would defend themselves as long as their am-
munition lasted, and sell their lives as dear as possible
to those devouring savages. Thus sixed upon their
resolution, they next considered whether they should
fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take
the middle party, by which the.two first and the five
last would be separated. In this regulation the two
savages also confirmed them, by turning a little to the
other part of the wood; but the three, and the
after them, came directly towards the tree. Hereupon
they resolved to take them in a direct line as they ap-
proached nearer, because the first shot might perhaps
hit them all three; and upon this occasion, the man
who was to fire charged his piece with three or four
bullets. And thus, while they were waiting, the sa-
vages came on: one of them was the run-away, who
had caused all their;mischief, so they resolved he should
not escape, if theyhoth fired at once. But however,
though they did;'hot fire together, they were ready
. ^ chargedi
charged; when the first that let fly was too good a
marksman to miss his aim; for he killed the foremost
outright; 'the second, who was the run-away Indian,
fell on the ground, being shot through the body, but
not dead; and the third was a little wounded on the
shoulder, who sitting down on the ground, fell a
screaming in a most fearsul manner. The noise of
the guns, which not only made the most resounding
echoes, from one side to another, but raised the birds
of all sorts, fluttering with the most consused noise, so
much terrified the five savages behind, that they stood
still at first like so many inanimate images. But when
every thing was in its first profound filence, they came
to the place where their companions lay in a miserable
condition: And here, not being sensible that they were
liable to the same fate, they slood over the wounded
man, undoubtedly enquiring the cause of his fad cala-
mity; and, as 'tis reasonable to suppose, he told them
that it came by lightning and thunder from the Gods,
having never seen or heard of a gun before, in the
whole course of their lives. By this time the Eng-
lijhmen having loaded their pieces, fired both together
a second time, when, seeing them all fall immediately
upon the ground, they thought they had killed every
creature of them. This made them come up boldly
before they had charged their guns, which indeed was
a wrong step; for, when they came to the pjace, they
sound four alive, two of them very little wounded,
and one not all, which obliged them to fall upon them
with their muskets: They first knocked the run-away
savage on the head, and another that was but a little
wounded in the arm, and then'put the other languish-
ing wretches out of their pain ; while he that was not
hurt, with bended knees, and lift up hands, made pi-
teous moans and signs to them to spare his life: Nor
were they indeed unmercisul to the poor wretch, but
pointed to him to sit down at the root of a tree hard
by, and then one of the Englijhmen, with a piece of
rope
rope twine he had in his pocket by merechance, tying
his two feet fast together, and his two hands behind
him, there they left him, making all the haste they
could after the other two, fearirg they should find out
their cave; but though they could not overtake them,
yet they had the satisfaction to perceive them, at a
distance, cross over a valley towards the sea, a quite
contrary way to their retreat: Upon which they very
contentedly returned to the tree, to look after their
prisoner; but when they came there, he was gone,
leaving the pieces of rope-yarn wherewith he was
bound behind him.. . .
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
not knowing how near their enemies might be, or in
what numbers: Immediately they repaired to their
cave, to fee if all were well there, and found every
thing safe, except the women, who were frighted upon
their husbands account, whom they now loved en-
tirely. They had not been long here, before seven of
my Spaniards came to assist them; while the other ten,
their servants, and Fridays father, were gone to de-
fend their bower, corn and cattle, in cafe the savages
should have rambled so far. There accompanied the
seven Spaniards one of the three savages, that had
formerly been taken prisoner; and, with them also,
that very Indian whom the Englijhmen had, a little be-
fore, left under the tree; for it seems they pasted by
that way where the slaughter was made, and so car-
ried along with them that poor wretch that was left
bound. But so many prisoners now becoming a bur-
then to us, and fearing the dreadsul consequence of
their escaping, most of the Spaniards and Englijh urged
the absolute necessity there was for killing them, for
our common preservation: But, Sir, the authority I
bore as Governor overfwayed that piece of cruelty;
and then I ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old
cave in the valley, bound hands and feet, with two
Spaniards to guard them. So
So much encouraged were the EngUJhmen, at the
approach of the Spaniards, and so great was their sury
against the savages, for destroying their habitations,
that they had not patience to stay any longer; but
taking five Spaniards along with them, armed with
four muskets, a pistol, and a quarter-staff, away they
went in pursuit of their enemies. As they passed by
the place where the savages were slain, it was very
easy to be perceived that more of chem had been there,
having attempted to carry off their dead bodies, but
found it impracticable. From a rising ground our
party had the mortification to see the smoke that pro-
ceeded from the ruins ; when, coming farther in sight
of the shore, they plainly perceived that the savages
had embarked in their canoes, and were putting out
to sea. This they were very sorry for, there being no
coming at them, to give them a parting salutation:
But, however, they were glad enough to get rid of
such unwelcome guests.
Thus the two honesty but unfortunate Englijhmen,
being ruined a second time, and their improvements
<[uite destroyed, most of my good-natured Spaniards
helped them to rebuild, and we all helped them with
needsul supplies: Nay, what is more remarkable, their
three mischievous countrymen, when they heard it
(which was after all these disasters were over, they
living remote eastward) sympathized with them in a
very friendly manner, and worked for them several
days; so that in a little time their habitation was re-
built, their necessities supplied, and themselves restored
to their former tranquility.
The savages had nothing to boast of in this adven-
ture, several canoes being driven ashore, followed by
two drowned creatures, having undoubtedly met with
a storm at sea, that very night they departed. Nor
can it be supposed otherwise, but those, whose better
fortune it was to attain their native shore, would en-
flame their nation to another ruinous attempt, with a
greater
greater force to carry all before them. And indeed so
it happened ; for about seven months after, our island
was invaded with a most formidable navy, no less than
eight and twenty canoes sull of savages, armed with
wooden swords, monstrous clubs, bows and arrows,
and such like instruments of war, landed that evening
at the eastermost side of the island:
You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation
our men were in upon this account, and how speedy
. they were to execute their resoluti6n, having only that
night's time allowed them. They knew, that since
they could not withstand their enemies, concealment
was the only way to procure their fa/ety: And there-
fore they took down the huts that wefe built for the
two Englijhmen, and drove their flock of goats, toge-
ther with their own at the bower, to the old cave in
the valley; they left as little appearance of inhabitants
as possible, and then posted themselves with all their
force, at the plantation of the two men. As they ex-
pected, so it happened; for early the next morning
the Indians, leaving their canoes at the east end of th«
island, came running along.the shore, about two
hundred and fifty in number, as near as can be guessed.
Our army was but little indeed; and, what was our
greater misfortune, we had not arms sufficient for
them: The account, as to the men, Sir, is as follows.
17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday.
3 The three savages,
taken with the wo-
men, who proved
faithfulservants.
3 Other jlaves, living
with the Spaniards.
11 Mujkets.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling-Pieces.
2 Sivords.
I 3 Old Halberts.
5 Mujhets, or fczvlirig
pieces, taken from
the sailors, whom
you reduced.
As to our slaves, we gave three of them halberts,
and the other three long staffs, with great iron spikes
at
as the end of them, with hatchets by their sides: We
also had hatchets too, sticking in our girdles, besides
the fire-arms: Nay, two of the women, inspired
with Amazonian fortitude, could not be dissuaded from
fighting along with their dearest husbands, and if they
died, to die with them. Seeing their resolution, we
gave them hatchets likewise; but what pleased them
best, were the bows and arrows (which they dexte-
rously knew the use of) that the fndians had left be-
hind them, after their memorable battle, one against
another.
This was my little army, but of great intrepidity,
"over which I was chief general and commander;
and knowing Will. Atkins, though exceedingly wicked,
yet a man of invincible courage, I gave him the power
of commanding under me: He and six men, with
their muskets loaded with six or seven bullets a-piece,
were planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as
an advanced guard, having orders to let the sirst pass
by ; and then, when we fired into the middle cf them,
make a nimble retreat round part of the wood, and
so come in the rear of the Spaniards, who were shaded
by a thicket of trees. Though the savages came on
with the fierceness of lions, yet they wanted the sub-
tilty of foxes, being out of all manner of order, and
straggling in heaps every way : And when Will. Atkins^
after fifty of the savages had passed by, had ordered
three of his men to give fire, so great was their con-
sternation, to fee so many men killed and wounded,
and hear such a dreadsul noise, and yet not know
whence it came, that they were frightened to the
highest degree ., and when the second volley was given,
they concluded no less but their companions were
slain by thunder and lightning from heaven. And in
this notion they would have continued, had Will. At-
kins and his men retired as soon as they fired, accord-"
ing to order, or had the rest been near them, to pour
in their (hot continually, there might have been a com-
T plete
plete victory obtained ; but staying to load their pie*?
again, discovered the whole matter. They wen; per-
ceived by some of the scattering savages at a distance.
who k t fly their.arrows among them, wounded Atkins
himself, and killed his fellow Englijhman, and one of
the Indians taken with the women. Nor did our
party fail to answer thcrn while they retreated, killing
above twenty savages: And here I cannot but take
notice of our poor dying slave; though ftopt from his
retreat h^.a fatal arrow, yet with his staff and hatchtt,
he desperately and gallantly assailed the pursuers, and
killed five of the ravages, before his life submitted to
a multiplicity of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or ma-
lice of the Indians to be less remarked, in breaking the
arms, legs, and heads, of the two dead bodies, with
their clubs and wooden swords, after a most wretched
manner. Hereupon our party was obliged to inter-
pose between the savages and Atkins, who had re-
treated to a rising ground in the wood ; but after three
volleys we were obliged to retreat also; fpr they were
so very numerous and desperate, that they came. to
the very teeth of us, shot their arrows like a cloud,
and thtir wounded men, enraged with cruel pain,
fought like madmen. They did not think fit to fol-
low us, but drawing themselves up in a circle, they
gave two triumphant shouts, in token of victory;
though they had the grief to fee several os' their
wounded bleed to death before them.
After I had, Sir, drawn up our little army together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as he was,
would have had us attack the whole body of the. sa-
vages at once: But, well pleased with the gallantry
of the man, we replied, You perceived, Seignior Atkins,
how their wounded men fought; let them alone 'till morn-
ing, when, being faint, jliff and fore, we /hall have
the fewer to combat with. To which Will. Atkins,
smiling, replied, Tliass very true, Seigniors, andfo jhull
I too; and that's the reason I would. fight them now I
i am
am warm. We all answered, Seignior Atkins, for your
part, you have behaved yourself very gallantly; and
if you are not able to approach the enemy iathe
morning, we will sight for you; till then we think it
Convenient to wait.
By the brightness of the moon that night, we per-
ceived the savages in great disorder, a*x>ut their dead
and wounded men. This made us change our reso-
lution, by falling upon them in the night, if we could
give them one volley undiscovered. And tMfc we had
a fair opportunity to do, by one of the two Englijh-
men's leading us round between the woods and the
sea-side westward, and turning short south, came
privately to a pl?ce .where the thickest of them were.
Unheard, and unperceived, . eight of us fired among
them, and did dreadsul execution ; and, in half a mi-
nute after, eight more of us let fly, killing and wound-
r.ig abundance of them; and then, dividing ourselves
toto three bodies, eight persons in each body, we
marched from among the tree. to the very teeth of the
dnemy, fending forth the greatest shouts and accla-
mations. The savages, hearing a different noise from
three quarters at once, stood in the utmost consusion;
but coming in sight of us, let fly a volley of arrows,
which wounded poor old Friday, yet happily it did not
prove mortal. But rushing in suddenly among thfin,
we fired three several ways, and then fdl to work
with our swords, staves, hatchets, and the but-end of
our muskets, with such sury as could not be re'sisted;
so that setting forth the most dismal screaming and
howling, they had recourse to their feet, to save their
lives by a speedy flight. Nor must we forget the va-
lour of tlse two women, for they exposed themselves
to the greatest dangers, killed many with their arrows,
and valiantly destroyed feveralmore with their hatchets.
Indeed we were so much tired in fightinf these two
battles, that we did not then trouble ourselves to pur-
sue diem to their . oauoes, in which wo thought they
.' . T Z.; would
would presently put to the ocean : But there happened
a dreadsul storm at sea, which continued all that night,
and not only prevented their voyage, but dashed se-
veral of their boats to pieces against the beach, and
drove the rest so high upon the shore, as required in-
finite pains to get them oft"again. After our men had,
taken some refreshment, and a little reposes they re-
solved to go towards 'the place of their landing early
in the morning, and fee whether they were gone oft,
or in wha* posture they remained. This necessarily
led them to the place of battle, where several of the sa-
vages were expiring; a sight no way pleasing to ge-
nerous minds, to delight in their misery, though
obliged so conquer them by the law cf arms. But
our own Indian staves put them out of their pain, by
dispatching them with their hatchets. At length,
coming in view of the remainder of their army, we found
them. leaning upon their knees, which were bended to-
wards their mouths, and the head between the two
hands. Hereupon, coming within musket shot of
them, I ordered two pieces to be fired without ball, in
order to alarm them, that we might plainly know whe-
ther they had the courage to fight another battle, or
were utterl) dispirited from such an attempt, that we
misht manage them accordingly. And indeed the pro-
ject took very well; for no sooner did the savages hear
the first gun, and perceive the flash of the second, but
'they suddenly started upon their feet, in the greatest
consternation; and when we approached towards
them, they ran howling and screaming away up the
hill into the country.
We could rather, at first, have wished that the wea-
ther had permitted them to have gone off to the sea;
but, when we considered that their escape might oc-
casion the approach of multitudes to our utter ruin and
desolation, we were very well pleased the contrary
happened: And Will. Atkins, who, though wounded,
wouid not part from us all this while, advised us not to
let flip this Advantage, but clapping between them and
their boats, deprive them of the capacity of ever re-
turning to plague the island. Jknow\ said he, there is
but one objection you can make ; which is, that these crea-
tures, living like beajls in the wood, may make excursions,
rifle the plantations, and destroy the tame goats: But
then conjider, we had better have to do with an hundred
men, whom we can kill, or make staves of at leisure, than
with a hundred nations, vihom it is impossible we jhould
save ourselves from, much less subdue. This advice,
and these arguments being approved of, we set fire to
their boats; and, though they were so wet that they
would not burn entirely, yet we made them incapable
of swimming in the sea?. As foon as the Indians per-
ceived what we were doing, many of them ran out
of the woods, in sight of us, and kneeling down,
piteously cried out Oa, Oa, Waramakoa, intimating, I
suppose, that if we would but spare their canoes,
they would never trouble us again.
But all their complaints, and submiffions, and en-
treaties were in vain; for, self-preservation obliging
tis to the contrary, we destroyed every one of them
that had escaped the sury of the ocean. When the
indians perceived this, they raised a lamentable erv,
and ran into the woods, and from thenc e ranged about
the wiiole island. Hire we should have considered in-
deed, that making these creatures thus desperate, we
ought, at the fame time, to have fct a susncien,t puarfl
upon the plantations. The savages had before found
but the bower, destroyed the fences, trod the corn
down under foot, and torn up the vines and grapes.
But though we were able, upon all occasions, to light
these creatures ; yet they were too swfft for us, nor
tiurst we go out single, for fear of their numbers: But
our only comfort was, they had no weapons, nor a;iy
materials to make them ; and their extremity appeared
.in ailittle time after.
As to our own parts. the only resuge we had left,
T 3 '. wls
vrss our stock of cattle in the valley by the cave,
with some little corn that grew there, and the plan-
tation of IVill. Atkins and his companions, one of
whom being killed by an arrow, they were now re-
duced to two. And it is remarkable, that this was
the fellow that cut the poor Indian with his hatchet,
and had a design to murder me and my countrymen,
the Spaniards. Such was our mean condition, that
we concluded to drive the savages up to the farther
part of the island, south west, at present, where no
Indians landed, killing as many of them as we coukl,
till we had reduced their number, and then give the
remainder some corn to plant, teaching them how to
live by their daily labour. Accordingly we pursued
them with our guns, at the hearing of which, they
were so terrified, that they would fall upon the ground.
Every day we killed and wounded some of them, and
many we found starved to death, so that our hearts
began to relent at the sight of such miserable objects.
At last, with great difficulty, taking one of them alive,
and using him with kindness and tenderness, we
brought him to old Friday, who talked to him, and
told him how good \re would be to them all, giving
them corn and land to plant and live in, and present
nourishment, provided they would keep within such
bounds as shouJd be allotted them, and not do preju-
dice tO; others: And therefore, said he, go your way,
and inform your cemtrymen of iii.; 'which if they will
n«t: agree to,' every one of them jhall be fain. .
The poor creatures,.thoroughly humbled, and being
rcducedi to about thirty-seven, joysully accepted the
offer^and earnestly begged for some food: Hereupon
w.e fent twelve. Spaniards, and two Englijhmen, well
armed, together with old Friday, and. three Indian
ftav«sr who marched. to the place where they were;
the staves were loaded with a large quantity of bread,
and rice cakes, leading three live goats. Being orr.
deied^to set down on the side of thehil;,.the poor
IsidiatiSi
Indians eat the victuals very thanksully, and have
proved faithsul to the last, never trespassing beyond
their bounds ; whereat this day they quietly and hap-
pily remain, and where we now and then visit them.
They are confined to a neck of land, about a mile
and a half broad, and three or four in length, on the
fouth east corner of the island, the sea being before,
and lofty mountains behind them, quite from the ap-
pearance of canoes, and whose countrymen never
made enquiry after them. We jgave them twelve
hatchets, and three of four knives; have taught them
both to build their huts, make wooden spades, plant
corn, make bread, breed tame goats and milk them,
as likewise to make wicker-work, in which I must in-
genuously confess they infinitely out-did us, making
themselves several pretty necessaries and fancies, as
baskets, sieves, . bird-cages, and cup-boards, as also
stools, beds, and couches, no less usesul than delight-
ful.: And now they live the most innocent and inof-
fensive creatures that ever were subdued in the world,
wanting nothing but wives to make them a nation. .
-Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to my
ability, an impartial account of the various trans-
actions that have happened in the. island since your
departure to this day; which, blessing us with your
presence, seems as if it would make us forget our late.
sufferings, though our losses are not sully retrieved;
and yet we have no reason to complain against the .
kind Providence of Heaven. When you inspect your
little kingdom, you will find it something improved
in general, your flocks increased, and your subjects
augmented: So that from a desolate island* as this
was before your wondersul deliverance upon it, here.
is a visible prospect of its becoming a populous, and:
well governed little kingdom, to your immortal fame.
and glory.
XhtiEnd of th Spanish Governor's Relation.
Tk,
The Continuation of the Life of Robinson Crusoe, loth
of those Pas ages that happened during the Time of his
Continuance on the If and, and after his Departure,
'till he arrived again in his native Country.
There is no doubt to suppose, but that the preced-
ing relation of my faithsul Spaniard was very agree-
able, and no less surprising, to me, the young priest,
and to all that heard it: Nor were these people less
pleased with those absolutely necessary utensils that I
brought them, as knives, scissars, spades, shovels,
and pick-axes, with which they made a mighty illus-
tration to their habitations. So much were they af-
fected to wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuit) of
«he Indians who assisted them, that when I viewed the
Englijhmen's colonies, they seemed at a distance, as
though they had lived like bees in a hive: For IVtll.
Atkins, who was now become a very industrious and
sober man, had made himself a tent of basket-work
round the outside; the walls were worked inclose
as a basket, in pannels, or strong squares of 32 in
number, standing abont 7 feet high; in the middle
was another, not above 22 paces round, but much
stronger built, being in form eight square, and in the
eight corners stood eight strong posts, round the top
of which he laid strong pieces, pinned with wooden
pins, from .which he raised a pyramid from the roof,
mighty pretty, I assure you, and joined very well to-
gether with iron spikes which he made himself; .for
}»e had made him a forge with a pair of wooden bel-
lows, and charcoal for his work, forming an anvii
put of one of the iron crows to work upon; .and in.
this manner would he make himself hooks, staples,
spikes, bolts, and hinges. After he had pitched the
roof of the innermost tent, he made it. so .firm be-
tween the rafters and the basket work, thatching that
over again with ricc-straw, and over that a large
leaf of a.tree, that hishouse was as dry as if it had
. - heen
been tiled or flated. The outer circuit was covered,
as a lean-to, quite round this inner apartment, lay-
ing long rafters from the 32 angles, to the top posts
of the inner house, about 20 feet distant; so that
there was a space like a walk within the outer
wicker-wall, and without the inner, near 20 feet in
breadth. The inner place he partitioned off with
the same wickcr-work^dividing it into six fair apart-
ments, every one of which had a door, first into the
entry of the main tent, and another into the space
and walk that was round it, not only convenient for
retreat," but for family necessaries. Those six spaces
were net taken up in the circumference. What other
apartments the outward circle had, were thus order-
ed: When you were in at the door of the outer cir-
cle, there was a passage directly to the door of the
inner house; on either side was a wicker-partition
and a door, by which you went first into a large room
22 feet wide, and about 30 long, and thro' that into
another of a smaller length; so that in the outward
circle were 10 handsome rooms, six of which were
only to be come at through the apartments ofthe inner
tent, serving as retiring rooms, to the respective
chambers of the inner circle, and four large ware-
houses which wtnt in thro' one another, two on cither
hand of the passage that led thro' the outward door
to the inner tent. In short, nothing could be built
more ingeniously, kept more neat, or have better con
veniencies: and here lived the three families, Will.
Atkins, his companion, their wives and children,
and the widow of the deceased. As to religion, the
men seldom taught their wives the knowledge of
God, any more than the sailers custom of swearing
by hi: name. The greatest improvement their wives
bad, was, they taught them to speak English so as to
be understood. None of their children were then
above six years old. They were all fruitsul enough;
and, I think, the cook's mate's wife was big of her
lktf*child. So
so much as to the Englijhmen. When I enquired of
the Spaniards, about their circumstances among the
savages, they told me, that they were a poor miser-
able handsul of people, that, having no means put into
their'hands, we're abandoned to despair, and thought
of nothing but starving. One of them confessed, that
they were in the wrong to think so, and for resusing
. the assistance that reason offered for their support, as
well as suture deliverance: that grief. was a most
insignificant passion, regarding things past remedy,
and having no hopes of the good things to come,
which was an addition to asfliction: All which veri-
sied ti is noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have trouble doubled.
Nor did his remarks end here: for, making ob-
servations upon my improvements, andof my condi-
tion at first, infinitely worse than their's ; he told me
that Englijhmen had, in their distress, greater presence
of mind, than those of any other country that he
had met with; and that they, and the Portuguese,
were the worst men in the world to struggle under
misfortune. When they landed'among the savages,
they found but little provision, unless they would turn
Cantbals; there being but a few roots and herbs
with little substance in their., and of which the na-
tives gave them but very sparingly. Many were the
ways they took to civilise and teach the savage*, 'but
. in vain; nor would they own them to be their instruc-
tors, whose lives were owing to their bounty. Their
extremities were very great, being many. days entirely
without food; the savages there being more in-"
dclcnt, and less devouring, than those who had better
supplies. Whenever war happened, they assisted these
people, being compelled thereto, and by which, my
faithsul Spaniard being taken, had like to have" been
devoured. They had lost their ammunition, which
rendered their fire-arms useless; nor could they use
> _ .. the
the bows and arrows that were given them; fo that
while the armies were at a distance they had no
chance, but would combat their enemies when closed,
with haib?rts, and sharpened sticks put into the mu'^-
stles of their muskets. They made themselves targets
of wood, covered with the skins of wild-beasts; and
when one happened to be knocked down, the resttif
the company fought over him till he recovered; and
then, standing close in a line, they would make their
way through a thousand savages. At the return of
their friend, who they thought had been entombed
in the bowels of their enemies, their joy was in-
conceivable. Nor Were they less surprized at the
sight of the loaves of bread I had sent them, things
that they had not seen for several years, at the fame
time crossing and blessing it, as though it was manna
sent from heaven; But when they knew the errand,
and perceived the boat, which was to carry them to
the person and place from whence such relief came,
this struck them with such a surprize of joy, that
made some of them faint away, and others burst into
tears.
This was the summary account that I had fronp
them; so that it now becomes necessary I inform the
reader what I did for them, and in what a condition
I left them. As we were all agreed tha.t the savages
would scarce trouble them any more, so we.had no
apprehensions about it. I told them I was come purely
to establish them, and not remove them; and upon
that occasicn, had not only brought them necessaries
for convenience and defence, but also artificers, and
other persons, both for their necessary employments,
and to add to their number. They were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one
by one, if they had entirely forgot their old animo-
sities, would engage in the strictest friendship, and
shake hands with one another? To this Will. Atkln^
. . t. . . ..A.
with abundance of good humour, said they had as-.
flictions enough to make them all sober, and enemies
enough to make them all friends: As for himself, he
would live and die among them; owning, that what
the Spaniards had done to him, his own mad humour
had made necessary for them to do. Nor had the Spa-
nicirds occasion to justify this proceeding tome.; but
they told me, that since Will. Atkins had behaved him-
self so valiantly in sight, and at other times shewed
such a regard to the common interest of them. all,
they had not only forgot all that was past, but thought
he ought to be as much trusted with arms and neces-
saries as any of them, which they testified by making
him command next to the Governor; and they most
heartily embraced the opportunity of giving me this
solemn assurance, that tliey would never separate their
interest again as long as they lived.
Well, upon these kind declarations of friendship,
we appointed all of us to dine together the next day,
on which I caused the ship's cook, and his.mate, to
come on shore for that purpose, and the cook's mate
on lajid assisted them in dressing cur dinner. We
brought from the ship six pieces of beef, and four of
pork, together with our punch bewl, and materials to
fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
French claret, and ten of Englijh beer, which was very
acceptable to them. The Spaniards added to our
feast five whole kids; which being roasted, three of
them were sent as fresh meat to the sailors on board,
and the other two we cat ourselves. After our merry
and innocent feast was over, I began to distribute my
cargo among them; at sirst, I gave them linen suffi-
cient to make every one of them 4 shirts, and, at the
Spaniard's request, made them up six. The thin Eng-
lijh stuffs I allotted to make every one st light coat,
like a frock, agreeable to the climate; and left them
such a quantity, as to make more upon their decay;
as also for {jumps, shoes, hats, and stockings. I can-
not express the pleasing satisfaction which fat upon the
countenances of these poor men, when they perceived
what care I took of them, as if I had been a common
father to them all; and they all engaged never to leave
the island, till I gave my consent for their departure.
Then I presented to them the people I brought; as
the taylor, smith, and the two carpenters; but espe-
cially rny Jack of all trades, was a remarkable man
among. them. My taylor fell immediately to work,
and made every one of them a shirt; aster which he
learned the women to sew and stitch, thereby to be-
come more helpsul to their husbands. Neither were
the carpenters less useful, taking in pieces their
clumsy things, instead of which .they made conve-
nient and handsome tables, stools, bedsteads, cup-
boards, Lockers and shelves. Bus when I carried
them to fee Will. y4W/».i's.basket-house, they owned
they never saw such a piece of natural ingenuity be-
fore. Tm sure, said one of the carpenters, the man
that built this has no need of us \.you. need. Sir, do'no-
thing lut give him tods. .
1 divided the topis among them in this manner: T}o
every man I gave a digging' spade, a shovel, and a
rak«,.as havrng.no harrows or plows'; and to eveijy
separate place a pick-axe,. a crow,. a broad axe,' and
a saw, with a store for a general supply, should any
be broken or worn out. I left them also nails, staples,
hinges, hammers, chislels, knives, scistars, and all
forts of tools and iron work; and for the use of the:
smith, gave them three tons of unwrought iron for a.
supply: And as to arms and ammunition, I stored
them even to prosusion, or at least sufficient to equip
a little army, against all opposcrs whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunately
starved to death) together with the maid, a pious and
well educated young woman, seeing things so well
ordered on shore (for I made them accompany me) as
also considering they had no occasion to go so long a
U voyage
voyage as to the Eajl-Indics; they both defired of me,
that I would leave them there, and enter them among
my subjects. This I readily agreed to, ordering them
a plat of ground, on which were three little houses
erected, environed with basket work, pallisadoed like
yitkins'%, and adjoining to his plantation. So con-
trived were their tents, that each of them had a room
apart to lodge in; while the middle tent was not
only their store-house, but their place for eating and
drinking. At this time the two Englijhmen removed
their habitations to their former place; so that now
the island was divided.into three colonies. Firsts these
I have just now mentioned: Secondly, that of Will
Atkins, where there were four families of Englijhmen,
with their wives and children, the widow.and her
children; the young man, and the maid, who (by
the way) we made a wife of before our departure;
three savages, who were slaves; the. taylor, smith,
(who served also as gunsmith) and my other cele-
brated person, called Jack of all Trades. Thirdly, my
Chiefest colony consisted of Spaniards, with old Friday,
at my old habitation, which was my capital city.:
And surely never was there such a metropolis before,
hid in so obscure a grove, that a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and looking purposely
for it, I believe, could not have found it; and they
had enlarged its boundaries,. both without and within,
in a secret and most surprising manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the young
French priest, of the order of St. Benedicl, whose ju-
dicious and pious discourses upon sundry occasions,
merit an extraordinary observation: Nor can his be-
ing a French Pcfijl Priejl, I presume give offence to
any of my readers, when they have this assurance
from me, that he was a person of the most courteous
disposition, extensive charity, and exalted piety. His
arguments were always agreeable to reason, and his
con-
conversation the most acceptable of any person that I
had ever yet met with in my life.
Sir (said he to me one day) since under God (at
the same time crosiing his breast) you have not only
saved my I fe, but, by permitting me to go this voyage,
have granted me the happiness of free conversation,
I think it my duty, as my profession obliges me to
save what souls I can, by bringing them to the know-
ledge of some Catholic doctrine, necessary to salva-
tion; but since they are under your immed iate go-
vernment, in gratitude, justice^ and decency, for
what you have done for me, I mall offer no farther
points in religion, than what shall merit your.appro-
bation. Pleased with ths modesty of his carriage, I
told him he should not be the worse used for being of
a different persuasion, if, upon that very account, we
did not differ in points of faith, not becoming in 9
country, where the poor Indians ought to bs instructed
in the knowledge of the true God, and his Son Jesus
Christ. To this he replied, That conversation might
easily be separated from disputes; that he would dis-
course with me rather as a gentleman than a religious;
but, if we did enter upon religious arguments, upon
my defiring the fame, that I would give him liberty
to defend his own principles. Hi surther added,
that he would. do all that became him in his office, as
a priest, as well as a christian, to procure the happiness
of all that were in the ship ; that though he could not
pray with, he would pray for us, on all. occasions:
And then he told me several extraordinary events of
his life within a few years past, but particularly in this
last, which was the most remarkable: That in this
voyage he had the misfortune to be five times shipped
and unshipped. His first design was to have gone to
Afartimco, for which he took ship at St. Malo, but was
forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the vessel running
aground in the mouth of the Tagus: That from thence
he went on board a Portuguese ship bound to the Ma-
dtiras, whose master being but an indifferent mariner,
and out of his reckoning, they were d'ove to Fial,
where selling their commodity, which was corn, they
resolved to take in their loading at the Me of May,
and to sail to Newfoundland; at the banks of which
they met a French Ihip, bound to Quebec, in the river
of Canada, and from thence to Martinico: In this
Ihip he embarked, the master of which dying at Que-
bec, that voyage was suspended: And lastly, shipping
himself for France, that ship was destroyed by the
sury of the flames, as before has been related: And
so our discourse end':d for that time.
Another morning he comes to me, just as I was
going to visit the Euglijlmiens colony,. and tells me,
That as he knew the prosperity of the island was my
principal defire, so he had something to communicate
agreeable to my design, and perhaps might put it,
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of the
benediction of heaven. How, Sir ! said I in a surprize,
are we not yet in the way of God's blessing, after
all these signal providencies and deliverances, of which
you have had such an ample relation? He replied, I
hope, Sir, you are in the way, and that your good
design will prosper; but still there are some among
you that are not equally right in their actions: Ana
. remember, I beseech you, Sir, that Achan, by his
crime, removed God's blessing from the camp of the
Children of Israel; that, though six and thirty were.
entirely innocent, yet they became the obiects of di-
vine vengeance, and bore the weight of the punish-
tnent accordingly.
So sensibly was I touched with.this discourse, and
so satisfied with that ardent piety that en flamed his
soul, that I defired him to accompany me to the Eng-
lijhmen* plantations, which he was very glad of, by
reason these were the subjects of what he designed to
discourse with me about. So we walked on together,
and then he began in the following manner:
Sir, .said he, I must confess it isa great unhappineis
thatwe disagree in several doctrinal articles of relU
gion; but yet this we acknowledge, that there is a
GOD, who, having given us some stated rules for
our service and obedience, we ought not willingly and
has commanded, or doing what he has forbidden:
And this too is owned by every Christian, that when-
ever any persons presumptuously sin against God's
command, the Almighty withdraws his blessing from
them ; and therefore every good man ought to prevent
soch neglect of, or sin against God and his commands,
so long as any persons are under his care. ''Hereupon
I thanked him for expressing so great a concern for us,
and defired him to explain the particulars of what he
had observed,; that according to the parable os' Achan,
I might remove that accursed thing from. us. Why
then, Sir, said he, in the first place, you.have four
Englijhmen, who, having taken savage women to
their wives, by whom they bave had several children.,.
and yet not legally married, as the laws of God and
man require; they, I fay, Sir, aœ no lessi than adul-
terers, and, living in adultery, are liable to the curse
of God. I know, Sir, you may object the w.atis of.
a priest or clergymen of any kind; as also pen, istk
and paper, to write down a contract of mai*iage, and'.
have it signed between them. But neither this, nor
what the Spanijh Governor has told you.,; of their.
chusing by consent, can be reckoned a masria'g«j "nor.
any more than an agreement to keep them frtim. quar-
relling among themselves: For, Sir^ theefl'encebr sa-
crament of matrimony (.fo he called'it )~not only con-
sists in mutual consent, btiP i».the.legal'obligation
which compels. them. to own~ and acknowledge one
another, to abstain from ether persons, the meii'to pro-
i vide for their wives and children, and the women to
the fame, or like conditions* mutatis mutandis.t on their
side; whereas these men, Sir, upon.their own plea-

U 3'.
sure,.
sure, or any occasion, forsake these women to marry
others, and by disowning their children, suffer them
utterly to perish. And now, Sir, added he, can God
be honoured in such an unlawsul liberty as this? How
can a blessing succeed the best endeavours, if men
are allowed to live in open adultery? Indeed I was
struck with the thing itself, and they were much to
blame that .no formal contract had been made, though
it had been breaking a stick between them, to engage
them to live as man and wife, never to separate, but
love, cherish, and comfort one another all their lives.
But, Sir, said I, when they took these women, I was
not here; and if it is adultery, 'tis past my remedy,
and I cannot help it. 'Tis true, Sir, answered the young
Priest, you cannot be charged with that part of the
crime which was done in your absence: But, I be-
seech you don't flatter yourself that you are under no
obligation now to put a period to it; which, if you
neglect to do, the guilt will be entirely on you alone,
since it is certainly in nobody's power but your's to
alter their condition. I must confess I was so dull,
that I thought he meant I should part them, which,
knowing it would put the whole island in consusion,
I told him I could not consent to upon any account
whatsoever. Sir, said he in a great surprize, I do not
mean that you should separate, but marry them: I
mean your way, by a written contract, signed by
both man and woman, and by all the witnesses pre-
sent, which all the European laws decree to be of suf-
ficient efficacy. Amazed with such true piety and
sincerity, and considering the validity of a written
contract, I acknowledged all that he said to be very
just and kind, and that 1 would discourse with the men
about it: Neither could I see what reason they could
have not to let him marry them, whofe authority in
that affair is owned to be as authentic as if they were
married l>y any of our clergymen in England.
Thz next complaint he had to make me was this,
That these Englijh subjects of mine, having lived with
these women seven years, who being of good under-
standing, and capable of instruction, having learnt
them not only to spea!^, but to read Englijh; all this
while they had never taught them any thing of the
Christian religion, or the knowledge of God; much
less in what manner he ought to be served. And is
not this an unaccountable neglect? said he, warmly.
Depend upon it, God Almighty will call them to ac-
count for such contempt. And though I am not of <
your religion, yet I should be glad to see these people
released from the devil's power, and be saved by th« 1
principles of the Christian religion, the knowledge of
God, of a Redeemer, the resurrection, and of a suture
state. But, as it is not yet too late, if you please to
give me leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I shall
supply this great defect, by bringing them into the
great circle of Christianity, even while you continue
in the island. . .
I could hold no longer, but, embracing him, told
him, with a thousand thanks, I would grant what he
requested; and defired him to proceed in the third ar-
ticle, which he did in the following manner:
Sir, said he, it should be a maxim among all Chris-
tians, That Christian knowledge ought to^be propa-
gated by all possible means, and on all occasions.
Upon this account, our church fends missionaries into
Perjia, India, and China, men who are willing to die
for the fake of God, and the Christian faith, in or-
der to bring poor infidels into the way of salvation.
Now, Sir, here is an opportuuity to convert seven
and thirty poor savages, that I wonder how you can
pass by such an occasion of doing good, which is
really worth the expence of a man's whole life. .
I must confess I was so confounded at his discourse,
that I could not tell how to answer him: Sir, said he,
seeing me in disorder, I shall be very sorry if I have
given
given you offence: No, Sir, said I, I'm rather con-
founded; and you know my circumstances, that be-
ing bound to the Eajl-Indies, in a merchant-ship, I
cannot wrong the owners so much, as to detain the
ship here, the men lying at victuals and wages on
their account. If I stay above twelve days, I must pay
3/. sterling, per diem, demorage, nor must the ship
stay above eight days more, so that I'm unable to en-
gage in this work, unless I would leave the ship, and
so be reduced to my former condition. The priest,
though he owned this was hard upon me, yet laid it to
my conscience, whether the blessing of saving. seven
and thirty souls, was not worth venturing all that I
had in the world? Sir, said I, 'tis very true; but, as
you are an ecclesiastic, it naturally falls into your pro-
fession: why therefore don't ycu rather offer to under-
take it yourself, than press me to it? Upon this he
turned about, making a very low bow, I most hum-
bly thank God and you, Sir, said he, for so blessed a
call, and most willingly undertake so gldrious an of-
fice, which will susficiently compensate all the disfi-
culties and hazards I have gone through, in a long
and uncomfortable voyage.
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a
rapture in his face, by his colour going and coming;
at the fame time his eyes sparkled like fire; with all
the signs of the most zealous transports. And wken
I asked whether he was in earnest? Sir, said he, it was
to preach to the Indians I consented to come along
with you; these infidels, even kv this little island, are
insinitely »f more worth thin my podr life 5 and," so
I am the happy instrument of saving these ponr crea-
tures fouls* I a are not if I never see my. native coun-
try again. The only thing Ifceg of you *ioTe is,i thai
i you would leave Friday with me* tjo be my'interpreter,
.without whose assistance neither of us wit!' understand
each.other-; N . .. .' ';. .
. Thwieipwst yery sensibly. troubled me, fiHVupon
* .. . Friday's
Friday's being bred a Protestant, and secondly for the
asfection I bore to him for his sidelity: But imme-
diately the remembrance of Friday's father coming
into my head, I recommended him to him, as having
learned Spanijh, which the Priest also understood, and
so was thoroughly satissied with him.
When.we came to the Englijhmeni after I had told
them what necessary things I had done for them, I
talked to them of the scandalous life they led; told
them what notice the Clergyman had taken of it, and
asked them if they were married men, or batchelors £
They answered two of them were widowers, and
the other three single men. But, said I, with what
consciences can you call these your wives, by whom
you have so many children, and yet are not lawsully
married? They all said, that they took them before
the Governor as such, having nobody else to marry
them, which they thought as legal as if they had a
parson. No doubt, said I, but in the fight of God you
are so ; but, without I am assured of your honest in-
tent never to desert these poor creatures, I can do no-
thing more for you, neither can you expect God's
blessing while you live in such an open course of adul-
tery. Hereupon Will. Atkins, who spoke for the rest,
told me, that they believed their wives the most inno-
cent and virtuous creatures in the world; that they
would never forsake them while they had breath ; and
that if there was a clergyman in the ship, they would
be married to them with all their hearts. I told you
before, said I, that I have a minister with me, who
shall marry you to-morrow morning, if you are wil-
ting ; so I would bave you consult to-night with the
rest about it. I told him the clergyman was a French-
man, and knew not a word of Englijh, but that I
would act as a clerk between them. And indeed this
business met with such speedy success, that in a few>
minutes after they all told me, they were ready to
be formally married as soon as I pleased, with which
. . . informing
informing the Priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women were
to be made sensible of the meaning of the thing,
with which being well satisfied, they and their huf-
pands attended at my apartment the next morning:
There was my Priest, habited in a black vest, some-
thing like a cassock, with a fash round it, much re-
sembling a Minister, and I was his interpreter. But
the seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he
made of marrying the women who were not bap-
tized, gave them an exceeding reverence for his per-
son: Nor indeed would he marry them at all, till he
obtained my liberty to discourse both with the men
and women; and then he tpld them, That, in the
fight of all indifferent men, and in the sense of the
laws of society, they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now, but their consent to marry, or
sinal separation, could put an end to; and even here
was a difficulty, with respect to the laws of Christiani
matrimony, in marrying a professed Christian to aft N
Heathen idolater, unbaptized; but yet there was time
enough to make them profess the name of Christ,
without which nothing could be done; that besides,
he believed themselves very indifferent Christians, and
consequently had not discoursed witJi their wives on
that subject; and that unless they promised him to da
so, he could not marry them, as being expressly for-
bidden by the laws of God.
All this they heard attentively, and owned readily:
But, Lord, Sir, said Will. Atkins to me, how should
we teach them religion, who know nothing of it our-
selves? and should we talk to our wluesof God, Jesus
Christ, Heaven and Hell, they would only laugh at
us, who never yet have practised religion, but on the
contrary all manner of wickedness. Will. Atkins^
soid I, can't you tell your wife ihe's in the wrong,
and that her Gods are idols, which can neither hear,
speak or understand .> but that our God, who. has made^
4" . can
can destroy all things ; that he rewards the.good, and
punishes the wicked ; and at last will bring us to judg-
ment: Can't you tell her these things? That's true,
said Atkins; but then she'll tell me, 'tis utterly false,
since I am hot punished and sent to the devil, who
have been such a wicked creature. These words I
interpreted to the Priest: O! said he, tell him his re-
pentance will make him a very good minister to his
spouse, qualifying him to preach on the niercy and
long-suffering of a mercisul Being, who desires not
1 the death of a sinner; that he even defers damnation
to the last judgment, which will lead to the doctrine
of it, and will make him an excellent preacher to his
wife. This I repeated to Atkins, who being more
than ordinary affected with it, replied, I know all
this, Sir, and a great deal more? but how can I have
the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when.my con-
science witnesses against me? Alas! (said he, with
tears in his eyes; and giving a great sigh) as for re-
penting that is for ever past me. Past you! Jtiins,
said I, what do you mean? I know well enough, sai(i
he, what I mean, I mean 'tis too late. . ..
When I told the Priest what he said, the poor affec-
tionate man could not refrain from weeping: But rer
covering himself, Pray, Sir, said he, ask him, if he is
contented that it is too late; or is he concerned, and
wishes it were not so? This question I put fairly to
Atkins, who replied in a paffion, How can I be easy
in a state of damnation, which I know must termi-
nate in my ruin: For I really believe some time or
other, I shall cut my throat, to put a period both to
my life and to the terrors of my conscience. ^
At this the clergyman shook his head: Sir, said he,
pray tell him it is not too late! Christ will give him
repentance, if he has recourse to the merit of the
passion. Docs he think. he is beyond the power of
Divine mercy? There may indeed be a time when
provoked mercy will no longer strive, but never too
late for men to repent in this world. I told Atkins
every word the Priest had said, who then parted from
us to talk to his wife, while we discoursed with the
rest : But those were very stupid in religious matters,
yet all of them promised ta do their endeavours to
make their wives turn Christians; and, upon these
promises, the Priest married the three couple. But,
as Atkins was the only sincere convert, and of more
fense than the rest, my Clergyman was earnestly en-
quiring after him: Sir, said he, let's walk out of this
labyrinth, and I dare fay we shall find this poor man
preaching to his wife already. And indeed we found
it true ; for, coming to the edge of the wood, we per-
ceived Atkins and his savage wife, sitting under the
shade of a bush in very earnest discourse: He pointed
to the fun, to the quarters of the earth, to himsels,
to her, the wood, and the trees. Immediately we
could perceive him start upon his feet, fall down upon
his knees, and lift up both his hands; at which the
tears ran down my Clergyman's cheeks; but our great
misfortune was, that we cou/d not hear one word
that passed between them. Artother time he would
embrace her, wiping the tears from her eyes, kiffing
her with the greatest transports, and then both kneeled
down for some minutes together. Such raptures os
joy did this occasion in my yo^yig Priest, that he
could scarcely contain himself: Arid a little after this,
we observed by her motion, as frequently lifting up
her hands and laying them on her breast, that she
was mightily affected with his doctrine ; and so they
withdrew from our sight.
When we came back, we found them both waiting
to be called in; upon which we agreed to examine
him alone, and so I began thus to discourse him. Pri-
thee, Will. Atkins, said I, what education had you?
What was your father?
JV. A. A better man than ever I shall be : He was,
Sir, a Clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or
cor-
correction, which I despised, like a brute as I was, and
murdered my poor father.
Priest. Ha! a murderers
* Here the Priest Jlarted and looked pale, as
thinking he had really killed his father.
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his throat, but broke
his heart by the most unnatural return of disobedience
to the tenderest and best of fathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance; I
did not alk you to extort a confession; but I asked
you, because I see you have more knowledge of what
is good, than your companions.
W. A. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my past
life, my conscience upbraids me with my father; the
fins against our parents make the deepest wounds,
and their weight lies the heaviest on the mind.
R. C. You talk, J^'/A too feelingly and sensibly
for me: I am not able to bear it.
W. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, I do; and every shore, val-
ley, ind tree in this island, witness the anguish of my
foul for my undutisulness to my kind father, whom I
have murdered likewise; yet m) repentance falls in-
finitely short of yours. But, 0ill, how comes the
sense of this matter to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, the work you have set me about has
occasioned it; for, talking to my wife about God and
religion, she has preached me such a sermon, that I
shall retain it in lasting remembrance.
R. C. No, no, .'tis your own moving pious argu-
ments to her, has made conscience fling them back
upon you. But, pray, Atkins, inform us what passed
between you and your wife, and in what manner did
you begin?
W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the
reason of such compacts, whereby order and justice
is maintained; without which, men would run from
X their
fneaHfeves and children, to the dissolution of fami-
lies and inheritances. '.*
R. C. Well, and what did she fay to all this?
TV. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the following
manner, which I shall repeat exactly,according to my
mean capacity, if you think it worth your while to
honour it with your attention.
the DI A.L O G U E between Will. Atkins, and bis
TVife in the Wood.
Wife.'XT O U tell me marriage God appoint.: have
I you God in your country?
TV. A. Yes, child, God is in every nation. " .
Wife. No, great old Benamuckee God is my coun-
try, not yours.
IV. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he
made, the earth, the sea, and all therein".
[Vise. Why you not tell me much long ago?
TV. A. My dear, I've been a wicked wretch, hav-
ing a long time lived without the. knowledge of God.
in the world.
TVife. What, not know great God in own nation'?
No do good ting? No fay O to him ? That's
Grange!
TV. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no
God in heaven for all that.
. TVife. Why God suffer this? Why makee not five;
well?
TV. A. It is our own faults, child.
Wife. But if he much great, can makee kill, why
no makee kill when no serve him? no be good mans,
no cry Q to him?
TV. A. That.is true, my dear, he may strike Us
dead, but his abundant mercy spareth^us.
TVife. Did not.you tell God tahkee for that.?
TV. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his
merev, nor feared him for his power.
'' Wist
1
Wife. Then mejiot believe your God be good, noT
makee kill, when you make him angry. . . *'"
TV. A. Alas! must my wicked life hinder you from
believing in him.''
[ Wife. How can me tink your. God live there?
(pointing to heaven) Sure he no tell what you do
there.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees.
what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makec power strong, when he
hears you curse, swear de great damn ?.
. W.A. My dear, this shews he is indeed a God,
and not a man who has not such tender mercy. . y.
Wife. Mercy ! what you call mercy?
W. A. He pities and spares us; as he is our great
creator, so also is he our tender. father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked,
then he no good, no great mighty.'"'
- W. A. O, my dear, don't fay so', he is both; and
many times he shews terrible examples of his judgs-
ment and vengeance.
Wife. Then you makee de bargain. with him;
you do bad ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other
mans.
'W.A. No indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
his goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead? and you
give him no thankee neither?
W. A. 'Tis. true, I am an ungratesul, unthanksul
dog, that I am.
Wife. Why you fay,'he makee you, why makee
you no much better then?
W. A. 'Tis I alone that have deformed myself, and
abused his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee
him .angry, no do bad thing. \
W. A. You mean, my dear, that you defire I would
teach you to know God: Alas! poor dear creature!
X 2 he
he must teach thee, and not I. But I'll pray earnestly
so him to direct thee, and to forgive me, a miserable
sinner. Hereupon I went a little distance, and, kneel-
ing down, prayed earnestly to God to enlighten her
mind and to pardon her sins: When this was done,
we continued our discourse thus. . ....> .
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what
hold up hand? Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission to
htm that made me, and prayed that he would open
your eyes and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear
what you fay? . .. .
W, A. Yes, my dear, he bids us prav, and has
gived his promise that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid us pray? What, do you
hear him speak?
W..A. No, my dear, but God has spoken formerly
to good men from heaven; and by divine revelation,
they have written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. O, where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me ; but, one time or
.other, I shall get it for you to read. Then he em-
braced her with great asfection.
Wish. Pray tell-a me how God teachee them write
that book i
W. A. By that rule we know him to be God.
Wife. What way what rule you know him f
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just, and
holy ; and forbids all wicked and abominable actions
that incur his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do all
things you fay he do, surely he hear me say O to him;
he makee me good, if I wish to be good; he no kill
me, if I love him; metink, believe him great God;
me say O to him along with you, my. dear.
Hear the poor man fell upon his knees, and made
her kneel down by him, praying in the greatest fer».
vency,
vency that God would instruct her by his holy spirit;
and that some time God, by his providence, would
fend them a Bible for both their instruction. And such
was the early piety of this new convert, that she made
him promise never to forsake God any more; lest, be-
ing made dead, as she called it, she should not only want
her instructor,but himself be miserable in along eternity.
Such a surprising account as this was, proved very
affecting to us both, but particularly to. the young
Clergyman,who was mightily concerned he could not
talk. to her himself: Sir, said he, there is something
more to be done to this woman than to marry her:
Lmean that she ought to be baptized. To this I pre-
sently agreed: Pray, said he again, ask her husband,
whether he has ever talked to her of JesusChrist, the
salvation of sinners, the nature of faith and redemp-
tion in and by him, of the holy spirit, the resurrec-
tion, last judgment, and a suture state; but the poor
fellow melted into tears at this question, faying,.
that he had said something to her of these things, but
his own conscience terrifying' him with the most
dreadsul apprehensions, he was afraid lest her knowledge
of it should rather make her contemn religion, than,
embrace it; but if I would discourse with her, it was
probable my labour would not be in vain. According-
ly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
bftween the. religious priest and the woman, .1 en« .
treated him to goon: But surely never was such a
sermon preached by any clergyman in. these latter
days of the world, which had so much zeal, know-
ledge and sincerity : in short, .he brought the woman.
to embrace the knowlege of Christ, .and of redemption
by him, with so surprising a.degrce of understanding,
that she made it her own request to be baptized.
And now he performed his office in the sacrament
of.Baptism, first by faying some words over to himself
in Latin, and then, asking me to give h'jr a name; as
being her godfather, he poured. a whole dishsul of
X. 3 . . Walter
water upon the woman's head, faying, MARY, I
baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, so that none could know
what religion he was of; and after, he pronounced the
benediction in Latin. Thus, the woman being made
a Christian, he married her to Will. Atkins, which be-
ing finished, he affectionately exhorted him to lead a
holy life for the suture; that, since the Almighty, by
the convictions of his conscience, had honoured him
to be the instrument of his wife's conversion, he should
not dishonour the grace of God, lest, while the savage
was converted, the instrument should be cast away*
And thus ended the ceremony, which made it the most.
pleasant and agreeable day I ever passed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man, whose
mother was starved, came to me, faying, That, as
he understood I had a clergyman with me, who had
married the Englijhmen with savages, he had a match
to make between two Christians, which he defired
might be finished before I departed. But, thinking it
was himself that had courted his mother's maid, I
persuaded him not to do any thing rashly upon the ac-
count of his solitary circumstances; that the maid
was an unequal match for him, both in respect to sub-
stance and years; and that it was very probable he
would live to return to his own country, where He
might have a far better choice. At these words, he
smilingly interrupted me, thanking me for my good
advice; that, as he had nothing to beg of me, but a
small settlement, with a servant or two, or some few
necessaries ; so he hoped I would not be unmindsul of
him when.I returned to England, but give his letters
to his friends; and that, when he was redeemed, the
plantation, and all its improvements, however va-
luable, should be returned to me again: But, as for
the marriage he proposed, why truly it was between
my Jack of all Trades, and the maid Susan.
'Indeed
Indeed I was agreeably surprised at the mentioning
this match, which seemed very suitable ; the one be-
ing a very ingenious fellow, and the other an excel-
lent, dexterous, and sensible house-wife, fit to be
governess of the whole island: So we married them
the fame day ; and as I was her father, and gave her
away, so I gave her a handsome portion, and appointed
her and her husband a large convenient space of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the
land to them, I left to Will. Atkins, who really very
justly divided it to every person's satisfaction : They
only defired one general writing, under my hand, for
the whole, which I caused to be drawn up, signed and
sealed to them, setting out their bounds, and giving
them a right to the whole possession of thtir respective
plantations, with their improvements, to them and
their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as my
own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after 11 years. As to their laws and go-
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another: And
as to the Indians, who lived in a neck by themselves,
I allotted three or four of them plantations, and the.
rest willingly chose to become servants to all the other
families, by which means they were employed in use-
sul labour, and fared much better than they did be-
fore. Thus the savages, being mixed with the
Christians, the work of the conversion of the Indians
might be set on foot by the latter, in the clergyman's
absence, to our equal satisfaction. But how, said the
young Priest, shall I know that the Christians will do
their parts to instruct them ; I told him we would call
them all together, that he should speak to the Spa-
niards, who were Papists, arid I to the.Englijh, who
were Protestants, and make them promise that they
would never make any distinction in religion, but teach
the general true knowledge of God, and his Son Jesus
Christ, in order to convert the poor savages: And
this indeed they all promised us accordingly. . '.
When
When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found his
baptized wife, and the young woman newly married
to my Jack of all Trades, were become great inti-
mates, and' discoursing of religion together: O Sir,
said Will. Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile
to himself,'he never wants an instructor: I knew I
was unworthy for so good a work, and therefore this
young woman has been sent hither, as it were from
heaven, who is sufficient to convert a whole island of
savages. The )oungwoman blushed, and was going
to rife, but I defired her to sit still, and hoped that God
would bless her in so good a work \ And then, pulling.
ont a Bible, which I brought on purpose in my
pocket for him ; here Atkins, said I, here is an assistant
that perhaps you had not before. So confounded was
the poor man, that it wa* some time before he could
speuk; at last, turning to his wife, my dear, said he,
did i not tell you that God could hear what we said i
Here is the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled
under the bulh: God then heard us, and now has
sent it. The woman Was surprised, and thought God
had really sent that individual book from heaven ; but
I turned to the young woman, and defired her to ex-
plain to the new convert, that God may properly be
said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of
his Providence, such particular things as we petitioned
for come to pass. This the young woman did ef-
fectually ; but surely Will. Atkins's joy cannot be ex-
pressed, no man in the world being more thanksul for
any thing, than he was for this bible, nor defire it
from a better principle.
After several religious discourses, I defired the young
woman to give me an account of the anguish she felt .
when she was starving to death for hunger; to which
she readily consented, and began in the following
manner:
"Sir, said she, all our victuals being gone, after
I.had fasted one day,. my stomach was very sickisb,
aud.
and, at the approach of night, I was inclined to
yawning and sleeping. When I sleptupon the couch
three hours, I awaked a little refreshed: Three hours
after, my stomach being more and more sickish, I laid
down again, but could not sleep, being very faint and
ill. ^ Thus I pasted the second day in a strange va-
riety, first hungry, then. sick again, with Teachings
to vomit. That night I dreamt that I was at Barba-
thts, buying plenty of provisions, and dining heartily.
But when I awaked, my spirits were exceedingly sunk
to find myself in the extremity of famine. There
was but one glass of wine, which being mixed with
sugar, I drank up; but, for want of substance to di-
gest upon, the sumes of it got into my head; and
made me senseless for sometime. The third day, I
was so ravenous and surious, that I could iiave eat a
little child had it come in my way; during which
time I was as mad as any creature .in Bedlam. In
one of these fits I fell down, and struck my face a-
gainst the corner of a pallet-ked, where tny mistress
lay : The blood gushed out of my nose, but by my
excessive bleeding, bath the violence of the fever,and
the ravenous part of the hunger abated. After* I grew
sick again, strove to vomit, but could not; then bleed-
ing a second time, I swooned away as dead; coming
to myself again, I had a dreadsul gnawing pain at my
stomach, which went off towards night with a long-
ing defire for food. I took a draught of water and
sugar, but it came up again; then 1 drank water with-
out sugar, and that stayed with me. I laid me down
on the bed, praying God he would take me away;
after I had slumbered, I thought myself a-dying, there*
fore recommending my soul to God, wished somebody
would throw me into the sea* . AU this while my de-
parting mistress lay by me. The last bit of bread she
had, she gaye to her dear child, my young master.
The morning after, I fell into a violent passion of
crying, and after that into hunger. I espied the blood
'. . that
that came srom my nose in a bason, which I imme-
diately swallowed up. At night I had the usual vari-
ations, as pain in the stomach, sick, fleepy, and Ra-
venous ; and I had no thoughts but that I should die
before morning. Now came on a terrible griping in
my bowels ; then I heard my young master's terrible
lamentations, that his mother was dead! And, soon
after the sailors cried, a sail, a sail, hallooing as if
they were distracted, for joy of that relief, which we
afterwards received from your hands.
Surely this is such a distinct account of starving to
death, that I believe few ever met with the like: Bu t
to return to the disposition of things among my peo-
ple. I did not take any notice to them of the floop
that I had framed, neither would I leave them the two
pieces of brass cannon, or the two quarter-deck gurrs
that I had on board; lest, upon any disgust, they
should have separated, or turned pyrates, and so
made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plan-
tation of sober pious people. But, without these
things, leaving them in a flourishing condition, with
a promise to send them surther relief from Bra/il,
as sheep, hogs, and cows (being obliged to kill the
latter at sea, having no hay to feed them) I went on
board the ship again the first of May, 1605, having
been twenty days among them; and the next morn-
'inggiving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set fail for the Brasds; but the third day, to-
wards evening, there happening a calm, and yet be
ing by a strong current drove to the N. N. E. to-
wards the land side, we perceived the sea covered as
it were with something very black, not eafily to be
discovered at first : Upon which, our chief mate as-
cending the shrouds a little way, and taking a view
with a perspective-glass, he cries out, It is an army.
An army, you fool! said I, What do you mean?
Nay, Sir, said he, don't be angry; I aflure you 'ti$
aot only an army, but a sleet too; I believe there
are
are a thousand canoes paddling along, and making
haste towards us too.
"Indeed every one of us were surprised at this rela-
tion ; and my nephew, the captain, could not tell
what to think of it, but imagined we should all be de-
voured'. Nor was I free from concern, when I consi-
dered how much we were becalmed, and what a strong
current set towards the shore : However, I encourag-
ed him not to be afraid, but bring the ship to an an-
chor,. as soon as we were certain that we must engage
them. We accordingly did so, and surled all our sails:
As to the savages, we feared nothing but their setting
the ship on fire; to prevent which, I ordered them
I to get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by
jhe head and the other by the stern, well manned,
with sheets and buckets to extinguish the flames,
shouW it so happen. But when the savages came up,
they were a horrid sight indeed, but there were not
so marjy a.s the mate had said; for, instead of a thou-
sand casloei", there were about one hundred and twen-
ty, though indeed they were too many, several of these
C&noss containing above sixteen or seventeen men.''
''' 'AjsVhey approached near us, they seemed to be in the
greatest amazement, and not knowing what to make
of 'li^they rowed round the ship, which occasioned
u$'"1&Wll to the men in the boats, not to suffer them
ftri:orrfe hear them. Hereupon they beckoned to the sa-
vages to keep back, which they accordingly did ; but,
at their retreat, they let fly about 50 arrows among
us, and very much wounded one of our men in the
long- boat. I called to them not to fire upon'any ac-
count, but handing them down some deal boards/'thfi
carpenters made them a kind of fence to Afield 'them
fr6m the arrows. In half an hour after, they came
so near a-stern of us, that we had a perfect fight: cjf
them; then they rowed a little farther put, till they
came directly broad side with us, and thert approached
so near as they could hear us speak. Th is made me order
all
all our men to keep close, and get their guns ready 5
in the mean time I orderedj Friday to go out upon
deck, and ask them in his language what they meant.
No sooner did he so, but six of the savages, who
were in the'foremost canoe, stooping down, shewed
us their naked backsides, as much as to fay in Englijh,
kiss our ;but Friday quickly knew what this
meant, by immediately crying out they were gbing to
shoot, unfortunately for him poor creature ! who fell
under a cloud of three hundred arrows, no less than
seven piercing thro' his bodv, killing one of the best
of servants, and faithsulest of companions in all my
solitudes and afflictions.
So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday, that
I ordered the guns, which were charged before only
with powder to frighten them, to be loaded with small
shot; nor did the gunners fail in their aim, but, at
this broad-side, split and overset thirteen or fourteen
of their canoes, no doubt killed several of them, and
set the rest a swimming: The others, frightened out
of their wits, little regarding their fellows a drown-
ing, scoured away as fast as they could; but our men
took up one poor wretch, swimming for bis life, an
hour after. He was so sullen at fiist, that he would
neither eat nor speak; but I took a way to cure him,
by ordering them to throw him into the sea, which
they did, and then he came swimming to them like a
cork; calling, in his tongue, I suppose, to save him.
So we took him .on board, but it was a long time be-
fore we could make him speak or understand Englijh;
yet, when we taught him, he told us, they were go-
ing with their kings to sight a great battle: And when
we asked him what made them come up to us? He
said, To makee de great wonder look. By which it is to
be noted, that these natives, and those of Africa, al-
ways add two E's at the end of Englijh words, as
makee takee, and the like, which it is a very difficult
thing to break them of.
• And
farewel of poor honest Friday! And indeed' we in-
terred him with all possible decency and solemnity*
by putting him into a coffin, and committing him to
the deep, at the same time causing eleven guns to be
fired for him: And thus ended the life of one of the
most gratesul, faithsul, honest, and affectionate ser-
vants, that ever any man was blest with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for Bra/il, in about twelve
days time, we.made land in the latitude of five de-
grees south of the line. Four days we kept on S. by
E. in sight of the shore, when we made Cape St. Au-
gustine^ and, in three days, we came to an anchor
off the Bay of All Saints. But it was with great diffi-
culty I obtained leave to hold correspon "once here
on shore for neither the sigure of my partner, my
two merchant trustees, nor the.fame of my wonder-
sul preservation in the island, could procure me that
favour, till such time as the Prior of the monastery of
the AugujYmes (to whom 1 had given 500 moidores)
obtained leave from the Governor for me personally,
with the captain, and one more, together with eight
sailors, to come on shore, and, upon this condition,
that we should not land any goods out of the ship, or
carry any person away without licence: But, howe-
ver, with difficulty, J got on shore three bales of
Englijb goods, as fine broad cloth, stusfs, and some
linen, which I brought as a present for my partner,
who had sent me on board a present of fresh provi-
sions, wine, and sweet-meats, worth above thirty
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four
fine gold medals.
And now I delivered my partner, in goods, to the
value of iool. sterling, and obliged him to set up the
sloop I brought for the use of my island, in order to."
send them refreshments: Nor did he fail in this,
but had the Tessel finished in a few days, to the master
of which I gave particular instructions to find the
place. I soon loaded him with a small cargo, and one
of my sailors offered to fettle there, upon my letter to
.the Spanijh Governor, if I would allot him tools and
a plantation. This I willingly granted, and gave
him the savage we had taken prisoner to be his Have.
All things being ready for the voyage, my old partner
told me, there was an acquaintance of his, a Brasd
planter, who, having fallen under the displeasure of
the church, and in the fear of the inquisition, which
obliged him to be concealed, would be glad of such
an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and
two daughters; End if I would allot them a planta-
tion in my island, he would give them a small stock
to be2;in with, for that the officers had already seized
his esfects and estate, and left him nothing but a little
houshold- • iff and two slaves. This request I pre-
sently granted, concealing him and his family on
board our ship, till such time as the sloop (where all
the effects were) was got out of the bay, and then
we put them on board, who carried them some mate-
rials and plants for planting sugar-canes along with
them. By this sloop, among other things I sent my
subjects three milch cows, and. five calves, about 22
hogs, three sows big with pig, two mares and a
stallion. I also engaged three Portuguese women to
go for the sake of the Spaniards^ which, with the per-
secuted man's two daughters, were sufficient, since
the rest had wives of their own, though in another
country: All which cargo arrived safe, no doubt,to
their exceeding comfort; who, with this addition,
were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
Here it was that my truly honest and pious clergy-
man left me; for a snip being ready to set sail for
Liftos, he asked me leave to go thither; but I assure
you it was with the greatest reluctance I parted from
such a person, whose virtue and. piety merited the
greatest esteem.
When we failed from the Brafih, we made directly
over the Atlantic ocean to the Cape of Good Hope,
having a tolerable good voyage, steering for the .most
part
part S. E. We were on a trading voyage, and had
a supercargo on board, who was to direct all the ship's
motions after (lie arrived at the Cape ; only being li-
mited to a certain number of days for stay by charter
party, at the several ports she was to go to; but all
this belonged to my nephew the captain, and the
supercargo, and was none of my business. At the
Cape we only took in fresli water, and then sailed for
the coast of Coromandel, being informed that a French
man of war of fifty guns, and two large merchant
ships were sailed for the Indies, but we heard no more
of them. f'
The first place we touched at was the island of Ma-
dagascar; where, though the inhabitants are naturally
fierce and treacherous, formidably armed with bows
and launces; yet, for some time, they treated us ci~
viily enough; and, in exchange of knives, scissars,
and other trifles, they brought us eleven go6d fat bul-
locks, which we took partly for present fresh victuals,
and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world
where I came to, that I went on shore as osten'as X
could; when one evening, numbers of the people
stood gazing at us at a distance, yet we thought our-
selves in no danger, because they had used us kindly.
However, we cut three boughs out of a tree, sticking
them at a distance from us, which, it leen;s, in that
country, is not only a token of tru<:e and amity. but,
when poles or boughs are set up on the other hue, it
is a sign the truce is accepted: Yet there; is one
thing to be regarded, that neither party mult tome
beyond one another's three poles or boughs; so that
the middle space is not «nly secure, but is also al-
lowed like a market for traffick and commerce. They .
stick up their launces and javelins at the first poh*,
and come on unarmed; but, if any violence is of-
sered, away they run to their poles, take up their
weapons, and then the truce is at an end. One
evening it happened, when we went on shbre, z%
* Y z greater
-greater number of people than usual, both men and
women. honestly traded among us for such toys as
%t/c had, with such great civility, that we made us a
little tent of large boughs of trees, some of the men
resolving to lie on shore all night. But, for my part,
I and some others took our lodging in the boat, with
Roughs of trees spread over it, having a sail spread at
she bottom to lie upon; when, about two o'clock in
the morning, we heard the siring of Jive muskets, as
also our men crying out for help, or else they should
all be murdered: Nor scarce had we time to get the
fcoat ashore, but that our men came and plunged
themselves into the water, having above four hundred
men at their heels: We took up seven of the men,
three of them very much wounded, and one left be-
hind killed, while the enemy poured their arrows so
thick among us, that we were forced to make a barra-
cade, with boards lying at the side of the boat, to
shield us from danger : And having got ready our fire-
arms, we returned them a volley, which no doubt
wounded several of them, as we could hear by their
cries. In this condition we lay till break of day,
and then, making signals of distress to the dip, which
my nephew, the captain, heard and understood, he
weighed anchor, and stood as near the shore as pos-
sible, and then sent another boat with 10 hands in her
t'o ailist us ; but we called to them not to come near,
informing them of our unhappy condition: However
'they ventured, when one cf tne men taking the end
cf a tow-line in his hand, axd keeping our boat be-
tween him tnd our adversaries, swam on board usr
and made fast the line to our boat; upon this, flip-
ping our cables, they towed us out of the reach of
thtir arrows, and quickly after a broadside was given
them from the ship, which made a most dreadsul ha-
vock among them. But when we had got on board,
arid; examined into the occasion of this fray, the men
v/'&o fled informed that an old woman, who sold
Kiiik witfiin the poles* had brought a joung woman
with her, who carried roots or herbs; the sight of
whom so much tempted our men, that they offered
rudeness to the maid, at which the old woman set
up a great cry; nor would the sailors part from their
prize, but carried her among the trees, while the old
woman went and brought a whole army down upon
them. At the beginning of the attack one of our men
was killed with a lance, and the fellow who began
the mischief, paid dear enough for his mistress, though
as yet we did not know what became of him, but the
r^st gorfree. The third night after the action, being
curious to understand how affairs stood, I took the'
supercargo, and twenty stout fellows with me, and
landed about two hours before midnight, at the fame
place where those Indians stood the night before ; and
there we divided our men into two bodies, the boat-
swain.commanding one, and J the other. It was so .
dark, that we could see nobody ; neither ditf we hear
any voice near us: but by and by the. boatswain fall-
ing over a dead body, we consented to halt till the
moon began to rise, which we knew would be in aa;
hour after; and then we perceived two and thirty
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quife .
dead.'. Satisfied with this discovery, I was going oh .
board again ; but the boatswain, and the rest, told
me,. they . would : make a visit to the Indian town .
where those dogs, so they called them, resided, asking
me at the. fame time to go along with fhem ; that they.'
did not doubt,"besides getting a good. bo.oty, but they .
should sind Tarn Jeffefy there, for tha.t was the. unhap-
py tnanwe nested. But I >Kt;rly rQsusjd to go',.an j!
commanded them back, as being unwilling to hazards:
their lives, the safety of the. ship' whollv . depending .
upon them. Upon which, inshort, they. airiest;me but r
one, and the supercargo :. So we returned to the. boat r
where a boy was left, telling thepi we would stay/or
those that returned,; thp' we supposed that tnc « r>f .thcm .
would run the same fate of 7}nn Jefsery. To cliis they
re.plied, Cone boss, come idling, ive 11 warrant we'll come
'Y.3. off.
tffjafi emttgft; and so away they went, notwithstand-
ing all my admonitions, either concerning their own
. safeSy, or the preservation of the ship. Indeed they
were gallantly armed, every man having a musket,
bayonet, and a pistol, besides cutlasses, hangers, pole-
axes, and hand-granadoes.' They came to a few In-
dim houses at first ; but, not being the town they
expected, they went farther, and finding a cow tied
to a tree,. they concluded that would be a sufficient
guide to them, and so it proved ;for after they untied
her, she led them directly to the town, which consist"*
r ed of above two hundred houses, several families liv-
ing in some of the huts together. Here, being all in a
profound fleep, the sailors consulted to divide them-
selves into three bodies, and set three parts of the town
on fire at once; to kill those that were escaping, and
I plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
I solved, they went to work; but the first party had
V" I not gone far, before they called out to. the rest, that
r | they had found Tern 'Jejsery ; whereupon they all rafL
up to the place, and found the poor fellow indeed,.
hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat almost
cut from ear to eat: In a house that was hard by the;
.tree, they found 16 or 17 Indians who had been con-
cerned in the fray, two or three of them being wound-
ed, who were not gone to fleep ; this house they set
on fire first, and quickly, five or six places more in.
* < $;e town appeared in flames, which they occasioned
~~ j>y wild-fire, as the fittest to burn their thatches,.
iconsisting of flags or rushes : and no sooner did the
"affrighted creatures run out to save their lives, but
they were either driven back into the flames by the
sailors, or killed without mercy. After the boatswain.
had slain two with his pole-axv he threw a hand-gra-
nado into the house, which,. soon bursting, made a..
terrible havock, killing and wounding most of them;
and neither their king, nor any. of hi& train, who
were in tlat house, escaped their sury, but they were
every creature smothered and burnt together. All this .
'while.
while they never fired a gun, lest the people ihouldT
waken faster than they could overpower them. But
they awaked fast enough, which obliged our fellows
to keep together in bodies. And by this time the
whole town was in a flame, yet their sury rather en-
creased, calling out to one another to remember Tom
Jejsery. The terrible light of this conflagration made.
me very uneasy, and rouzed. my nephew the captain,
and the rest of his men, not knowing any thing of the
matter. But when he perceived the dreadsul smoke
ascending in the clouds, and heard the guns go ofly
which made him conclude his men in danger, he takes
another boat, and comes on shore himself with 13 men
well armed : Nor was he less surprised to see me and
two men only in the boat ; but though I argued with
him, as I did with his men, about the danger of the
voyage, the interest of the merchants and owners,
and the sasetyof the ship ; yet my nephew was like
the rest, declaring, that he would rather lose the ship
his voyage, his life and all, than his men should be
lest for want of help ;and so away he went. For
my part, feeing him resolved to go, I had not power
to stay behind him: He ordered the pinnace back
again for twelve men more ; and then we marched di-
rectly as the flame guarded us. But surely never was
such a scene of horror beheld, nor more dismal criet.
heard before, except at the time of that vile traytor
and usurper Oliver.Cromwell's taking Drogheda in ire-.
land, where he neither spared man, woman or child.
The first object, I think, we met with, was the
rains of one of their habitations, before which lay
four men and three women killed, and two burnt
to death among the fire, which was now decaying-
Nothing could appear more barbarous than this re-
venge ; none more cruel than the authors of it. As
we went on the fire increased, and the cry proceed-
ed in proportion : Nor had we gone much farther, but
we beheld three naked women, followed by sixteen
or seventeen men, flying with the greatest swiftness
srom
from our men, who shot one of them in out sight:
When they perceived us, whom they supposed would
be their murderers, they set up a molt dreadsul shriek,
and two swooned away in the fright. Here was such
a sight, as might surely soften the hardest heart; and
in pity, we took meanstolet them know we would
not hurt them ;' while the poor creatures, with bend-
ed knees and lift up hands, made piteous lamenta-
tions to us to save their lives. I ordered our men not
to hurt any of the poor creatures whatsoever; but,
being willing to understand the occasion of all this,
I went among these unhappy wretches, who neither
understood me^ nor I believe the meaning themselves.
Hereupon, being resolved to go into the middle of the
town through the fire, in order to put an end to .
this barbarity, I ordered the men to follow me; but
I had scarce spoke the word before the boatswain came.
up, with four of our. men at his heels, covered with.
blood and dust, seeking more people to massacre; up-;
on which, calling out to them, we made them under-
stand who we were, and they came up to us, setting .
.
up a halloo of triumph, in token that more help
was come. Noble captain, said he to my nephew, I'm
glad you're come;.we have not half done with these
villainous hell-hound dogs, we'll root out. the very .
nation of them from the earth, and kill more than .
poor Tom has hairs upon his head : And thus he went .
on till I interrupted him. Blood thirsty dog! said I,
will your cruelty never end ? I charge.you touch not .
one creature more > stop your hands and stand still,
or you're kdead. man this moment. Why, Sir, said'
he, you neither know who you are protecting, or what
they have done 5 but pray come hither, and behold an
object of compassion, 'if such can merit. your cle- .
mency ; and with that lie shewed me the poor fellow,
with his throat cut,. hanging upon the tree. .
. Indeed here was enough to fill their breasts with ,
rage, which however 1 thought had gone too far,
Agreeable to.these words df Jqiob to. his sous Simeon.
'; t'.A and
and Lev! : Cursed be their anger for it was fierce, and
their wrath,.for it v>as cruel. But this sight made my
nephew and the rest as bad as they; nay, my nephew
declared, his concern was only for his men; as for
the people, not a foul of them ought to live. Here-
upon away ran the boatswain and eight more to finish
the tragedy; which being out of my power to pre-
vent, I pensively returned back, both from the dismal
sight, and the piteous cries of those unfortunate crea-
tures, who were made victims to their fury* Nor was
it a less piece of folly in me to return to the boat with
a sew others, having narrowly escaped forty armed Irim
ditms, who bad baen alarmed by the conflagration;
but, having missed-the placa where they stood, I got to
the boat, accompanied with the supercargo, and fa
went on board, sending the pinnace back again, to as-
sist the men in what might happeni When I had got
to the boat, the fire was almost extinguished, and the
noise abated ;but I had scarce been half an hour onr
board the ship, when I heard another volley given by
our sailors, and a great smoak, which, as I after-
wards foundj was our men falling upon those houses:
and persons that stood between them and. the sea; but
here they spared the wives and children, and killed
about sixteen or seventeen men. And so they came
strolling down to the pinnace, which, at that time
was gotten on shore to receive them. Not a man o£
.them had received the least hurt, except two, one of
whom strained his foot, and the other burnt his hand
a. little, having met with no resistance, the poor i»-
dians being unprepared, amazed and confounded.
laded I was extremely angry with every one of
them, but particularly the captain; who, instead of
cooling the rage of the men, had prompted them on
tp farther mischief: Nor could he make any other ex-
cuse, but that, as he was a man, he could not mastet
bis paffions, at the sight of one of his men so cruel-
ly murdered, As for the rest, knowing they were nos
under
under my command, they took no notice of my an-
ger, but rather boasted of their revenge; wd, ac-
cording to all their accounts, they killecTor destroyed
about 150 men, women and children, besides burn-
ing the town to ashes. They took their compa-
nion Tern Jefftty from the tree, covered him with
some of the ruins, and so left him. Eiut, however
justifiable this action of our men might seem to them-
selves, yet I always openly condemned it, with the
appellation of the maslacre of Madagascar: For though
they had slain this Jeffery, yet he was certainly the first
aggressor, by attempting to violate the chastity of a
young innocent woman, who ventured down to them
on the faith of the public capitulation, which was so
treacherously broken.
We were now under sail, when the boatswain
would defend this bloody action, by faying, That the
Indians had bloke the truce, the night before, by
shooting one of our men without just provocation:
And what if the poor fellow had taken a little liberty
with the wench, he ought not to have been murdered
in so villainous a manner; and that they had acted
nothing but what the divine laws commissioned to be
done to such homicides. However, I was in the fame
mind as before, telling them that they were murder-
ers, and bid him depend upon it, that God would blast
their voyage sor so unparralleled a piece of barbarity.
When we came into the gulph of Persia, five cf our
men, who ventured on shore, were either killed, or
made slaves by the Arabians, the rest of them having
scarce time to'escape to their boat. This made me
upbraid them afresh with the just retribution of hea-
ven sor such actions: Upon which the boatswain ve-
ry warmly asked me, wether those rr.en on whom the
tower of Siloam fell, where greater sinners than the
rest ofthe Galileans f And besides, Sir, said he, none
of these five poor men that are lost, were with us at
the massacre of Madagascar, as you call it, and there
fore your reprehension is very unjust, and your appli-
cation improperly applied. Besides, added he, you are
continually using the men very ill upon this account,
and being but a passenger yourself, we are not obliged
to bear it; nor can we tell what ill designs you may
have to bring us to judgment for it in England; and
therefore if you don't leave this discourse, and not
concern yourself with any of our affairs, I will leave
the Clip, and not fail in such dangerous company.
All this I htard very patiently, till at length I told
him what concern T had on board was none of his
business ; that, however, I was a considerable owner
of the ship, and therefore had a right to speak in com-
mon, and that I was no way accountable to him, nor
to any body else. Well, this past on, and I thought
all had been over.. At this time we were in the road
of Bengal; where, going on shore with the supercar-
go one day, in the evening, as I was preparing to
go on board, one of the men came to me, and told
me, I need not trouble myself to come to the boat,
for that the cockswain and others had ordered him not
to carry me on board any more. This insolent mes-
sage much surprized me, yet I gave him no answer to
it, but went directly, and acquainted the supercargo,'
entreating him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the captain with it, prevent the mutiny which I per-
ceived would happen. But, before I had spoke this,
the matter was effected on board: For, no sooner was
I gone off in the boat, but the boatswain, gunner,
carpenter, and all the inferior officers, came to the
^quarter-deck, defiring to speak with the captain ; and
there it was the boatswain made a long harangue, ex-
claiming against me as before-mentioned; that if I had
not gone peaceably for my own diversion, they would
have compelled me bj violence for their satisfaction;
that, as they had (hipped with. the captain, so they
would faithsully serve him; but, if I did not quit the
ship, or the captain oblige me to it, they would leave
the ship immediately: Hereupon, turning his face
about by way of signal, they all cried out, One and
All, One and All.
You may be lure, that though my nephew was a
man of great courage, yet he could not but be sur-
prised at their sudden and unexpected behavioor : And,"
though he talked stoutly to them, and afterwards ex-
postulated with them, that, fn common justice to me,
who was a considerable owner in the ship, they could
not turn me as it were out of my own house, which
might bring their lives in danger should they ever be
taken in England: Nay, though he invited the boat-
swain on shore to accommodate matters with me, yet
all this, I fay, signified nothing: they would have
nothing to do with me; and they were resolved to go
on shore if I came on board. Well, said my nephew,
if you are so resolved, permit me to talk with him,
and then I have done: And so he came to me, giving
me an account of their resolution, how one and all
designed to forsake the ship if I came on board, for
which he was mightily concerned. I am very glad to
see you, nephew, said I, and rejoice it is no worse,
since they have not rebelled against you: I only de-
fire you to send my necessary things on shore, w'ith
a sufficient sum of money, and I will. find my way" to
England as well as I can. Though this grieved my
nephew to the heart, yet there was no remedy but
compliance; and, in short, going on board, all my
necessaries were sent me, and so this matter was over
in a few hours. .
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther
off England by sea, than at my little kingdom, except
this difference, that I might travel by land over the
Great Mogul's country to Suratt, from thence up to
Bafira by sea up the Persian gulph, then take the way
of the caravans over the Amb'um desert to Aleppo and
Scandarocn, there take lh ipping to Italy, and so travel
by land into France, and from thence cjofs the sea to
England. My
my nephew left me two persons to attend me, one
of them was his servant, and the other clerk to the
purser, who engaged to be mine. I took.lodgings in
an Englijh woman's house, where several French, one
Englijh, and two Italian merchants resided. The
handsome entertainment I met with here, occasioned
me to stay nine months, considering what course I
should take. I had some Englijh goods with me of
great value, besides 1000 pieces of eight, and a let-
ter of credit for more, if there was occasion. IThe
goods I soon disposed" of to advantage, and bought
here several good diamonds, which I could easily car-
ry about me. One morning the Englijh merchant
(jame to me, and, being very intimate together, coun-
tryman, said he, I have a project to communicate to
. you, which I hope will suit to both our advantage.
To be short, Sir, we are both in a remote part of the
M'oiild from bur country; but yet in a place where
men of business may get a great deal of money. Now
. 'if*you will puta thousand poundstomy thousand pounds
we will hire a ship to our satissaction; you shall be
.captain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading
voyage to China; for why should we lie still like
iLrones, when all the world is in continual motion?
. This proposal soon got my consent, being very
agreeable to my rambling genius; and the more so,
because I looked upon my countryman to be a very
since'e person": It required some time before we couid
get a vefltl to our minds, and sailors to man it ac-
cordingly: At length, we got an Englijh mate, boat-
swain and gunner, a Dutch carpenter, and 3 Portu-
.eueze foremast-men, and, for want of others, made
shift with Indian seamen1. From hence we first sailed
to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and then to Siam,
where We bartered our wares for some arrack and
opium, the last of which bore a great price among the
Chinese: In a word, we went up to Sujkan, making a
very great voyage; and, after eight months time, I
Z returned
returned to Bengal very well satisfied with this ad-
venture, having not only gotten a sufficient sum os
money, but an insight of getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was
to go among the spice islands, and bring home a load
ot cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; islands
belonging partly to Spain, but yet places where the
Dutch trade very much. We were not long preparing
for this voyage, which we made no less successsul than
the last, touching at Porneo, and several other places
which I do not perfectly remember, returning home in
about five months time. We soon sold our spices,
which were chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to a
Persian merchant, who carried them away for the
gulph; and in short, making five to one advantage,
we we're loaded with money.
Not long aster my friend and I had made up our
accounts, [to our entire satisfaction, there came
'in a Dutch coaster from Batavia, of above two hun-
dred ton. All the men pretended themselves so ill,
that there were not hands sufficient to undertake a voy-
age, and the captain being, forsooth, willing to go
to Europe, public notice was given that the ship was
to be fold. No sooner did this come to our ears, but
we bought the ship, paid the master, and took pos-
lcssion. We would also very willingly have entertained
some of the men ; but they, having received their share
os the booty, were not to be found; being fled all to-
gether, to Jgra, the city of the great Mogul's resi-
dence; and from thence were to travel to Surate, and
la by sea to the Persian gulph. And indeed they had
reason to sly in this manner; for the truth of it was,
the pretended captain, was the gunner only, and not
.the commander; that, having been a trading voyage,
they were attacked on shore by the Mallayam, who
killed three men and the captain; after whose death,
the other eleven men, running away with the ship to
the bay os Bengal, left the mate and five men more
on shore, os whom you will hear in the sequeh
Let them come by the ship how they will, we
thought we bought it honestly; neither did we suspect
any thing of the matter, when the man shewed us a
bill of sale for the ship (undoubtedly forged) to one
Emanuel Clojlerjhoven, which name he went by. And
fo, without any more to do, we picked up some Duic/i
and Englijh seamen, resolving for another voyage for
cloves among the Phillipine and Molucca islands ; and,
in short, we continued thus five or fix years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary success; and
was now, in the seventh and last year, going in the
ship with my partner to China, designing to touch at
Sitim, and\buy some rice by the way. Rut in thk
voyage, contrary winds beat us up and down for a
considerable time among the islands in the straights of
Mallaga; and no sooner were we clear of these rugged
seas, but we perceived our ship had sprung a leak,
which obliged us to put into the river Cambodia, which
lies northward of the gulph, and goes up to Siam..
One day as I was on lhore refreshing myself, there
comes znEnglijhmaniome, who was a gunner's mate
on board an Englijh Eajl-India ship, riding up the
river, near the city ot Cambodia. Sir, said he, you
may wonder at my business, having never seen me in
your life; but though I am a stranger, I have some-
thing to tell you that very nearly concerns you; and
indeed, it is the imminent danger you are in has
moved me to give you this timely notice. Danger!
said I, what danger? I know of none, except my
ship being leaky, for which I design to have her run
a-ground to-morrow morning. Sir, said he, I hope
you'll be better employed, when you shall hear what
1 have to say to you. You know the town of Cam'-
bodia is about 15 leagues up this river ; and about three
leagues on this side, there lie two Dutch, and three
Englijh.ships; and would you venture here, without
considering what strength you had to engage them?
Z 2 '- I knew
I knew not what he meant by this discourse; ancT,
turning'short uponhinr,. Sir, said I, I know no reason
I have to be afraid.either 0/ any Englijh or Dutch ships;
J am no interloper, and what business have they then
with me? Wei), Sir, said the man, if you do think
yourself secure, all I can say is, you must take your
chance: However, I am ver.y sorry you are so deaf tq
good advice; but I assure you, if you don't put to
sea immediately, you will be attacked by five long-
boats sull cf men, hanged yourself for a pyrate, if you
are taken, and the particulars examined afterwards.
I thought, Sir, added he, I might have met withji
better reception for such a singular piece of service.
Sir, said I, I never was ungratesul to any man .^ but
pray explain yourself, and I'll go on board this minute,
whether the leak be stopped or no. Why, Sir, said
he, to be short, because time is precious, the matter is
this: You keew well £r*&ugh that you weje with the
ship at Sumatra, where your captain was murdered by
the M*!i'rjani,v:\iX\ three of hiyirtirors, and rhar either
you, or some who were on board you, ran away with
the ship; and are since turned pyrates at sea. Now,
Sir, this is the sum of what I had to say; and I can
positively assure you, that if you be taken, you will
.be executed without much ceremony.; for, undoubt-
edly, you cannot but be sensible what little law mer-
chant-ships shew to pyrates, whenever they fall into
their unmercisul hands. Sir, said I, I thank you for
your kind information, and though I am sure no man
could come more honestly by the ship than I have
idone; yet, satissied with your honest intention, and
Jcnowing their designs, I'll be upon my defence. Pri-
thee, Sir, said the man, don't talk of being upon your
jdefence; the best that you can make, is to be out of
danger; and therefore, if you have any regard for
your life, and the lives of your men, take the advan-
tage, without fail, of putting out to sea at high water;
by which means, as you have a whole tide before you,
you
you will be gone too far out of their reach before they
can come down ; and so, by the tide ( not reckoning the
length) you will get two hours of them; and as they
are only boats, consequently they will not venture
(especially if the wind blows) to follow you far out:'
tafea.
I am mighty well satisfied, said I, in this particular,.
and of your kindness, which merits my greatest es-
teem: Pray, Sir, what amends shall I make you? He
.replied, I know not what amends you are willing to
make, because you may have some doubts of its cer-
tainty ; but, to convince you of the truth of what I
fay, I have one osfer to make unto you. On board.
one of the Englijh. (hips, I have nineteen months pay
due to me; and this Dutchman th.u. is with me, has j.
months pay due to him, which, if youAvill make good'
to us, we will go along with you. And should you'
find nothing more in it,. why then. we will desire no.=
more; but when you are convinced that we havesaved:^
the ship, your life, and the lives of ther men,. we."
will leave the rest to your generosity. V.
So reasonable djd. this every way appear,. as to ob.-.
tain my immediate consent, and so we went on. board?
immediately. As soon as we came on board, my. part-
ner calls joysully. out, That they had stopped the leak!
Well thank God, said I, but pray let us weigh an-
chor immediately. Weigh ! said he, what is the mean-
ing of this hurry ? Pray,Caidl, ask no questions, but:
all hands to.work without losing a ' moment's time.:
Upon which, the captain.was called in. great haste,.
who ordered the anchor to be got up. immediately.;
and, though the tide was not quite down, yet being.as.
fistedwith a little land-breeze,'we stood.'out to lea:
.And then iewas, that. calling my partner into the ca-
bin, I related the story at large, which; Vas confirm-
ed, and more amplified.by the two men I had brought.
on board. But scarce bad:we finished our.'discourse
upon this head, but a sailor came to the cabin-doo?,.
with a message from. the captain, that we were chased
2 3 by
t>y five sloops sull of armed men. Very well, said
I, it is plain now there is something in it. And so,
going upon deck, I told the men there was la design
for seizing the ship, and consequently executing us
for pyrates; and asked them, whether they would
faithsully stand by us, and one another? To which
thfcy unanimously replied, that they would sight for us
to the last drop of their blood. And when I asked the
captain which way he thought best for us to manage
the battle; Sir, said he, the only method is to keep
them oft" with our great shot as long as we are able,
and then have recourse to our small arms; and when
both these fail us, then to retire to close quarters,
when perhaps the enemy, wanting materials, can nei-
ther break openour bulk-heads, or get in upon us. in
the mean time, the gunner was ordered to bring two
guns to bear fore and aft out of the steerage, and to
load them with musket bullets and small pieces of old
iron; and thus, the deck being cleared, we were pre-
pared for the engagement, still keeping out to fca.
But yet the boats followed us with all the fail they
could make ; and we could perceive the two foremost
were Englijh, which outsailed the rest by two leagues,
and which we found would come up with us : Here-
upon we fired a gun without ball, intimating that
they should bring too, and we put out a flag of truce,
as a signal for parley ; but, finding them crouding af-
ter us, till they came within a shot, we took in our
/white, and hanging out thered flag, immediately sired
at them with ball; and then we called to them with
a speaking trumpet, bidding them to keep. off at their
peril.
But all this signified nothing to them, who, depend-
ing upon the strength that followed them, were reso-
lutely bent for mischief: Hereupon I ordered them to.
bring the ship to, by which. means, they lying upon
our broad-side, we let fly at them at once,. one of
whom carried away the stern of the hindefmost boat,.
and obliged them not onLy to take down their fail, but
made
made them all run to the head of the boat to keep her
from sinking ; and so (he lay by, having enough of it;
and, in the mean time, we prepared to mret the fore-
most boat in the same manner. But, while we were
doing this, one of the three hindermost boats made up
to the relief of that which was disabled, and took the
men outof her. .Hertupon we called again to parky
with them, but, instead of an answer, one of the
boats came close under our stern ;.whereupon our gun-
ner let fly his two chafe-gun*;, but milling, the men.
in the boat fltouted, and waving their Caps, came qn
with sury; but, to repair his seeming disgrace, soon
got ready; and, firing the second time, this shot, we
could perceive, did a great deal of execution among
the men; but, taking no notice of it, we wore ship
again, bringing our quarter to bear upon them;
when, firing three guns more, we found the boat a
sinking, and several men already in the sea. Here-
upon, immediately manning our pinnance, I gave
ofdcrs to save some of the men from drowning, and
instantly come on board, because the rest of tneir boats
were approaching. They accordingly did so, and.
took up three of them, one of. whom was almost past.
recovery; and then, crouding all the fail we couid,
after our men came on board, we stood out farther to
sea, so that the other three boats gave over their chase,
when they came up to the first two. And thus, deli-
vered from imminent danger, we changed our course
to the eastward, quite out of the course of all Eu-
ropean ships.
Being now at sea, and enquiring more particularly]of
the two seamen the meaning of all this ; the Dutchman
led us into the secret of it at once. He told us, That
the fellow who sold us the ship was an errant thief,.
who had run away with her; that the captain was.
treacherously murdered on the coast of Mpllaca, by
the natives there, with three of his men ; that he, the
Dutchman, and four more, being obliged to have re-
course to. the woods foe their safety, at length escaped
by
by means of a Dutch ship in its way to China, which
had sent their boat on shore for fresb water: That,
after this, he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belonging to the ship ( who had deserted the rest
u\ their travels) arrived, and there gave an account,
that the fellow, who ran away with the ship, had
sold her at Bengal to a set of pyrates, who went a
cruising, and had already taken an Englijh and two
Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, yet con-
cerning us directly, my partner truly said, that our
deliverance was to be esteemed so much the more, by
reason had we fallen into their hands, we could have
expected nothing from them but immediate death,
considering our accusers would have been our judges:
And therefore his opinion was, to return directly to
Bengal, where, being known, we could prove how
honestly we came by the ship, of whom we bought
her, and the like; and where we were sure of fome
justice, not to be hanged first, and judged afterwards,
AntHndeed I was at sirst of my partner's opinion;
but when I had more seriously considered of the mat-
ter, I told him, we ran a great hazard in attempting
to return thither, being on the wrong side of the
straits of Malacca; and if, upon alarm given, we
. should be taken by the Dutch of Batavia, or Englijh.
elsewhere, our running away would be a sufficient evi-
dence to condemn ourselves. This danger indeed.
startled not only my partner, but all the ship's com-
pany; and so we changed our former resolution to go-
to the coast of Tonquin, and so to that of China; where
pursuing our first design as to trade* we might dis-
pose of the strip some way or other,. and return.in one
of the country vessels. This being generally agreed
. to, we steered away N. N. E. above 50 leagues off
the usual course to the east, which put us to some in-
conveniences, as the winds blowing more steadily
against us, mr.de. us more tedious in our voyage, and
consequently caused a more speedy decay of our pro-
vision:
vision ; and, what was still worse, we apprehended
those skips, from whose boats we had 'escaped, being
bound for, and got toChina before us, might have given
fresbJinformatiQn, which might create another vi-
gorous pursuit. And lastly, when I considered I had
never wronged or defrauded any person in my life, to
be now pursued like a common thief, and, if taken,
tp be executed as such, according to what they should
alledge ; this thing grievedsme to the highest degree
(.as it must all innocent men) and consequently made
me more desirous of escaping from its infamous shame,
than from death itself. It was very «asy to read a fad
dejection in my countenance upon this occasion:
My mind was opprest like those unhappy innocent per-
sons, who, being overpowered by blasphemous and
perjured evidences, wickedly resolved to take away
their lives, or ruin their reputation, have no other
recourse; in this world, is -ease..their un£pc:±able
sorrow, but sighs, and prayers, and tears. My part-
ner feeing me so concerned, encouraged me as well as
he could ; and, after describing to me the several ports
of that coast, told me he would either put \n on the
coast of Cocbinchiaa, or else in the bay of Tonquin,
and from thence go to Macao, a town once pos-
sessed by the Pertugueze, and where there still resided
many European families.
Well, totfiis place we steered our course, and ear-
ly the next morning we came in sight of the coast.
But, considering on our past circumstances, we re-
solved to put into a small river, whereby we could
know, either over the land, or by the ship's pinnace,
whatvessels were in any ports thereabouts: And in-
deed .this happy step was our certain deliverance; the
next morning there came to the bay of Tonquin tw»
Du.tch ships, and a third without any colours spread p
and, in the evening, two Englijh ships steered the
fame course. Theriverwhere we were was but small,
within a few leagues of its limits northward: The
country was wild and barbarous, aud the people ail
thieves,
thieves, having no correspondence with any otheT
nation, dealing only in fish, oil, and such gross
commodities. One barbarous custonTfrlcy have, that
when any vessel is unhappily shipwrecked upon their
coast, they make the men their prisoners or (laves;
so that when we coasted north-east, to the point of
land which opens to the great bay of Tonquin, we
found ourselves surrounded by enemies both by sea
and land.
As the ship had been leakly before, we took the
opportunity to cleanse her in this place, and to stop
tip the places which let in the water And when we
had lightened her, and brought our guns, and other
moveable things, to one side, we essayed to bring
her down, that we might come at her bottom; But,
upon second consideration, we cared not to let her lie
on dry ground; neither indeed could we find a con-
. . vfstientpiaee.fbrit. The inhabitants, not used to such
a sight, as to fee a ship lie down on one side, and
heel in towards shore, neither perceiving her men who
were at work on her bottom, with stages and with
boats on the off-side, they presently imagined the
ship had been castaway, and so lay fast on the ground.
Agreeable to this supposition, they surrounded us with
ten or twelve large boats, with a.refolution, undoubt-
edly, to plunder the ship, and to carry away those
they found alive, for slaves to their king. But when
they perceived our men hard at work upon the ship's
bottom and side, washing, graving, and stopping it,
it filled them with such surprize, that they stood gaz-
ing as though they were confounded. Neither could we
imagine what their design was; however, for fear
of danger, we handed down arms and ammunition
to those at work, in order to defend themselves; and
indeed this precaution was absolutely necessary; for, .
in a quarter of an hour after, the natives concluding
it was really a shipwreck, and that we were saving
our lives and goods, which they thought belonged
to them, came down to our men, as though it had been
. in
»n a line of battle. Indeed we lay but in a very un-
fit posture to sight; and, before the stages could be
got down, or the men in the boat come on board as
they were ordered, the Cocbineses were upon them,
and two of their boats boarding our long-boat, they
began to lay hold of our men as prisoners. The first
they seized was a stout Englijh sailor, who never fired
his musket, like a fool, as I imagined, but laid it
down in the boat; but he knew what he was doing,
for, by main foi:ee, he dragged the Pagan outjof. the
boat into ours by the two ears, and knocked his brains
out against the boat's gunnel: A Dutchman, that was
next him, snatches up the musket, and knocked down
five more with the but-end of it: However, this was
doing very little to their number; but a strange, un-
expected accident, which rather merits laughter, than
any thing else, gave our men a complete victory over
them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he caulked her, to stop the leaks, had gotten
two kettles just let down in the boat, one filled with"
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow and
oil, and such stuff as the shipwrights use: The car-
penter's man had a great iron ladle, with which he
used to supply the workmen with hot stuff; and, as
two of the enemies entered the boat where the fellow
stood, he saluted them with a ladlesul of the hot boil-
ing liquor, that, being half naked, made them roar
again, and jump into the sea. Well done, Jack, says
the carpenter, give them t'other dose; ana so, step-
ping forward himself, takes a mop, and dipping it
into the pitch-pot, he and his man flung it so plen-
tisully among them, as none escaped being scalded:
Upon which they all made the best of their way,
crying and howling in such a frightful manner, that
in.all my adventures I never heard the like before.
And, indeed, never was I better pleased with any con-
quest than I was with this, by" reason there was fo
little
little bloodshed, having an aversion to killing such sa-
vage wretches (more than was necessary) knowing
they came on errands which their laws and customs
made them think were just and equitable. By this
time, all things being in order, and the ship lwim-
ming, they found their mistake, so they durst not ven-
ture a second attack. Thus ended our merry fight;
and having got some rice, bread, roots, and sixteen
good hogs oh board the day before, we set sail, not
daring to go into the bay of Tbnfuin, bat steered N. E.
towards the isle of Formosa, as though we would goto
the Manillas, or the Phiilippine islands, for fear of
meeting with any European ships. When we anchored
at the isle of Formosa, the inhabitants not only sup-.
.plied us with provisions and fresti water, but dealt
very fairly and honestly with us in their bargains and
agreements. From this place we steered north, keep-
ing still off the coast of China, till we were beyond all
the ports where European vessels usually comeand at
length, being come to the" latitude of thirty degrees",
we resolved to put into the first trading port we should
come at; and standing for the shore, a boat came off
two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot oh
board, who offering his service, we very gladly ac-
cepted him, and sent the boat back again. And now,
.hav ing the old man on board, I talked to him of going
to Nanquin, the most northward part os the coalt of
China. What will you do there? said he, smiling; I
told aim we would sell our cargo, and purchase calli-
coes, raw and wrought silk, tea, Sec. and so return the
same way back. O, said he, yoa had better put in at
Macao, where you may buy. china wares as cheap as at
Nanquin, and fell your opium at a greater advance.
But, said I, we are gentlemen as well as merchants,
and design to fee the great city of Peking, and the
magnificent court of the Monarch of China. Why
then, said he, you should go to Ningpo, where there
is a navigable river that goes through the heart of
that vast empire, two hundred and seventy leagues
from
. from the sea, which crosses all the rivers, passes con-
siderable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and
goes even up to the city of Pekin, and you may go to
Nanquin, if you please, and travel to Pekin, there is a
Dutch ship just before bound that way. At the name of
a Dutch or Englijh ship I was struck with consusion,
they being as grea;t a terror to me in this vessel, as an
Algerlne man of war is to them in the Mediterranean.
The old man sinding me troubled, Sir, said he, I hopd
the Dutch are not now at war with your nation:
No, said I, but God knows what liberty they may
takewhen out of the reach of the law. Why, fays
he, what occasion is there for peaceable merchants to
fear? for, believe me, they never meddle with any
but PYRATES.
At the mentioning the word Pyrates, my counte*
nance turned to scarlet, nor was it possible for me to
conceal it frOm the old pilot, whb taking notice of it,
Sir, said he, take what course you please, I'll do you all
the service I can. Signior, said I, I am a little con-
cerned at your mentioning Pyrates, I hope there are
none in these seas, because you see in what a weak
condition we are to defend ourselves. O Sir, said he,
if thass all, don't be concerned; I don't remember one in
these parts tliefe fifteen years, except about a month age,
one was seen in the hay os Siam; but jhe is gone to the
south; nor was jhe built for a privateer, but was run
uway with by a pyrate captain, and some of his men, the
right captain having been murdered by fta Mallayuns.
What, said I, (as though ignorant of what had
happened) did they kill the captain? No, said he, 'tis
thought the Mallayans murdered him, but. perhaps
they might procure them to do it, and therefore de-
served hanging. They were lately discovered in the
bay .of Siam, in the river of Cambodia, by some Dutch-
mw who belonged to the ship, and had much ado to
escape five boats that pursued them.: But they have
all given such an exact description of the ship, that
wherever they find her, they will be sure to know her;
A a and.
.and they have solemnly sworn to give them no quarter,
"but to hang them every one at the yard arm, without
iformally bringing them to a court of justice.
Being sensible that, having the old man on board,
he could not do me any mischief, Well, Signior, said
I, 'tis for this very reason I would have you carry us
*ip to Nanquin, where neither Englijb or Dutch ships
come: And I must tell you their captains are a par-
cel of rash, proud, insolent rascals, that neither know
what belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves
as the laws of God and nature direct: Fejlews. that
would prove murderers to punish robbers; and take
upon them to adjudge innocent men to death, without
any plain proof to consirm their guilt; but perhaps I
may live to call them to account, in a place where
.they may learn how justice should be executed. And
so I told him the story of buying the ship; and how
we were saved by tie means of two men: That the
murder of the captain by the Mallayans, as also the
running away with the ship, I believed to he true; but
that we who bought it were turned pyrates, was a
mere fiction, to cover their cowardice and foolish be-
haviour, when they attacked us; and the blood of those
men we killed in our own just defence lay at their
door, who sent them to attack us by surprize.
Sir, said the old man amazed, you have taken the
right course to Jieer to the north; and, if I might advist
you, I vmuld have you Jell your jhip in China, and buy
another in that country; and I'll procure people to bus
one and sell the other. Well, but Sjgnior, said I, if
I sell the ship in this manner, I may bring some in-
nocent persons into the fame danger as I have gone
through, perhaps worse, even death itself, whereby I
should be as guilty of their murder as their villainous
persecutors. That need not trouble you, said the old
man, I'll find a way to prevent that: For those com-
manders you talk of, I know very well, and I will inform
them rightly of the matter, as you have related; and I
am persuaded they will not only believe me, but ail more
cautkufy
c.autioufly for the future. And will you deliverone mes-
sage from me to them ? I'm, said he, if you.will give it
under your hand, that I may prove it is net' my own in-
vention. Hereupon I wrote a large account of their
attacking me in their long-boats, the pretended rea-
son and unjust design of it ; that they had done what
they ought to be ashamed of, and could not answer, at
any tribunal in England. But this letter was written
in'vain, providence ordering things another way. We
sailed directly for Nanquin^ and in about 13 days fail
came to an anchor at the south-west point of the
great gulph of that place, where we learned, that
two Dutch ships were gone the length. before us, arji
that we should certainly fall into their hands. We
were at a great loss in this exigency, and.would very
gladly have been on shore almost any where : But our
oki pilot told me, that if I would sail to the southward
about 42 leagues, there was a little port called Quin-
ebang, where no European {hips ever came, and where
We might consider what X3S farther to be done, Ac*
cprdingly we weighed anchor the next day, calling
only twice onshore by the way to. get . fresh: water.'
The. country people very courteously fold us roots,
tea, rice, fowls,. ar.d other provision. Aster ftve
days fail, we came to the pert, and landed with un-
speakable joy. We resolved to dispose of ourselves
and effects any way possible, rather than go on board
that ill-fated vessel again. For no state can be more
qiiserable than a continual fear, which is a life of
death, and a confounder of our understandings, that
sets the imagination at work to'form a thousand fright-
ful things that may never happen. And indeed both.
my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters, yard-arms, &c. of sighting and being
taken, killing and being killed, nay, so violent were
our apprehensions, that we would bruise our hands
and heads against the cabin, as though actually en-
gaged. The story of the Dutch cruelty at Amboyna
often came into our waking thoughts; and, for my
A a 2 part
\ .
part, I used to think my condition very had, that af-
ter so many disficulties, and signal deliverances, I
should be hanged in my old age, and innocent too;
but then religion would seem to reprehend me, as
though the voice of it had said, Consider, O man ! the
sins you have been formerly guilty of, which now thou
iirt called to account for, to expiate with thy blood!
And as to thy innocence, what art thou more than thy
blessed redeemer, who suffered for thy offences, and
to whose providence you ought to submit, let what
will happen ! After this my natural courage would
inspire me to resist to the lass, and rather to die than
be.taken b) boorish rascally Dutchmen, who had arts
to torment beyond the crueltv of death.
But now, thanks t© kind Heaven, being nshore,
our old pilot procured a lodging and a warehouse:
It was a little hut, with a large warehouse adjoining,
all built with canes, and pallisadoed round with larg«.
ones, to keep out the pilfering thieves, which .are
very numerous in that country: But the magistrates
allowed us a little guard, besides we employed a cen-
try "with a kind of halbert, sor three-pence a day.
The fair or mart had been over some time; however
there remained in the river sour ,junks and two Ja-
pan {liips, the merchants of the latter being ashore.
In the first place, our old pilot brought us acquainted
with three Ro;nijh miffionaries, who were converting
the Chinese to Christianity ; two of them were reserv-
ed,rigid and austere, applying themselves to the work
they came about with great earnestness ; but the third,
a Frenchman, called Father Simon. was of a freer con-
versation, yet not a worse Christian than the other
two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other
.a Genoese: But Father Simon, it leems, was appointed
to go to Pekin, the residence of the Emperor of
China, and only waited for another priest, who was
ordered from macoa to accompany him. We scarce
met, but he was prompting me to go with him ; Sir,
said he, I will shew you the glorious things of this.
... mighty
mighty empire, and a city, the city of Pekin, far ex-
ceeding London or Paris, put them both together.
One day particularly, being at dinner with him, I
shewed some inclination to go, which made him press
me the more, and my partner also, to gain our con-
sent: But father, said my partner, what satisfaction'
can you have in our company,'when you esteem us
heretics, consequently objects not worth your regard?:
Oh, said he, you may be as good Catholics in time, .
as those I hope to convert. And so, said he, we shall
have you preaching to us all the way, .instead' of
pleasing us with a description of the country. . Sir, .
said he, however our religion may be vilified, '.tis very .
certain it neither divests us of good manners or
Christian charity; and as we are gentlemen, as such i
we may converse, without making one. another un-ii
easy.
But, to leave him awhile, let us consider ounship^
and merchandize, that we had to dispose of. There
was but little': business in the place where we were; .
and once I was resolved to venture to fail so the river
Kilam, and so to the city of Nahquin;.but Providence .
ordered it otherwise, by our old pilot's bringing a Jew .
merchant to. us, to fee what goods we had. He irn- .
mediately bought our opium, .for which he gave us fa .
very good price in gold by weight, some wedges of
which weighed above 10 or n ounces. It came .
into my head, that he might buy the ship too; and I .
ordered his interpreter to propose it to.him. HeTaid i
nothing then, but shrunk up his moulders; yet in?
a few days after he came, accompanied by a missionary .'
priest, who was his interpreter, with/ this: proposal* ,
that. as he had bought a great quantity of our goods, ,
he had .not money enough to purchase our ship; but, ,
if I pleased, be would hire her, with all rhy men, to .
go to "Japan, and send them with another loading to .
the Philippine islands, the freight of which he would t
willingly pay.to us before; and at their return to i
A a 3 J('PaP .
Japan, would buy the ship. Upon this we asked
the captain and his men, if they were willing to go
to Japan; to which they unanimously agreed. While
this was ' in agitation, the young man whom my
nephew left to attend me, told me, that as I did not
care to accept this prospect of advantage, he would
manage it for me as I ple.ased, and render me a faith-
sul account of his success, which should be wholly
mine. Indeed I was very unwilling to part with
him; but, as it might turn to his advantage, I dis-
coursed my partner about it, who, of his own accord,
gave him his share of the vessel, so that I could not
do otherwise than give him mine; but, however, we
let him have but the property of half of it,and preserved
a power, that when we met in England, if he had
obtained success, he should account to us for one half
of the profits of the ship's freight, and the other
should be his own. Thus having. taken a writing
under his hand, away he sailed to "Japan, where the
merchant dealt honestly by him, got him a licence
to go on shore, sent him loaded to the Philippines
with their supercargo, came back again with European
goods, cloves, and ether spice; and, in short, he got
i great deal of money; nor would he sell his ship,
but traded on his own account, went back to the
Manillas, where getting acquaintance he made his
ship free, was then hired by the governor to go to
Acapuko in America, on the Mexican coast, with a
licence jo travel to that great city; and this gained
him immense treasure, and finding means to get to
Jamaica, he returned nine years after exceeding rich
to England.
In parting with the ship it comes in course to con-
sider those men who saved our lives in the river of
Cambodia: And though, by the way, they were a
couple of rogues, who thought to turn pyrates them-
selves :" yet we p:'.id fhrin what they at first demanded,
and gave each a small sum of money, making the
Englijb-
Englijf;ihan a gunner, and the Dutchman a boatswain,
with which they were very well contented.
W; were now above iooo leagues farther from
home, than when at Bengal. All the comfort we
could expect was, that there being another fair in a
month's time, we might. not only purchase!all forts of
the country manufactures, but very:possibly find some.
Chinese junks or vessels from Tonquin, to be fold,
which would carry us and our goods wherever we:
pleased. Upon these hopes, we resolved to continues"
and to divert ourselves, took several little journies into
the country. Ten days we travelled to fee the city
of Nanquin, about lat. .30. N. which. is regularly
built, the streets'exactly strait, crossing each other in
direct lines,.which makes it shew to great advantage.
At our return, we.found the priest was come from
Macoa that was to go with Father Simon to Pekin.
That Father earnestly solicited me to accompany him,
and I referred him to my partner. In short we both
agreed to it, and prepared accordingly. Nor did we
fail meeting with great advantage, as to finiAng the
way, having the liberty to travail among the retinue.
of a Mandarin, who is a principal magistrate, and;
much reverenced by the people. . . . //'
We were 25 days travelling through this miserable
country, insinitely populous, but as indifferently .cul-
tivated ; but their pride is infinitely greater than fheir
poverty, insomuch that even their priests deride them.
As we passed the house of one of their country gen- /
tlemen, two leagues off Nanquin, we had the honour
to ride with the Chinese squire about two miles. Ne-
ver was Don Quixote si> exactly imitated, never such
a compound of pomp and poverty seen before. . .
His habit, made of callico, was dirty, greasy, and
very proper for a Merry Andrew, with all its tawdry
trappings, as hanging-sleeves, tassels, &c. but torn
in every part : His vest underneath it was no cleaner,
but more greasy. His horse (worse than Rssmante.
or
or the famous steed of the doughty Hudibrass) was a
poor, starved, decrepid thing, that would not fell for
thirty shillings in England: And yet after this piece
of beggarly pomp attended ten or twelve slaves,
guarding him to his country feat. We stopt at a lit-
tle village far refreshment; and when we came by
the country seat of this great man, we found him sit-
ting under a tree before his door, eating a mess of
boiled rice, with a great piece'of garlick in it, and a
bag filled with green pepper by him, and another
plant like ginger, with a bit of lean mutton, all this
put; together was his worship's repast: But pray ob-
serve the sloth and state of the fool! Two women
slaves brought his food ; which being laid before him,' ~
two others appeared to perform theii> respective offices;
one fed him with a spoon, while the other scraped off
what fell upon his beard and vest, and gave it to a par-
ticular favourite to eat. And thus we left the wretch,
pleased with the conceit of our admiring his magnifi-
cence, which rather raised our scorn and detestation.
At last we arrived at the great city of Pckin, accom- .
panied by two servants, and the. old Portuguezepilot,
whose charges we bore, and who was our interpreter.
We had scarce been a week at Pekin, but he comes
laughing to us, Ah., Signior htgltse, said he, me some-
ting tellj you make your heart glad, but make me
sorry, for you bring me here, 25 days journey, and
now you leave me,. go back alone; and which shall I
make my port after, widout the ship, widout de horse,
widout pecune, so he called money in his broken lan-
guage. But, in short, that there was a great caravan
of Muscovite and PoUjh merchants in the city, who
were preparing to set out for Muscovy by land within
fix weeks ; and that he was certain we would take
this opportunity, and consequently that he must go
home by himself. Indeed this news pleased us much:
Are you certain of this,said I ? Yes,Sir, said he, me sure
true. Then he told.me, that having met an old ac-
quaintance
quaintance, an Armenian, who was among them, and
came last from Afiracnn, with a design to go to Ton-
quin, where he formerly knew him 5 but naving al-
tered his resolution, was resolved to go with the cara-
van to Moscow, and so down the river fflolga to As-
tracan. Well, Signor, said I, don't be," discontented
about your returning alone ; for, if by this means I
can find a passage to England, it will be your own
fault if you return to Macoa at all. And so, con-
sulting with my partner what was best to be done, he
referred it to me as I pleased, our affairs being so well
settled at Bengal, that if we could vend the China
filks we had purchased, he would consent to
go to England, and so return to Bengal in the
company's ships. And thus we resolved, that if our
pilot would go With us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow or England, and give him 170/. sterl. Here-
upon we called him, and told him the cause of his
complaint should be removed, if he would accompa-
. ny us with the caravan, and therefore defired to know
his mind. At this he shook his head, great long
journey, said he, me no pecune, carry me Moscow, keep'
me dere. But we soon dispelled his concern, by tell-
ing him what we would give him here to lay^ out .
to the best advantage; and, as for his charges, we
would pay them.to Moscow or to England, which he
pleased, except the carriage of his goods. At this
proposal he was quite transported, saying, he would
go with us all the world over. We then prepared for
our journey: But, I think, it was near four months
before all the merchants were ready.
. In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
express to the port were we first put in, to fell what
goods were left there, while I accompanied a Chinese.
merchant to Nanquin, and there bought 29 pieces of
damask, with abouf 300 more of other fine filks;
and by the time my partner returned to Pekin, Iliad
them all canied thither ; so that our cargo amounted
in goods only to about 4500/. sterling, which, to- .
'gethpr
gether with tea, fine callicoes, nutmegs and crbvesr
loaded 18 camels for our share, besides what we rode
upon, with two or three spare horses, and two more
loaded with provision. And indeed the company ir*
general was very great, making about 400 horse, and
above 120 men, well armed and provided. We were
of several nations, among the rest were five Scots mer>
chants living at Moscow, well experienced in business.
We left Pekhz the beginning of February, O. S.
and in two days we passed through the gate of the great
China Wall, which was built as a fortification against
the Tartars, being 100 miles long. We then entered
a country not near so populous,* chiefly under the
power of plundering Tartars, several companies of
whom we perceived, on poor starved horses, contempt
tible as themselves, without order or discipline. One
time our leader for the day permitted us to hunt—
But what do you think we hunted? only a parcel of
sheep, which indeed exceeded any in the world for
wildness and swiftness; but while we were pursuing
this game, we met above forty Tartars, who, na.
sooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn, at
which there immediately appeared above forty or sifty.
more, at about a mile distant. Hereupon one of the
Scots merchants (who knew their cursed ways) or-
dered us to advance towards them, and attack them
immediately. As we advanced they let fly a volley of.
arrows, which happily fell a little short of us: This
made us halt a little, toreturr the compliment with.
bullets. And then it was, led up by the bold Scot,.
that we fired our pistols in their faces, and drew our.
swords; but there was no occasion, for they flew
like timorous sheep, and only three of them remained,
beckoning the rest to come up to them. But our.
brave leader galloped up.. to them, shot one dead,
knocked another off his horse, while the third ran
away: And thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
Weftill travelled a month more through the Emperor
of China's dominions; and at. length coming to one
©f their towns (about a day and a halPs journey
from the city of Naum) I wanted to buy a camel:
And the person I spoke to would have brought me
one, but like a fool I must go along with him, which
was about two miles from the village. My old pilot
and I walked on foot, forsooth, for some variety;
when coming to the place, where the camels were
kept as in a park (guarded by Chinese soldiers) we there
agreed and bought one, which the Chinese man that
came with me led along the mad. But we had not
gone far before we were attacked by five Tartars,
mounted on horseback; two of whom seized the
man, took the camel from him, and rode away; but
the other three approached us, the first of which sud-
denly seizing me as I was drawing my sword, the se-
. cond knocked me down, and stunned me; but my old
trusty Portuguevu, taking a pistol out of his pocket,
which I knew nothing of, and coming up to the fel-
low that struck me, laid hold of him with one hand,
pulling him off his horse, and then shot him dead upon
the spot: Then taking his scymetar, he struck at
the man that stopt us, but missing him, cut off one
of his horse's ears, the pain of which made him throw
his rider to the ground, with himself upon him.
The poor Chinese, who had led the camel, seeing the
Tartar down, runs to him, and seizing upon his pole-
axe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked out his
brains. But there was another Tartar to deal with,
who seeming neither to fight nor fly, my old man be-
gan to charge his pistol; the very sight of which
struck such a terror in the wretch, that he scowered
away, leaving my old pilot, rather my champion and
defender, an absolute victory.
It was by this time, being awakened from my fleep,
as I thought, I began to open my eyes, wondering
where I was, quite forgetting all that was past: But
when my fenses returned, feeling a great pain in my
head, while the blood was running over my cloaths,
I instantly jumped upon my feet grasping my sword
. in my hand, with a resolution to take revenge; yet
no enemies appeared, except the dead Tartar, with
. his horse standing by him; but the old man feeing
me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran towards me,
and'vmbraced me with the greatest tenderness, at the
fame time examining into my wound ; but being far
from every body, we returned to the village, when
the man demanded. payment for his camel, which I
resusing, we brought the cause before a Chinese judge,
who acted with great impartiality. Having heard
both sides, he asked the Chinese man that went with
me, whose servant he was? Sir, said he, I am no-
body's, but went with the stranger, at his request:
Why then, said the judge, you were the stranger's
servant for the time, and the camel being delivered
to his servant is.the fame as being delivered to him-
self, and accordingly he must pay for it. Indeed the
'case was so fairly stated, that I had nothing to object
to it, so, having paid for what I was robbed of, I lent
for another, but did not go myself to fetch it, for I
bad enough of that sport before.' . '.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
pire, so fortified, as some tell you, that millions of
Tartars cannot batter down (the walls; by which
certainly one might think one; of our cannons would
do move.execution than all. their legions..
But the Governor of .that.city,' as we were within
a day's march of it, having sent messengers to every
pgrtof the road, to inform the travellers and caravans
to halt till he had sent a guard. to protect them from
the numerous bodies of Tartars that lately appeared
about the city; this news put us into great conster-
nation, but, obeying the orders; within two days
there came 200 soldiers from. a Chinese garrison, and
300 more from Naum: Thus, being guarded both in
the front and rear, with our own men on the sides,
we advanced boldly, thinking we wereiable to combat
10,000 Mogul Tartars, .if they had appeared, but were
forced to tell another story next day. .
for early next morning, marching from a little well-
situated town called Cbangu, after having passed a
'tiver, and entered upon a desert of above sifteen or
sixteen miles over, we soon beheld, by a cloud of
dust that was raised, that the enemy was approacning
towards us. This sight much dispirited the Chinese,
which appeared so plainly, that my old pilot took
. notice os it, and called out, Signior Inglese, these
fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
and I'm.afraid, if the Tartars attack us, they will all
run away. Why, Signior, said I, what shall be done
in this case ? Done, fays he, why let fifty of our
men advance, and then flanking on each wing, en-
courage them, for I know they will sight well enough
in company. Accordingly we took his advice,
marching fifty to the right wing, and the fame num-
ber to the left, and the rest made a line of reserve,
'leaving the last 200 men to guard the camels, or to
assist us as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of them came forward,
viewing our posture, and traversing the ground on the
front of our line: Hereupon we ordered the two
wings to fire, and each of them to give a salvo with
their shot, which accordingly was done. And this in-
. deed put a stop to their proceeding; for soon after
wheeling off to tkerr left, and undoubtedly giving an
: account to their companions what reception they
might expect, they gave over their enterprize.'°'
When we came to the city of Naum, we retured
the governor hearty thanks, arid gave 100 crowns
'among the soldiers that guarded us. We rested there
; but one day, and then proceeded on our travels,
passing several great rivers and deserts, till, on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of Muscovy,
the first town of which was called Argun.
This happy event, as I thought it, of coming into
a christian Country, made me congratulate the Setts
.merchant upon it: He smiled at that, telling me, not
to rejoice, too soon; for, sard he, except the Ruffian
B b soldiers
soldiers in garrison, and a few inhabitants os the
cities upon the road, all the rest of this country sor
above a thousand miles, is inhabited by the most ig-
norant and barbarous Pagans.
We advanced from the river Argun by moderate
journeys; and found convenient garrisons in the land
filled with Christian soldiers, for the security of com-
merce, and for the convenient lodging of travellers;
but the inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans,
worshipping the sun, moon and stars. And this
idolatry we met near Argun, at a city of the Tartan
and Russians joined together, called Nerifinkey: For
being curious to fee their way of living, while the
caravan continued to rest themselves in that city, I
.went to one of their villages, when there was to be
one of their solemn sacrifices. There behold upon
the stump of an old tree, was placed an idol of wood,
more ugly than the representation of the devil him-
self; its head was such as resembled no living crea-
ture; its ears were as big and high as goats horns,
a crooked nose, four-cornered mouth, and horrible
teeth: it was cloathed in sheep-skins, had a great
Tartar bonnet, with two horns growing through it, and
was eight foot high, without feet, legs or propor-
tion. Before this idol, there lay 16 or 17 people,
who brought their offerings, and were making their
prayers ; while at a distance stood three men and one
bullock, as victims to their ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this, in robbing the
true God of his honour, filled me with the greatest
astonishment and reflection ; which soon turning to
rage and sury, I rode up to to the image, and cut_in
pieces the bonnet that was upon his head with my
sword, so that it hung down by one of the horns;
while one of my men that was with me, pulled at it
by its sheep-skin garment: But immediately an hi-
deous howling and outcry ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people coming about our ears*
we were obliged to sly for it.
-But I had not done with the monster; for the ca-
ravan bting to rest three nights in the town, I told
the Scots merchant what I had seen, and I was re-'
solved to tike four ar sive men well armed with me,
in or lor to destroy th.'' idol,' and shew the people how
little reason they had to trust to it, who could not
save itsels. At fust he laughed at me, representing
the danger of it 5 and when it was destroyed, what
time had we to preach to them better things, whose
zeal and ignorance were'm the highest degree, and
both unparalelled ; that if 1 should be.taken by them,
I should be served like a poor Ruffian, who contemned
their worship; that is, be stripped naked, and tied to
the top of the idol, there shot at with arrows till
my body was sull of them, and then burnt as a sa-
crifice to the monster: But, Sir, said he, since your
zeal carries you so far, rather than you should be
alone, I will accompany you, and bring a stout fellow,.
equal to yourself, if he will assist us in this design:
And accordingly he brought one called Captain Ri-
chardson, who hearing the story, readily consented;
but my partner declined it, being altogether out os'
his way: And so we three, and my man servant,
resolved to execute this exploit about midnight; but
upon second thoughts we deferred it to the next night,
by reason the caravan being to go from thence next
morning, we should be out of the governor's power.
Well, I procured a Tartar's sheep-skin robe, a bon-
jiet, with bows and arrows, and every one of us got
the like habits. The first night we spent in.mixing
combustible matter with aqua-vitæ, gunpowder, &c..
having a good quantity of tar in a little pot. And
the last night coming to the idol about eleven o'clock,
the moon being up, we found none guarding; but
we perceived a light in the house, where we saw
the priests before. One man was for firing the hut,
another for killing the people, and a third for making
them prisoners, while the idol was destroyed. And,
in short, to the latter we agreed; so that knocking at
B b 2 the
the door, we seized the first that opened it, then stop-
ping his mouth, and tying his feet together, left him
with the idol. In this manner did we serve two others,
but the valiant Scots merchant being discovered at
length, rushed in upon them, being backed by us,
and set fire to the composition, which frightened
them so much, that we brought them all away, as
prisoners to their wooden god. Then we fell to work
with.him, daubing him all over with tar, mixed with
tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears and
mouth sull of gunpowder, with a great piece of wild
fire in his bonnet, and environed it with dry forage.
All this being done, we unloosened and ungagged
the prisoners, and set the idol on fire, which the gun-
powder blowing up, the shape of it was deformed,
rent and split, which the forage utterly consumed;
for we stayed to see its destruction, lest the ignorant
idolatrous people should have thrown themselves into
the flame. And thus we came away undiscovered,
appearing so busy in the morning among our fellow
travellers, that nohody could have suspected, but that
we had been in our beds all night. .; .
But after we were set out, and had got some small
distance from the city, there came a great multitude
of the country people to the gates, demanding sa-
tisfaction of the i?i^jSa«.Governor, for insulting their
priests, and burning their great Cham Chi Thaungu^
who dwelt in the sun, and that no mortal would vio-
late his image, but some Christian miscreants: And
therefore,. being already 30,000 strong, they de-
nounced war against. him and all bis Christians. .
The Governor assured them he was ignorant of the
matter, and that none of his garrison had been out;
that indeed there was a caravan that went away that
morning, that he would send after them to inquire into-
it, and whoever were the offenders should be deli-
vered into their hands. This satisfied them for the.
present; but the Governor sent to inform us, that if
any of us had done it, we should make our escape;
or
or if not, make all the haste away possible, while he
kept them in play as long as he could. Hereupon we
marched two days and two nights, stopping but very
little, till at last we rested at a village called Plothus,
and hasted to Jarawena, another of the Czar's colo-
nies. But on the second day's march from the for-
mer, having entered the desert, and passed the lake
Shaks-Oser, we beheld a numerous body of horse on
the other side of it to the north, who supposed we
had passed that side of the lake: and in three days
after, having'found their mistake, or been informed.
what way we went, they came upon us toward the
dusk of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp
between two little but very thick woods, with a little
river running before our front, and we cut down.
some trees to place in our rear, but before we bad.
finished our situation, the enemy were at hand. But
not falling on us immediately, they sent three meflen-
gers,. who demanded the men who had insulted their
priests, and burnt their god Cham Chi Thatmgu^ that
they might be burnt, and then they would peaceably.
depart; hut if not, they would destroy them a]l.
Hereupon .our men:stared at one another, .but nobody"
was the word, a3> indeed nobody. knew it but
who did it. Upon which. the leader of .the caravan
answered, that they were peaceable merchants, who
meddled with none of their priests or. gods ; and.
therefore defired them not to disturb us, .and put us to.'
the necessity. of defending ourselves.. But so  far. was
this from satisfying them,.that the next. morning,.
coming to our.right, they let. fly a volley of arrows
si us, but hurt not any, because we shckered .ourselves
under. the baggage: But as we expected to came to .
an engagement, a cunning father, a CoJJack, .obtain-
ing leave ot' the leader to .go to. these people,. mounts
his horse, and rides1 directly. from our. rear;. when.
taking a circuit, he conies back as though he had been
sent.express .} tills them a formal story, that .the vil-
B b 3 laiu;
lains who burnt the Cham Chi Thaungu, were gone to
Sibielfka, with a resolution to burn the god Shal-
lfar, belonging to the Tongueses. Upon which, be-
lieving this cunning Tartar, who was servant to our
Muscovites, away they drove to Sibeil/ka, and in less
than three hours were out of sight, nor did we ever
hear of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rested'
there five days, and then entered into a frightsul de-
sert, which held us twenty-three days march, infested
with several small companies of robbers or Mogul Tar-
tars, who never had the courage to attack us. But
after we had pasted over this place, we found several
Tartars: In particular the governor of Adinjkoy offered
us a guard of fifty men to the next station, if we ap-
prehended any danger. All this way the natives
retained the fame Paganism and barbarity, only not
so dangerous, being conquered ' by the Muscovites.
The cloathing, both of men and -women, are the
skins of beasts, living under ground in vaults and
caves, which run into one another t They have idols.
in almost every family; besides they adore the sun and
stars, water and snow, and the least uncommon
thing that happens in the element, alarms them as
much as thunder and lightning does the unbelieving
'Jews.
Through all the country nothing more remarkable
occurred : When we had got through this great desert I
before mentioned, after two days farther travel, we
came to Jane%ay, a Muscovite city, on the great^river
ib called, which, we are told, parts Europe from
Asia. Neither here are the Pagans much better, though
intermixed with the Muscovites; but the wonder will
cease, when I inform my reader of what was ob-
served to me, that the Czar converts the Tartars with
soldiers not clergymen, and is more assiduous to
make themfaithsul subjects than good Christians.
. from
From this city to the river Oby, we travelled over
s. pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country,.
for want of good management and people, and those.
few are mostly Pagans. This is the place where the
Jkfuscovite criminals are banished to, if they are
not put to death. The next city we came to, was
the capital city ofSiberia, called Tobeljki, when having
been almost seven months on our journey, and winter
drawing on apace, my partner and I consulted about
our particular asfairs, in what mannerweshould dispose
of ourselves. We had been told of fledges and rein-
deer, to carry us over the snow in the winter season,
the snow being frozen very hard, making an entire
covering to the ground, so that the fledges can run
s upon the surface without any regard to what is be-
neath. But I, being bound to England, must either
go with the caravan .XG^JereJlaw, thence west for
Narva, and the gulph of Finland, and so by land?
or sea to Denmark; or else I must leave the caravan
at a little town on the Dwina, and so go to Archangel,
where I Was sure of shipping either to England, Hol-
land or Hamburg. One night I fell in company with.
an illustrious, but banished prince, whose company
and virtues were such as made me propose a method'
to him to obtain his liberty. My dear friend, said'
he, as I am free from my miserable greatness, with
all its attendants of pride, aoibition, avarice and
luxury ; if I should escape from this place" those per-
nicious seeds may revive again, to my lasting disquie-
tude : Therefore let me stay in a blessed confinement.
For I am but flesh, a mere man, with passions and
affections as such : O be not my friend and tempter
too! Struck dumb with surprize, I stood silent a
while; nor was he in le{j disorder, by which perceiv-
ing he wanted to give vent to his mind, I defired him
to consider of it, and so withdrew. But about two
hours after he came to my apartment, Dear friend,
laid he> though I cannot consent to accompany you^ I
shall
shall have this satisfaction in parting, that you leave
tne an honest man still ; but as a testimony of my af-
fection to you, be pleased to accept this present of sa-
bles.
I sent my servant the next morning to his Lord-
ship, with a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of gold: But he on-
ly accepted the tea, one piece of damask, and a
wedge of gold, for the curiosity of the Japan stamp
upon it. Not long after he sent for me, and told me,
that what he had resused himself, he hoped, upon his
account, I would grant to another, whom he should
name : In short, it was his only son, who was above
200 miles distant from him on the other side of the
Oby, whom he could fend for, if I gave my consents
This I soon complied with, upon which he sent his .
servants the next day for his son, who returned in
twenty days time, bringing seven horses loaded with.
valuable surs. At night the young Lord was con-
ducted incog. to our apartment, where his father pre-
sented him to me. We then consulted the best way
for travelling, and, after "buying a.considerable quan-.
tity of sables, black fox-skins, fine ermines,' &c.
( which I sold at Archangel at a good price ) we set out.
of this city the beginning of "June, making a small.
caravan, being about 32 horses and camels, of which,
I represented, the head. My young Lord had with;
hinva..very faithsul Siberian servant, well acquainted!
with the roads:. We shunned the principal towns
and cities, as Xurhen\ SukKamaJkoi, and several others,.
by reason of their strictness in. examining travellers,.
Jest any of the banished persons of distinction should.
escape. Having passed the river .Kama., we. came to a.
city on.the European fide calledi Sdlgy-Katnfijkyi where.
we found the. people mostly Pagans as before.. We
then passed adesert abput 200 miles over, but in other'
places it is near 700 : In passing this wild place, we.
were beset. by a troop of. men on. horseback, about.
fortyr.
4btfty-five, armed with bows and arrows. At first
they looked earnestly on us, and then placed them-
selves in our way. We were above sixteen men,
and drew up in a little line before our camels. My
young Lord sent out his servant to know who they
were; but when he approached them, he neither
knew a word they said, nor would they admit him to
come near them at his peril, but prepared to shoot'
him. At his return he told us, he believed them to /
be Calmuci Tartars, and that he thought there were
more of them upon the desert. This was but a small
comfort to us, yet seeing a little grove at about a
quarter of a mile distance, we moved to it by the
old Portugueze pilot's advice, without meeting any
opposition. In this place we found a springy piece! .
of ground, a great spring running into a1 little brook.
on one side, joined with another like it a little farther,
which in short was the head of the river Writfka.
We went to work, immediately cutting down great
arms of trees, and laid them hanging ( not quite cut
off) from one tree to another. And thus we waited .
the motions of the enemy, without perceiving any
advance they made towards us: But about two hours
before night, being joined by some others, they made
about So horse, among whom we fancied were some
women, and coming on us with great sury, we firei;
without ball, calling to them in the Ruffian tongue to*
know their business ; but they not understanding us,
or pretending so, came directly to the weod-side, /
not considering that we were so fortified, that they"
could not break in. Our old pilot proved both our
captain and engineer, and defired us not to fire till .
they came within pistol-sliot, and he gave the word
of command; then to take the surest aim: But he
did not bid us fire, till they were within two pikes of' .
us; and then we killed 15 of them, wounded several,
as also their horses, having every one charged with
two or three balls at least. So much were they sur-
prized at our nrrdauntedness, that they fell back about
100
100 rods from us. In the mean time, we loaded
again, and all sallying out, secured four or five of
their horses, whose rickrs we found were killed, and
perceived them to bt; Tartars. About an hour after
they made another attempt to break in, but sinding
us ready to receive them, they retired. .
All that night we worked hard in strengthening our
situation, and barracadoing the entrances into the
woods; but when day-light came, we made a very
unwelcome discovery; tor the enemy being encou-
raged by their assistance, had set up eleven or twelve
tents, in the form of a camp, about three quarters
of a mile from us. I must confess, I was never more
concerned in my life, giving myself, anil all that I
had over for lost : As for my partner, as the loss of his
goods would be his ruin, before they should be taken
from him, he would sight to the last drop of his
blood. But to escape their numbers, I had recourse
to a stratagem, by kindling a large slame to burn all
night; and no sooner was it dark, but we pursued
our journey towards the pole, or the north star, and
so travelling all night, by six o'clock in the morn-
ing we came to a Ruffian village, called Kermanzin-
Jkoy, Vhcre we passed a little river called Kerzta, and
from thence came to a large town named Ozonoys,
where we .neard that several troops of Calmuck Tar-
tars had been abroad upon the desert, but that we.
Were past all danger. Within sive days after, we
came to VtuJKmas upon the river Wiizedga: From
thence we came to Lawrenfkoy, on the 3d of July,
where providing ourselves with two luggage-boats
and a convenient bark, we embarked the 7th, ar.d
arrived at Archangel the r8ih, after a year, five
months, and three days journey, including the eight
months and odd days we spent at Toboljki. We
* came from Archangel the 20th of August in the same
year, and ar/ived at the Elbe the 30th of September.
Ar.d here indeed my partner and 1 made a very good
sale of our goods, both those of China and Siberia,
when dividing our effects, my (hare came to 3475/.
17 s. 3 d. after all the losses we had sustained, and
charges we had been at. At Hamburg my young
Lord parted from me, in order to go to the court of
Vienna, not only to seek protection, but to corre-
spond with his father's friends: And, after we had
staid four months at Hamburg, I came from thence
over land to the Hague, where embarking in the
packet, I arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705, after ten years and nine months absence
from England.
ROBINSON
ROBINSON CRUSOE'S VISION
OF THE
ANGELIC WORLD.
CHAPTER t
Of Solitude.
HOWEVER solitude is looked upon as a re-
straint to the pleasures of the world, in
company and conversation; yet it is a hap-
py state of exemption from a sea of trouble, an
inundation of vanity and vexation and disappoint-
ment. While we enjoy ourselves, neither the joy
nor sorrow of other men affect us: We are then at
i liberty, with the voice. of our foul, to speak to God.
By this we shun such frequent trivial discourse, as ever
'f becomes an obstruction i6 virtue: And how often do
we find we had reason to wish we had not been in
company, or said nothing when we were there: For
either we offend God by the impiety of our discourse,
or lay ourselves open to the violence of designing peo-
ple by unguarded expressions :And consequently per-
ceive the coldness and treachery of pretended friends,
when once involved in trouble and affliction: And
such unfaithsul intimates (I should say enemies ) who
rather by false inuendoes would accumulate miseries
upon us, than honestly assist us when suffering under
trie most artsul and designing men.' But in a state
of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard ex-
cept by the^ Great Majesty of Heaven, how happy are
we, in the blessed enjoyment of converse with our
maker ! 'Tis then we make him our friend, which
makes us above the envy and contempt of wicked
men. And when a man converses with himself,
he is sure that he does not converse with an ene-
my : At least, we should retreat to good company,
and good books: I mean not by solitude that a man
should retire into a cell, a desert, or a monastery,
which would be altogether an useless and unprofitable
restraint: For as men are formed for society, and
have an absolute necessity and dependence one upon
another; so there is a retirement of the foul, in
which it converses with heaven, even in the midst of
men: And indeed no man is more' fit to speak freely,
than he, who can without any violence to himself, re-
frain his tongue, or keep silent altogether. As to
religion, it is by this the foul gets acquainted with
the hidden mysteries of the holy writings: here she
sinds these floods of tears, in which good men wash
themselves day and night; and only makes a visit to
God, and his holy angels. In this conversation the"
truest peace and most solid joy are to be found ; it is u
continual feast of contentment on earth, and the?
means of attaining everlasting happiness in heaven.
CHAP. II.
Os Honesty.
T T ONESTYisa virtue beloved by good most, and"
*. .*. pretended to by all persons: In this there are se-
veral degrees: To pay every man his own, is the com-
mon law of honesty; but to do good to all mankind,
is the Chancery law of honesty ; and this chancery
court is in every man's breast, where his Conscience is
Lord Chancellor. Hence it is that a miser, tho' he pays
every one their own, cannot be an honest man, when
he does not discharge the good offices that are incum-
bent on a friendly, kind and generous person : For the
C c proplut
prophet Isaiah faith, ch. xxxvii. 7, 8. The instru-
ments of a churl are evil: He devifeth wicked devices
to dejlroy the poor with lying words, even when the
needy spcaketh right. But the liberal devijeth liberal
things, and by liberal things jhallhe/land. 'Tis certainly
honesty, to do every thing the law requires; but
should we throw every poor debtor in prison .till he
has paid the utmost farthing, hang everjr malefactor
without mercy, exact the penalty of every bond, and
the forfeiture of every indenture : why this would be
downright cruelty, and not honesty; and is contra-
ry to that general rule, to do to another, that which you
would have done unto you. Sometimes necessity makes
an honest man a knave, when a rich man is an ho-
nest man, but no thanks to him for it. | The trial
of honesty is this: Did you ever want bread, and had
your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would starve,
rather than eat it ? Were you ever arrested; having in
your custody another man's cash, and would "rather
gorto gaol than to break it ? If so, then indeed this
maybe reckoned honesty. For King Solomon tells us,
that a good name is better than life, and is a precious
ointment, 'and which, when a man has once lo/}, he has
nothing left worth keeping.
CHAP. III.
- Of suffering JJfliclions.
A Fflictions are very common to all mankind,
and whether they proceed from losses and disap-
pointments, or the malice of men, they often bring
their advantages along with them :' For this shews
men the vanity and deceitsulness of this life, and
is an occasion of rectifying our measures, and bring-
ing us to a more modest opinion of ourselves : It tells
us how necessary the assistance of divine grace is to
us, when life itself becomes a burthen, and death
even defirable. But when the greatest oppression
comes
comes upon us, we must have recourse to Patience,
begging of God to give us that virtue. And the
more composed we are in any trouble,' the more com-
mendable is our wisdom; and the larger will be our
recompence. And let the provocation be what it
will, whether from a good-natured and conscientious,
ora wicked, perverse, and vexatious man, all this we
should take as from the over-ruling hand of God, as
a punishment for our sins. Many times injured in-,
iiocence may be abused by false oaths, or the power of
wicked, jealous, or malicious men; but we often
find it, like the palm, rife the higher, the more it is
depressed, while the justice of God is eminently re-
markable in punishing those one way or other, who
defire or endeavour to procure the downfal of an in-
nocent man: Nor does God fail comforting an af-
flicted person, who with tears and prayers solicits
the throne of heaven for deliverance and protection.
David fays, That his foul was full of trouble, and his
life drew near unto the grave. But certainly David's
afflictions made him eminently remarkable, particu-
larly when pursued by King Saul, and hunted as a
partridge over the mountains. But one thing which
stands by innocence, is the love of God: For were
we to suffer disgrace, nay, an ignominious death it-
self, what consolation does innocence procure at our
latest conflict, our last moments?
CHAP. IV.
Of Immorality. of Conversation, and the vulgar Errors
of Behaviour.
A S conversation is a great part of human happi-
ness, so it is a pleasant sight to behold a sweet
tempered man, who is always fit for it; to fee an air
of humour and pleasantness sit upon every brow, and
even something angelic upon every countenance:
Whereas if we observe a designing man, we shall find
C c 2 a mark
and a certain insurrection in the soul against the ty-
ranny of profligate principles. N .
They err very much, who think religion, or a strict
morality discomposes the mind, and renders it unfit
for conve'sation ; for it is "rather that which inspires
us to innocent mirth, indeed, without a counterfeit
joy, as vicious men appear with: And indeed wit is
as consistent with religion, as religion is with good
manners; nor is there any thing in the limitation of
virtue and religion, that should abate the pleasure of
it, but on the contrary increase it.
But on the other hand, many men, by their own
vice and intemperance, disqualify themselves for con-
versation, in being of cynical, morose, surly and rude
tempers, though they boast themselvesotherwife. Con-
versation is immoral, where .discourse is indecent,
immodest, scandalous, slanderous and abusive. How
great is their folly, and how much it is exposed, by
affronting their best friend, even God himself, before
men, whose notions are uncertain, and yet who
laugh at the fool when his fear cometh!
The great scandal atheistical and immoral discourse
gives to virtue, ought, ;nethinks, to be punished by
the judges: Make a man once cease to believe a God,
and he has nothing left to limit his foul but mere phi-
losophy. And how incongrous is this to govern-
ment, that a man should be punished for drunkenness
or swearing, and yet have liberty to affront, and even
deny the Majesty of Heaven? If a man gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, or perhaps speaks a word
without any offensive meaning, he flies into a passion,
quarrels, fights, and perhaps murders him; or after-
ward* prosecutes him at Jaw with the utmost villainy
and oppression.
"The next thing to be refrained is obscene discourse,
which is the language only of the proficients in de-
bauchery, who ;iever repent but in a gaol or an hos-
pital;
pital; and whose carcasses stink as bad as their dis-
course, till the body becomes too nasty for the soul
tojtay any longer in it.
Nor is false talking less to be avoided: For lying
is the sheep's cloathing hung upon the wolPs back;
'tis the Pharisee's pra)er, the whore's blush, the hy-
pocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the thief's
cloak, 'tis Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss; in a
word, 'tis mankind's darling sin, and the devil's
distinguishing character. Some add lies to lies, till
it not only comes to be improbable, but even impos-
sible too: Others lie for gain, to deceive, delude, and
betray: And a third fort lie for sport, or for fun'.
There are other liars, who are personal and mali-
cious ; who foment differences, and carry tales from
one house to another, in.order to gratify their own
envious tempers, without any regard or reverence for
truth.
C H A P. V.
Of the present State of Religion in'the World.
T Doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than
.* religion in the world, more adoration than sup-
plication, and more hypocrisy than sincerity: And it
is very melancholy to consider, what numbers of.
people there are, surnished with. the powers of rea-
son and the gifts of nature, and. yet abandoned to.
the grossest ignorance and depravity. But it would
be uncharitable for. us to . imagine, (as some Papists
abounding vvith too much. ill-nature, the only scan-
dal to religion, do) that they will certainly be in the
state of damnation aster.this life: For how can we
thinst it consistent. with the mercy and goodness of
an infinite beiii?, to damn those creatures, when he:
has not surnishcdthern with the light of his gospel P
Or how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots
prescribe rules to the justice and mercy of God \
C c 3 We
We are told by some people, that the great image
which King Nebuchadnezzar set up to be adored by
his people, held the representation of the sun in his
right hand, as the principal object of adoration.
But to wave this discourse of Heathens, how many
self-contradicting principles are held amongChristians?
And how do we doom one another to the devil, while
all profess to worship the fame Deity, and to expect
the fame salvation?
When I was at Portugal there was held at that
time the court of justice of the inquisition. All the
criminals were carried in procession to the great
church; where eight of them were habited in gowns
and caps of canvas, whereon the torments of hell
were displayed, and they were condemned and burnt
for crimes against the Catholic faith and Blessed
Virgin.
1 am sorry to make any reflections upon Christians;
but indeed in Italy the Romijh religion seems the most
cruel and mercenary upon earth: And a very Judi-
cious person who travelled through Italy from Turkey
tells us, " That there is only the face, and outward
pomp of religion there; that the church protects
murderers and assassins, and then delivers the civil
magistrates'over to Satan for doing justice; interdicts
whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches for want
of paying a few ecclesiastic dues, and so puts a stop to
religion for want of their money: That the Court
of Inquisition burnt two men for speaking dishonour-
ably of the Blessed Virgin, and the miffionaries. of
China tolerated the worshipping the devil by their new
converts: That Italy was the theatre, where religion
was the grand opera; and that the Popish clergy were
no other than the stage-players."
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah was come in the flesh.
And as to their Protestants, they are the followers of
Lelius Secinus, who denied our Saviour's divinity;
and have no concern about the divine inspiration of
the Holy Ghost. 1st
In Muscovy their churches are built of wood, and"
indeed they have but wooden^ priests, though of the
Greek church: They pray as much to St. Nicholas, as
Papists do to the Virgin Alary, for protection in all
their difficulties or afflictions.
As to Lutherans, they only differ from the Romans
in believing Consubstantiation, instead of Transub-
ftantiation; but like them they are much pleased
.with the external gallantry and pomp, more than the
true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets
.every where crowded with them, and the Churches
full of women ; but surely never was a nation so sull
of blind guides, so ignorant of religion, and even.
as void of morals, as those people who confess their
fins to them,
Now it seems strange, that while all men own the
Divine Being, there should be so many different sen-
timents of paying him obedience in the Christian
church : I know not what reason to assign for this,
except it be their different capacities and faculties.
And indeed upon this account, we have perceived
in all Christian countries what mortal feuds have
been about religion : what wars and bloodshed have
molested Europe, till the general pacification of the
German troubles at the treaty of JVeJiphalia; and
since between the Lutheran churches ? And should I
take a prospect at home, what unhappy divisions are
between Christians in this kingdom about Episcopacy,
Presbytery,. the Church of England men and the
Dissenters; and where they withstand one another,
like St. Paul and St. Peter, even to the face; as
much as to fay, carry on the dispute to the utmost
extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such differ-
ences in religious points, and why these breaches
should.be so hot and irreconcileable ? All the answer
I can give to this, is,that we enquire more concern-
ing
mg the truth os religion, than any other nation in the
world; anil the anxious concern we have about it
makes us jealous of every opinion; and tenacious of
% our own: And this is not because we are more su-
rious and rash than other people; but the truth is,
we are more concerned about them, and being sensi-
ble that the scripture is the great rule of faith, the
standard for life and dodtrine, we have recourse to
it ourselves, without submitting to the pretended in-
fallible judge upon eirth.
There is another question, pertinent to the former,
what remedy can we apply to this malady? And to
this I must negatively answer, not to have us be less
religious, that we might differ less about it: And this
is striking at the very root of all religious differences;
for certainly, where they to be carried on with a peace-
able spirit, willing to be informed, our variety of
opinions would not have the name of differences;
nor should we separate in communion of charity,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less usesul question to start, namely,
where will our unhappy religious differences end ? To
which I hope I may answer, In Heaven: There all
unchristian and unbrotherly differences will find a pe-
riod; there we shall embrace many a sinner that here
we think it a dishonour to converse with; and per-
ceive many a heart we have broken here with ceiir-
sures, reproaches and revilings, made whole again
by the Iftlm of the fame Redeemer's blood. Here we
shall perceive there have been other flocks than those
of our fold ; that those we have excommunicated have
been taken into that superior communion v and, in a
word', that those contradicting notions and principles,.
which we thought inconsistent with true rejigion, we
shall then find rcconcileable to themselves, to one an-
other, and to the fountain of truth. If any man
ask me, why our differences cannot be ended on
earth? I answer, were we all thoroughly convinced,
. that
that then they would be reconciled, we would put an
end to them before; but this is impossible to be done:
for as ^mens certain convictions of truth are not
equal to one another, or to the weight and signisican-
cy of such veracity; so neither can a genera] esfect
of this affair be expected on this side of time, this
side of the grave.
Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg leave
to difcourle a little of the wondersul excellency ©f ne-
gative religion and negative virtue. The latter sets
out like the Pharisee, with God, I thank thee; 'tis
a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's hope;
and in a word, 'tis a positive vice: For it is either
a mask to deceive others, or a mist to deceive ourselves.
A man thus cloathed with negatives, thus argues : I
am not such a drunkard as roy landlord, such a thief
as my tenant, such a swearer as my neighbour ; nei-
ther am I a cheat, an atheist, a rakish fellow, or a
highwayman : No! I live a sober, regular, retired
life: I am a good man, I go to church, God I thank
thee. Now though a man boastsof his virtue in contra-
diction to the vices mentioned, yet a person had bet-
ter be them all together than the man himself, for he is
so sull of himself, so persuaded that he is good and
religious enough already, that he has no thoughts of
any thing, except it be to pull off his hat to God
Almighty now and then, and thank him, that he has
no occasion for him; and has the vanity to think
that his neighbours must imagine well of him too.
Now the negative man though he is no drunkard,
yet is intoxicated with the pride of his own worth:
A good neighbour and peacemaker in other families,
but a tyrant in his own; appears in church for
a shew, but never falls upon his knees in his closet;
does all his alms before men to be seen by them;
eager in the duties of the second table, but regard-
less of the first; appears religious to be taken notice
of by men, but without intercourse or communication
between God and his own foul. Pray what is this
. man?
man? Or what comfort is there of the life he lives?
He is insensible of faith, repentance, and a chris-
tian mortified life: In a word, he is perfectly
a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us, for a while, enter into the private and re-
tired part of his conversation: What notions has he
ofhismispent hours, and of the natural reflux of all
our minutes on to the great center and gulph of
life, Eternity ? Does he know how to put a right
value on time, or esteem the life-blood of his foul,
as it really is, and act in all the moments of it, as one
that must account for them? If then you cannot form an
equality between what he can do, and what he shall re-
ceive; less can it be founded upon his negative vin
tue, or what he forbore to do; and if neither his ne-
gative or positive piety can be equal to the reward,
and to the eternity that reward is to last for, what
then is become of the Pharisee, when he is to be
judged by the sincerity of his repentance, and re-
warded according to the infinite grace of God, with
a state of blessedness to an endless eternity?
When the negative man converses with the invisi-
ble world, he is filled with as much horror and
dread, as Fxlix, when St. Paid reasoned to him of
temperance, righteousness, and of judgment to come:
For Falix, though a great philosopher, of great power
and reverence, was a negative man ; and he was
made sensible, by the apostle, that as a life of virtue
and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life; so
eternal happiness must proceed from another spring;
namely, the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked
God, who having erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus
Christ would separate suerras by faith and repentance
he had brought home and united to himself by thegrace
of adoption; and on the foot of his having laid down
his life as a ransom for them, had appointed them to
salvation, when all the philosophy, temperance, and
righteousness in the world besides, was ineffectual,
and
and this, I fay, it was that made Falix, this nega-
tive man, tremble. .
C H A P. VI.
Os listening to the Voice of Providence.
'T^HE magnisicent and wife King Solomon bids us cry
*~ aster knowledge, and list up our voice for under-
standing; which is explained to us a religious know-
ledge by the following words: Then jhalt thou under-
Jland the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of
God. By which undoubtedly he meant, to enquire
after every thing that he has permitted us to know,
and not to search into those ways that are unsearch-
able, and are effectually locked up from our know-
ledge. Now, as listening to the Voice of Providence is
my present subject, I am very willing in the first place,
to suppose, that I am writing to those who own, I.
That there is a. God, a first great moving cause of all
things, an eternal power, prior, and consequently
superior, to all power and being. 2. That this eter-
nal power, which is God, is the sovereign creator
find governor ofheaven and earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions what persons in
'the Godhead exercise the creating, and what the go-
verning power, I offer that glorious text, Ps. xxxiii.
6. where the whole trinity is entitled to the whole
creating work; and therefore in the next place, I
shall lay down these two propositions.
I. That the Eternal God guides by his Providence the
whole universe, which was h eated by his povier.
II. Tljut this Providence manifests a particular care
over, and concern in the governing and diretling
man, the most noble creature upon earth.
Now it is plain, that natural religion proves the
sirst, by intimating the necessity of a Providence
guiding and governing the world, from the conse-
quence of the wisdom, justice, prescience, r.nd good-
ness
ness of the Almighty Creator: For otherwise it would
be absurd to think that God should create a world,
without any care or providence over it, in guiding
v the operations of nature, so as to preserve the order
of his. creation.
Revealed religion gives us light into the care and
concern of his Providence, by the climates being
made habitable, the creatures subjected and made nou-
rishing, and all vegetative life made medicinal; and
all this for the fake of man, who is made viceroy to
the king of the earth. The short description I shall
give of Providence is *his, that it is that operation
of the power, of the wisdom, justice and goodness
of God, by which he influences, governs and directs,
not only the means, but the events of all things,
which concern us in this sublunary world; the sove-
reignty of which we ought always to reverence, obey
its motions, observe its dictates ; and listen to its voice.
The prudent man foreseeth evil, and hideth hintfelf;
that is, as I take it, there is a secret Providence inti-
mates.tous, that some danger threatens, if we strive
not to shun it.
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull
against the royal martyr King Charles I. the same day
Sir "John Hotham was put to death by the parliament
for that vety action : the fame day that the King
himself signed the warrant for the execution of the
Earl of Stafford, the same day of the month was he
barbarously murdered by the blood-thirsty Oliverian
crew : And the lame day that King 'James II. came
to the crown against the bill os exclusion, the same
day he was voted abdicated by the parliament, and the
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden dan-
gers, is not only a just call to repentance, but a cau-
tion against falling.into the like danger : But such,
who are utterly careless of themselves after, shew
a lethargy of the worst nature, which seems to me to
be a kind of practical atheism, or at least a living in
a contempt of heaven, when he receives good at the
hand of his maker, but is unconcerned at the nature
and original of it; neither when he receives evil does
it bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being
condemned to death in Flanders, the general being
prevailed upon to spare one of them, ordered them to
cast dice upon the drum head for their lives: The
first throwing two sixe?, wrung his hands, but was
surprized when the other threw two sixes also. The
osficer appointed to fee the execution ordered them to
throw again ; they did so, and each of them threw two
fives; at which the soldiers that stood round shouted,
and said neither of them was to die. Hereupon the
osficer acquainted the council of war, who ordered
them to throw again, and.then came up two sours:
The general being made acquainted with it, fends
for the men, and pardoned them: / love, fays he,
in such extraordinary cases to lijlen to the voice of Pro-
vidence. . .'
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks to
men, by . appearance of angel?, or by dreams and
visions of the night. As God appeared to Abraham,
Lot, and Jacob; so angels have appeared to many in
other cafes, as Manoah and his wife, 'Lacharia, the
Virgin Mary, and to the apostles; others have been
warned in a dream, as King Alimilech,. the false pro-
phet Balaam, and many others.
"It is certainly a very great and noble enquiry, what
we shall be after this life, being assured that there is
a place reserved for the reception of cur souls afte/
death: For if we are to be, we must have a lu.hcre,
which the scriptures assert by the examples of Dives
and Lazarus. The dodtrine of spirits was long be-
lieved before our Saviour's time; for even the dis-
ciples of the blessed Jesus perceiving our Saviour walk-
ing on the sea, they were much surprized, as though
D d they
they had seen a spirit. Nay, in those ages of the.
World, it was believed that spirits intermeddled in
the affairs of mankind; and throughout the Old
Testament I do not find any institution, that in the
least contradicts it. All the pains and labour that
some learned men have taken to consute the story os
the witch oiEndar, and the appearance of an old man
personating Samuel, cannot make such apparitions in-
consistent with nature or religion: And it is plain,
that, was it either a good or/ bad spirit, it prophetically
told the unfortunate king what should happen the
next day: For, said the spirit, The Lord will deliver
thee into the hand of the Philijlines; and to-morrow. jhalt
thou, and thy sons, be with me.
Abundance of strange notions possessed me when I
was in the desolate island; especially of a moonshiny
night, when every bush seemed a man, every. tree a
man on horseback. When I crept into the dismal
cave, where the old goat lay expiring, whose articu-
late groans even resembled those of a man, how was
I surprized on this occasion, when my blood chillei
in my veins, a cold sweaty dew fat on my forehead,'
my hair stood upright, and my joints, like Beljhaz-
zar's knees, shook against one another. And indeed,
though I afterwards found what it was, the remains
of this surprizedid not wear off me for a great while;
and I had frequently some returns of those vapours
on different occasions, and sometimes without any oc-
casion at all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in
the air, as I had just laid down in my bed, one of
my feet pained me, after that came a numbness suc-
ceeded with a tingling in my blood; when on a. sud-
den I thought something alive lay upon me, from my
knee to above half my leg. Hereupon.immediately
I flung myself out of bed in the dark, where I thought
the creature lay: But finding nothing, Lord deliver mt
from an evil spirit) said.I, what can this be? And
when
creature in the place with me, but the poor parrot,
who being frighted, cried out, Isold your tongue, and
Whilt't the matter with you? which words I ha<{
taught him, by faying so to him, when hemade such
screaming noises that I did not like. Lord, said I
aloud, surely the dsv'd htis been here. Hold your tongue,
lays Poll. I then was mad at the bird, and putting
on my cloaths, cried I am terribly frighted. Wbat's
the matter with you? fays Poll. You toad, said I,
I'll knock your brains out. Hold your tongue, cried
he again, and so fell a chattering, and calling Robin-
son Crusoe, as be did before But after I had composed
myself, and went to bed again, I began plainly to see
it was a distemper that affected the nerves, and so
my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not
know ; nor are we sensible of their being conveyed this
way, from the spirits unembodied, to ours that are
in life ; or of their being conveyed that way, name-
ly, from us to them.: The. latter certainly is done
without the help of organs, and the former is con-
veyed by the understanding, and the retired faculties
of the foul. . .
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse.
The more particular discoveries of the converse of
sprits, seem to me as follow:
Dreams, voices, noises, impulses, hints, appre-
hensions, involuntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God him-
self was .pleased to warn men what services to per-
form, and what to shun. Jtffh was directed of God
m a dream to go to Egypt, and so were the wise men
warned in a dream to depart into their own country
another way, to avoid the sury of Herod. I am not
like those who think dreams are the mere dosing of
a delirious he ad, or the relicts of a day's perplexities or
pleasures; but on the contrary, I must take leave.to
D d % fay,
say, I never had any capital mischief besel me in my
life, but I had some notice of it by a dream ; and
had I not been^ thoughtless unbelieving creature, I
might have taken many a warning, and avoided ma-
ny of the evils I afterwards fell into, merely by a to-
tal neglect of those dreams.
I remember, I was present at a dispute between a
layman and a clergyman upon the subject of dreams:
The first thought no regard should be given unto
them, that their communication from the invisible to
the visible world was a mere chimera, without any
solid foundation: For, i. (said he) if dreams were
from the agency of any prescient being, the motive*
would be more direct, and the discoveries more plain;
and not by allegories and emblematic fancies expres-
sing things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid
it, it is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely
fortuitous. 3. That the inconstancy of such notices,
in cafes equally important, prove they did not pro-
ceed from any such agent. 4. That as our most dis-
tinct dreams had nothing in them of any significancy,
it would be irrational and vain to think that they came
from heaven. And, 5. That as men were not always
thus warned or supplied with notice of good or evil,
so all men are not alike supplied with them ; and what
reason could we give, why one man or one woman
lhould not have the same hints as another.
To all this the clergyman gave answer, 1. That
as to the signification of dreams, and the objections
against.them, as being dark and doubtsul, they are ex-
pressed generally by hieroglyphical representations, si-
milief, illusions, and sigurative emblematic ways, by
which means, for want of interpretation, the thing
was not. understood, and consequently the evil not
shunned..2. That we charge God foolishly, to fay he
has given the notice of evil without the power to
avoid it; for if any one had not power to avoid the
evii,
'evfl, it was no notice to him; and it was want of
giving due heed to' that notice, that men first. ne-
glected themselves, and then charged the Judge of all
the earth with injustice, 3. That we ought not to
find fault with the inconstancy of these notices, but
rather our crazy understandings by pretending dreams
were not to be regarded, and neglect when the voice
really spoke to us for our good. It was a great mis-
take to say dreams had no import at all; it might
rattier be said, none that we could perceive the rea-
son of, which was owing'to our blindness and supine
.negligence to be secure at one time, and our heads
too much alarmed at another; so that the spirit which
we might be said to be converting with in a dream,
was Constantly and equally kind and caresul; but our
powers Hot always in the fame state of action, nor
equally attentive to or retentive of the'hints that were
'given.. And, 5. To answer the last question,. why
people are not equally supplied? This seemed to be
no question; for Providence itself might have some
stiarein the diruction of it, and then that Providence
might be limited'by some superior direction; That
as to the converse of spirits, he could not tie aip to a
stated converse: Such a thing there Was, but why
there was so much of it, and'no more,' was none of
his business, and that nofuch discovery had ever been
made yet to mankind. Nor are we less to imagine of
waking dreams, trances, visions, moists, hints, im-
pulses, and all the waking testimonies of an in visible
world, and cf the communication thafth're is be-
tween us and them, which commonly enttrtain us
with our eyes open. .
One time my fancy soared on high, to fee what
discoveries I could make in those cleaner regions^ I
sound that such immense'bodies es the sun, stars, pla-
nets and moons in the great circle of the lower hea>-
ven. is far from being souad in the study cf nature*
<>n the surface of the earth: Here I saw many things
D d 3 that.
that we can entertain little or no notion of in a state
of common superficial life, and the emptiness of "our
notion that the planets were made habitable worlds;
that is, I mean, for the subsistence and existence of
man and beast, and the preservation of the vegetative
and sensitive life: No, no, this is, I assure you, a
world of spirits: For here I saw a clear demonstra-
tion of Satan being the prince of the power of the
air, keeping his court or camp, with innumerable
angels to attend him: But his power is not so great
as we imagine, he can tempt us to the crime, but
cannot force us to commit it: Humanum ejl peccare.
Neither has the devil power to force the world into
a rebellion against heaven, though his legions are em-
ployed in the savage nations to set up their master for
a god, and who made the Heathens either worship
him in person, or by his representatives, idols and mon-
sters, with the cruel sacrifices of human blood. Now
as to the limitations of the devil's power, you must
understand, that there are numbers of good
angels sent from the higher and blest abodes, to dis-
concert and oppose their measures: And this every
Christian, I hope, believes when he prays to God, the
father of spirits, to give his angels charge over him
while he flumbereth and ileepeth. For if by these
preventing powers the devil was not restrained, the
earth would be subjected to dearth, droughts and
famine; the air infected with noxious sumes ; and,
in a word, mankind would be utterly destroyed,
which might oblige our maker to the necessity of a
new Fiat, or else have no more creatures to honour
and worship him. . .
As the devil neve;' wanted insinuators, I shall ob-
serve, that I learned a way how to make a man dream
of what I pleased. For instance, let us suppose one to
be sound afleep, let another lay his mouth close to his
ear, and whisper any thing so softly as not to awake
him, the sleeping man shall dream os what has been
so whispered in his ear; nay, I can assure you, these
insinuating devils can do this even when we are awake,
which I call Impulses of the mind : For from whence,
but from these insinuators, come our causeless passions,
involuntary wickedness, or sinsul defires I who
else forms ideas in the mind of man when he is
sfleep, or presents terrible or beautisul figures to the
fancy? Mr. Milton represents the devil tempting
Eve in the shape of a toad lying just at her ear,
when in her bower she lay fast asleep; and brings in
Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's rest she
had, and relating her dream to him. And likewise
I believe that good spirits have the fame intercourse
with us, in warning us against those things that arc
evil, and prompting us to those which are good.
Were we to have the eyes of our fouls opened through
the eyes of our bodies, we should see this very imme-
diate region of air which we breathe in, thronged.with
spirits now invisible, and which otherwise would be
the most terrible : We should view the secret transac-
tions .of those messengers who are employed. when the
parting foul takes its leave of the reluctant body, and
perhaps fee things nature would start back from
with the utmost terror and amazement. In a word,
the' curtain of. providence for the disposition of
things here, and the curtain of judgment for the .
determination of the state of fouls hereafter, would
be alike drawn back; and what heart could support
here its suture state in life, much less. that of its
suture state after life, even good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance,. being about se-
ven miles distant from London, a friend that came to
dine with him, solicited him to go to the city. What
for, said the gentleman,. is there any occasion for me?
no, Sir, said the other,. nothing at all, except the en-
joyment of your good company; and so gave over im-
portuning him. Just then a strong impulse of |mind
urged
srged the gentleman, and pursued him like a voice",
with^ go to London, go to London. Hark ye, says he
to his friend, is all well at London? Am I wanted
there? Or did you ask me to go with you on any par-
ticular account? are all my family well? Yes, in-
deed, Sir, said he, I perceived them all very hearty ; and
I did not ask ydu to go to London upon any particular
account whatsoever, except it was for tile fake of
your good Company. Again, tie put off his resolu-
tion, but still the impulse suggested to him, Go f»
London; and at length he did so; and when became
th.sre he found a letter and messenger had been . there
to seek him, and'to tell him of a particular business,
which was first and last above a thousand pounds to
hi«n, and which might have inevitably been lost, had
, he not. returned to London that night.::
The obeying of several hints, hi secret impulses,
argues great wisdom. I knew a m.aflthat was under
misfortunes, being guilty os'misdemeanors against the
governments when, .absconding for fear of His ruin,
all his friends advising him not to put himself in the
hands of the law^ one morning as he awaked, he
felt a strong impulse darting into his mind thu», IVrltt
a letter to them: And this was repeated several times'
to his mind, and at last he answered to it as if it had
been a voice, Who jhall 1write to? Immediately.it re-
turned, Write to the Judge: And this impulse pursued
him for several days, till at length he took pen, ink
and paper, and set down to write to him; when im-
mediately words. flowed from his pen like streams
from a fair fountain, that even charmed'himself with
expectation of success: In short, the letter was so
strenuous an argument, so pathetic ift its eloquence-
and persuasively moving, that when the judge had
read it, he sent him an answer he might be easy, for
he would endeavour to make that matter light to him;
and indeed never left exerting himself, till he had stopt
the
the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty and
family.
I knew a person, who had so strong an impression
upon her mind, that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not go to steep,
the impulse she had upon her mind pressed" her not to
go to bed, which however she resisted and went to
bed, but was terrified with the thought, which, as
she called it, run in her mind, that the house would
be burnt, that she could not go to sleep. So much
discovery had she made of her apprehensions in the
family, that they were all in a fright, and applied
themseves to search from the top of the house to the
bottom, and to see every fire and every candle safe
out, so that, as they all said, it was impossible any
thing could happen in the house, and they sent to.
the neighbours on both sides to do the like. Thus
far they did well, but had she obeyed the hint, which
pressed "upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better, for the fire was actually kindled at
that time, though not broken out. About an hour
after the whole family was in bed, the house just
over the way, directly opposite, was all in a flame, and
the wind, which was very high, blowing the flame
upon the house this gentlewoman lived in, so filled
it with smoke and fire in a few moments, the street
being narrow that they had not air to breathe, or
time to do any thing, but jump out of their beds,
and save their lives; had she obeyed the hint given,
and not gone to bed, she might have saved several
things: but the few moments she had spared to her,.
were but just sufficient to leap out of bed, put some
cloaths on, and get down stairs for the house was
on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks it is
very hard, that we should obey the whispers of evil
spirits, and not much rather receive the notices which
good
good ones are pleased to give. We never perceive the
misfortune of this, but when in real danger; and
then we cry, my mind misgave me, when I was go-
ing about it: But if so, why did you flight the cau-
tion ? Why not listen to it, at to a voice? And then
there had been no reason to make this complaint.
I remember about fourteen or sifteen years ago ( as
to time I cannot be very positive ) there was a young
clergyman in the. city of Dublin in Ireland who
had a very uncommon dream. That a gentleman
had.killed his wife / who was a relation of his) by stab-
bing her in several places. The fright of this soon
awaked him; he then fell afleep a second time, dreamt
the fame dreamand, in short, a third time also.
So troubled was he in his mind, that he arose, and
knocking at his mother's chamber, told his concern,.
and of his apprehensions that all was not right at his
relation's house. Dear son, fays the good old gen-
tlewoman, mind not these foolish dreams: and I very
much wonder that you, being a person in holy or-;
ders, should have regard to such illusions. He went;
to bed again, slept and dreamt as before... And then
indeed he put on his night-gown, and went to Smith-
field, the place where his relation dwelt. Here it was,
alas! he perceived his dream too sadly sulfilled, by see-
ing his relation, the young lady, big wkh child, who
was a Protestant, stabbed in seven places, by her bar-
barous husband, Mr. Eujtace, a rigid Papist, only up-
on some discourses of religion that happened the day
before: After the wretch had stabbed her in three
places, he endeavoured to escape 'Out of a window,
but she cried My dear, don't leave me, come back; and
Jjhall be well again* At which he returned i« a hellish
rage, and gave her four wounds more; when even
in this condition, rising from her bed, fee wrapt herself
in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bishop of
Rafho'% chamber-dpor ( the Bishop lodging at that
time in the house) my Lord, said shc, O , my Lord,
make hajle unto me; but as soon as his Lordship came,
she expired in his arms, resigningher precious foul
into. the hands of Almighty God. T"he cruel wretch
her husband was shot by the pursuers, too good
a death for one who deserved the gibbet: The lady
was universally lamented' by all tender and religious
people. And this tragical relation I have mentioned
upon the account of that impulse, or dream, that the
clergyman had at the fatal time of the. bloody act.
. It might be expected I should enter upon the sub-
ject of apparitions, and discourse concerning the rea^
lity of them ; and whether they can revisit the place of
their former existence, and resume those faculties of
speech and stvape which'tbey had when living !. but
as these are very doubtsulimatters, I shall only make
. a few observations upon them.
I once heard ofa man who would. allow the reality
of apparitions., but laid it all on the devil,. and think_-
ing the souls of men departed did never. appear; yet
to this very man something did' appear, and then he
said, he saw the shape of an antient man pass by him
in the dusk, who holding up his hand in a threaten-
ing posture, cried' out,; O wicked man, repent, repent.
Terrified with this apparition, he conlulted several
friends, who advised him to take the advice. But,
after all, it was not an apparition, but a grave and
pious gentleman, who met him by mere accident,
and had been made sensible of his wickedness ; and
who never undeceived him, lest it should hinder his
reformation. Where . we .always willing to make
good use of Satan's real appearances, I know not
but it would go a great way to banish him from
the visible world; for I am very positive he would
seldom visit, if he thought his comhjg would do us
any good: But so absolutely is he at the com-
. mand
mand of heaven, that he must go, even to do the
work he abhors.
Some people make a very ill use of the general no-
tion, that there are no apparitions, nor spirits at all;
which is worse than those who fancy they fee them upon
every occasion : For those carry their notions farther;
even to annihilate the devil, and believe nothing about
him, neither os one kind or other : the next step
they come to is to conclude There is no God; and
so atheism takes its rife in the fame sink, with
a carelessness about suturity: But there is no occasion
to enter upon an argument, to prove the being of
the Almighty, or to illustrate his power by words,
who has so many undeniable testimonies in the breast
of every rational being to prove his existence: and
we have sussicient proofs enough to cenvince us of the
great superintendency of Divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of the world, the manifest existence
of the invisible world, the. .rfeality of spirits, aiid
intelligence between us and them. What I have
said, I hope will not mislead any person, or be a
means whereby they may delude themselves : For I have
spoken of these things with the utmost seriousness of
mind, and with a sincere and ardent defire for the
general good and benefit of the world. i
FINIS.
j

