 •*'"' **
Hubbard
Imaginary
Voyages
PR
3405
5--CU.
t#v#
!U>:4
W^mi
*"N <
'IN^
***# ' . \
/•IB*
'tf0*****^^
d§pv*< ?%'$<
fo-^v.
I
, K"
V -.
&'*W')
'$ \S**~Jm^'
V- ^Qyv
k •:
'<„ *%£*,
^
^w%?
>% - j.- r
EX-LIBRIS
 "CKAJ^LESTODD 'OWEN*
imag. Moym
•A2-
T11E
 WONDERFUL
'ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF f 08k, MARINER;
A clear Narrative of the Loss of his Ship in a Hurricane,
by which alt \vp Companions ware drowned^ and he alone
pr^sjervcxL being thrown on Shore on a Fail of the Wreck:
,' his miraculous deliverance, at last by "means of Pirates,
[ titter having lived Twenty-eight Years on an uninhabited
Island an the Coast of America.
WtUT'UCX BY HIMSELF*
* *-*•*+• 0*~*-***t* >*
Printed hj Tutjhr^ Lamb's Conduit Passage;
FdSM. Mackmzii^ No. f, |>ean Street* Fetter Lane.
, 'Price Sitpeme*
 Robinson Crusoe reseating
frtdcuy.
OF
IIOBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER ,•
GIVING
A clear Narrative of the Loss of his Ship in a Hurricane,
by which all his Companions were drowned, and he alone
preserved, being thrown on Shore on a Part of the Wreck;
his miraculous deliverance at last by means of Pirates,
after having lived Twenty-eight Years on an uninhabited
Island on the Coast of America.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
^#-<r»v*#s#sr ##
Sotfflon:
Printed by Taylor, 5, Lamb's Conduit Passage.}
For L Mackenzie, No. 7, Dean Street, Fetter Laae. T
Price Sixpence.
LIFE
1 am the son of a merchant, and was born at York in 1632>
and baptized Robinson, after my mother's maiden name.
My father intended me for the law, and endeavoured to
eliucate me suitably, but to no purpose* for I was determined
to/go to sea,
My mother and father were very averse to it, and used a
multitude of arguments to dissuade me, but without effect 5
•my resolutions were fixed, and neither the entreaties of my
father nor mother could make any impression on me.
When I was about nineteen, meeting with one of iny
school-fellows at Hull, who was going with his father (it
master of a ship) to London, I imparted to him my inten-
tion y he promised me a $ree passage, and to provide me
with necessaries suitable to the voyage. And accordingly,
without imploring a blessing of my parents, I took shipping
September 1, 1651*
We had scarcely cleared the I lumber, when we were
overtaken by a violent storm, and I, being extremely sea-sick,
began to reflect upon my lather's advice, and the happiness
of the state of life which he had proposed for me, resolving,
if ever I should set my feet again on dry land, I would beg
my parent's pardon, and bid adieu to roving inclinations.
Such were my sentiments while the storm continued;
but it was no sooner over than my resolutions decreased
with the danger 5 particularly when my companion asked
me if I was not a little frightened by the stormj which he
said was only a cap full of wind. ' Come, my lad,* said he,
'' turn out, and see what fine weather we have now, and a
bowl of good grog will drown all your sorrows.'—The grog
was made, I got very drunk; and all notions of returning
home vanished. I continued hot-headed several days, until
I was alarmed by a fresh accident, that had very near put a
final end to my wandering.
A 2
4 THE EXPLOITS OF
On the sixth day we anchored in Yarmouth Roads, where
we were wind-bound with several other vessels from New-
castle -, but having safe anchorage, a light ship, and good
tables, the sailors despised the danger, and were as merry
as if they had been on shore; but on the 8th day there arose
such a gale as prevented our driving up the river, and it still
increasing, our vessel rode forecastle in, shipping several seas.
A general horror seized the seamen, and the master
cried, < Lord.have mercy upon us, .we shall all be lost!' I
kept to my cabin very sick, till the apprehensions of death
tu-ged me to come upon deck, and there I was most terribly
frightened. The sea ran mountains high, and destruction
seemed inevitable. Two ships had cut their masts by the
board, two had lost their anchors and were forced out,* and
we were obliged to cut away our fore and main mast. While
.we were in this confusion, the master espied some light colliers
and fired a gun. I did not then understand the signal, but
it was a token of distress. They attended to the signal, put
out their long-boat, saved us, and our ship sunk to the bottom.
They landed us at Cromer, near Winterton Lighthouse,
from whence we walked to 'Yarmouth. In three days after
my arrival at this place, I met the young man who invited
me to go on bo^rd with his father. I observed a great altera-
tion in his behaviour; and he told me his father knew who
I was, and that I had taken this voyage only upon trial.
When the captaiu saw me, (Young man ,' said he, f you
ought never to attempt any more; for depend upon it, you
never will be prosperous in seafaring. Pray tell me upon
what motive you first undertook this voyage } 1 told him
the whole. He then exclaimed, 'If you do not return and
submit to your parents, the vengeance of Heaven will attend
you wherever you go.' I had an inclination to return to ,
my father's, but that was soon overcome, by an opinion that
the neighbours would laugh at me. I hurried to London,
being resolved on another voyage: I met with the master of
a vessel going to Guinea, who engaged me. Having some
money, and making a smart appearance, I did not go like a
common sailor, for the captain told me I should be his
messmate, and have liberty to carry with me what mer-
chandise 1 should think fit to trade with. The kindness of
his offer greatly pleased mej and, conceiving I had now an
opportunity of making a fortune, I applied to my friends for
money to equip me for my voyage 5 upon which forty
pounds was remitted me, wirjh which I bought such goods
as, he advised. He taught me the method of keeping a
journal, and other most useful parts of navigation ; and, by
his advice and my own application, in the course of this
voyage, I became both a sailor and a merchant. During
some part of it I was ill, occasioned by the extraordinary
heat of the climate, being almost fifteen degrees north of
the line: however, I recovered and managed my little
stock so well, that I brought over with me fire pounds nine
ounces of gold-dust which sold at London for near 200/.
sterling.
Soon after my return, the captain died. This gave me
great uneasiness'$ yet I resolved to go a voyage with his
mate, Who had got the command of the ship. This' proved
an unsucessful one; I reserved about e£l00, for the voyage,
and left the remainder with the captain's widow, and to sea
we went. But as we were sailing towards the Canary
Islands, wre were chased by a Sallee rover, who m spite of
all the sail we could make, in a short time came up with us,
and we were to fight or be taken. She had eighteen guns,
and we but twelve. About three in the afternoon we en-
gaged, and several were killed on both sides; but at length
being overpowered by numbers, we were compelled to sub-
mit, and were carried into Sallee. The mariners were sent
to be sold ; but the pirate captain, taking a particular liking
to me, kept me for his own skive.
After some time, my patron became so poor, that he
could not fit out his ship; he then employed himself once
or twice a week in going a-fishing, and I and a Morisco boy
rowed him. He was so much taken with my dexterity in
fishing, that he would often send me with his kinsman and
the boy to catch fish for him. As we were one morning at
the sport, there arose so thick a fog, that we missed our
way. After rowing all night, at day-light we found our-
selves at least two leagues in the ocean: we made shift,
however, to get on shore 5 and, to prevent the like mis-
fortune in future, my patron ordered n-state room to be bui.il
in the middle of the long-boat, with.a.steerage behind..
Thus equipped, we often went out a-fishing. On a par-
ticular occasion, he invited some persons of distinction to gv*
with him, and made extraordinary/preparation for their
entertainment: he likewise provided three fusses, with pon-
der and shot, that they might have sport at fowling. Next
morning the company altered their mind,. However, he
ordered us to go and catch some fish. It was at this instant
F resolved to make my escape = and, the better to effect it,.
persuaded the Moor to get provisions on,board, with powder
and shot, to shoot curlews. I provided whatever else I con-
ceived necessary for the expedition.
A3
6 The exploit^ op
Soon after we passed the castle we began to fish. T stood7
further out to sea, and gave the boy the helm, and seizing
Muly by supprise, threw him overboard 5 < Muley;' said I,
"' I never designed you any harm, aud seek nothing but my
own redemption; I know you are able to swim to shore;
but if you offer to follow me, I will shoot you through the
head'. At this the boy was excedingly frightened; but I
assured him, Mi he would turn from Mahomet, and serve
me faithfully, I would be kind to him/ He consented.
We continued our tract on the Barbary coast until dusk,
when I changed my course", steering S. by E. that we
might keep near shore; and, having a favouring gale, the
hext day we were fifty leagues beyond the Morocco domi-
nions, where I anchored in the mouth of a small river, which
I knew not. The necessary I stood in need of was fresh
water. My poor boy entreated me not to go on shore. The
noise of the wild beast shocked us much • and our terrors in-
creased, by observing one of the monsters approaching us,
•but I shot at him.—Next morning, I thought to go on shore
to get fresh water. I kept the boat in sight, less the savages
should comedown in there Canoes, and seize it 3 but my boy
seeing a vale ventured to it. On observing him return with
precipation, I imagined he had either been pursued by the
savages, or some wild beast 5 upon which 1 ran towards him
being determined to protect him; but, as I approached, I
saw a creature hanging at his back resembling a hare* which
proved to be very wholesome food. This was a pleasing
circumstance: and my boy informed me that there was
plenty of good water in the creek which my boat occupied.
Here I recollected that the Canary and Cape de Verd
Islands could not be very distant 5 but I knew not my lati-
tude. I hoped, however, I should meet some English vessel,
which would take us on board. I was doubtless in that un-
inhabited coantry, which lies between the Emperor of Mo*-
roccoTs domiuions and the Negroes. It abounds with wild
beasts, and the Moors resort to it for hunting. From hence
I thought I perceived Mounte Teneriffe, one of the Cana-
ries -, and tried twice to steer the way, but was driven back.
Very early one morning we anchored at a small point, and
the tide beginning to flow, we were preparing to go further
in, but Xury, whose penetrating eyes saw further than mine,
desired me to keep to sea, or we should be devoured ;
{ for, look yonder, master,' said he, ' and see that huge
monster fast asleep, on de side of de hill.' He pointed out
the place, and I perceived a lion, of an enormous size, bask-
ing himself uuder a hill. ' Xury/ said I, ' you shall go
iyxi shoi/> and kill him.' The boy stood amazed r < Me kill
him!' iaid he, <he eat me at one mouth/ meaning one
moutrful. To appease the boy's fears, I shot at him, and
broki one of his legs 5 and then with another shot killed him.
From hence we steered southward 5 and sailing pretty near
shdre, we discovered several-people looking after us: we
nerceived they were blacks, all naked and unarmed, except
one, who had something in his hand like a stick, which
Xury said was a lance, with which they could kill at a great
distance. I was inclined to go on shore, but the boy ex-
claimed} ' No, no.' I drew as near the shore as I could, and
conversed with them by signs, until I made them understand
J wanted something. They made signs to me to stop, whilst
two of them ran up into the country, and in less than half
an hour brought me two pieces of dried flesh and some corn,
which we gladly accepted j and they, to prevent our fears,
laid it down, and went some distance off, till we had taken
it on board, and then came to us again.
While we were returning them our thanks, two uncom-
mon creatures ran from the mountains, eager to engage each
other, and jumped into the sea, where they swam about
wantonly, the water seeming to have abated their fury. One
of them approaching nearer my boat than I thought consistent
with safety, I fired at him, and had the good fortune to kill
him. The consternation of the negroes on hearing the re-
port of my gun, and seeing the beast killed by it, is beyond
the power of expression. Being furnished by the negroes
with the best provisions the country could afford, I took my
leave of them 3 and, in eleven days' sail came in sight of the
Cape do Verd Islands, but could not reach either of them.
Oil this disappointment, I became extremely dejected; when
on a sudden, Xury exclaimed, ' Mastro, mastro, a great
ship with sail!' and soon I discovered a Portuguese vessel.
Observing this I set up my awning and fired a gun as a
signal of distress: on which they very kindly lay-to till I
came up with them. There was a Scotch sailor onboard,
to whom I explained my case; on which they took me into
their ship. My joy was exceeding great for this unexpected
deliverance, especially when I found the captain very kind
and compassionate to me, to whom, in return for his friend-
ship, I offered all 1 had 5 which he generously refused, tel-
ling me, his Christian charity taught him better. I sold him
my boat for eighty pieces of eight.
After twenty-two days' sail, we arrived in the bay of All
Saints. Upon hjs recommendation, I engaged with a planter,
in whose service I continued till I had acquired a sufficient
knowledge of -sugar-planting. I soon purchased a pWrtation,
and, by industry, made very considerable improvements,
j*.nd began to thrive. I was in some degree settled before
. the captain left the Brazils, One day I told him whatcash
I had left in London, and desired his assistance in getting, a
remittance 5 to which he readily consented.
Wealth now began to flow in upon me, and I might have
lived very happily, if ambition and roving inclinations \'a<\
Dot got an ascendancy over me. 1 had lived some years fo
the Brazils, and had not only learnt the language, but con-
tracted an acquaintance with several of the most eminent
merchants at St. Salvadore, to whom reciting the circum-
stances of my two voyages to Guinea, and the immense
profits made from trading in those parts, they so much ap-
proved my notions of that business, that three of them ma-
nifested a desire of going thither : and, in order to induce
me to undertake the management of their business, declared,
if I would go as their supercargo, I should share equally with
them in the profits. I consented to this proposal on condi-
tion they would manage my plantation in my absence. A
ship being properly fitted out, 1 sailed September 1, 1659,
steering northward, in order to make the coast of Africa.
In a few days we met with a violent storm, which held
twelve days. When the weather became clear, we found
ourselves in eleven degrees north latitude on the coast of
Guinea. The captain advised returning. This I opposed,
judging it more prudent to stand away for Barbadoes, where
I concluded we might arrive in fifteen days. My opinion
prevailed, and, changing our course, we steered westward,
In hopes of reaching the Leward Islands; which we did,
and were overtaken by another terrible tempest. In this
distress, one of our men cried out, c Laud! land!' That very
moment our ship struck upon a sand, and we expected we
should be immediately lost—In full expectation of death,
we applied to the last resort in such extremities, and
bawling out the long boat, eleven of us got on board of her,
and submitted ourselves to the fury of the storm, and the
divine mercy. This effort proved ineffectual, for the
tempest was so violent that the boat could not live. After
we had been about two leagues, a wave a-stern overset the
I oat.
During the time I was struggling in the water, my mind
laboured under the most excruciating distraction: still, how-
ever, 1 continued struggling (during which time all my
companions were lost) till the wave abated its force, and, in
retiring, had thrown me on shore. I got on my feet, lest
another wave should carry me hack; and though/ made
the utmost expedition I was able, another came; which
threw me with such force against a rock as made me sense*
less, fortunately 1 recovered before the approach of the
succeeding wave abated, by keeping fast hold of the rock,
which enabled me to get on shore, though in a very weak
and miserable condition. The next day, it being calm wea-
ther, necessity impelled me to risque all hazards to get on
board the ship, in hopes of procuring necessaries. I therefore
swain round her 5 and fortunately discovering a rope within
my reach, I with some difficulty got into the forecastle.
The ship was bulged, but her quarter was dry, and, thanks
to heaven! all the provisions were in good condition, and
nothing wanted but a boat to convey them on shore.
It is commonly said, necessity is the mother of invention
I now experienced the truth of the adage ; for a project
arose in my mind, which under happier circumstances jl is
probable I might never have thought of. Tbere were on
board spare yards, masts, &c. I threw several of these over-
board, lashing them together that they miglit not be driven
.away. I then laid three or four short plants on them cross^
ways, and fastened others together in the form of a raft; to
strengthen which I cut a top mast in several lengths, and
braced the whole tight, which rendered it equal in weight!'
Haying thus contrived a very useful ;mode of conveyance,
my mind was next employed in making the most judicious
choice out of what I should find on board to load with, in
regard to my present necessities and future security. After
some deliberation I proceeded in t]ne following manner:—
All the boards 1 could find I laid/on the raft in the best
manner I was able 5 then lowered down three chests, and
filled them with provisions. I was chiefly solicitous to pro-
cure working tools, fire-arms, powder, and bullets 3 and
upon search very luckily obtained the carpenter's chest, and
in looking into the cabin, I discovered several muskets, and
a quantity of ammunition. I laid them on board the raft
with joy, and again ventured to sea.
I had not proceeded afaove a mile before my raft run
aground. It was with t^e utmost difficulty I* kept my
cargo together. Indeed* if I W not been extremely vigi-
lant, the whole would fynve been lost. Bnt, atthe rising of
the water, she floated, again, and I landed my *flfects very
safely. Near the pl^ce where I landed, which was at ^e
mouth of a little caye, I discovered a very high mountain,
.surrounded with several hills, I judged this would be a
very proper eminence from Whence to take a survey of the
country. Accordingly, arming myself, 1 ascended the
mountain, and discovered that I was in an island surrounded
by the sea. It appeared uncultivated, and only inhabited
by wild beasts.
I returned to the raft, and landed my goods. Dreading
the wild beasts, I erected a kind of barricado, by w*ay of
security. That night I slept very well: and next morning
resolved to go to the ship, and get such necessaries as I
most wanted. I prepared for the second voyage, by repair-
ing the raft; which enabled me to get frorn on board the
ship a further stock of tools, clothes, amrauuition, &c.
Having landed my second cargo, I immediately made a
little tent, and fortified it securely against any attempt from
man or beast; and then charging my fire-arms I laid down,
and slept as comfortably as ever I had done at home.
Eleven days had elapsed since I had been on this island,
and as many times had I visited the ship. As I was making
a twelfth attempt, the wind increased. However, I ven-
tured at low water, and, with difficulty, reached the ship.
On rummaging the cabins, I found several necessaries, to-
gether with upwards of sg36 in pieces of eight, which in
my present situation was of no value. However, I took
them, and perceiving the storm beginning to increase, I
hastened to shore. I rested well that night in my little forti-
fication, but perceived in the morning that the ship was lost.
Dreading there imght be savages, and knowing there
were wild beasts in this island, I was under great anxiety,
and continually revolving in my mind various methods of
insuring safety. Sometimes I thought it most prudent to dig
a cave ; at others, that it would be most eligible to erect a
tent; the result was, I resolved to do both. My pre-
sent situation being inconvenient, I sought for a better, and
soon found one. It was a small plain near a rising hill, the
front steep. On one side the hill was a hollow place, re-
sembling the entrance of a cave. Before this place I deter-
mined to place my tent. The place was about a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, with an easy descent
each way to the sea-side. After this I drew a semi-circle,
about ten yards in diameter, and then drove a row of stakes
within six" inches of each other; and, by the help of my
cables, &(><* ^ner materials I had brought from the ship, I
att*>»ipted a sort of regular fortification', which was impreg-
nable against any sudden attempts either of savages or wild
beasts. For better security, I had no doors, but got in and
out by a ladder, which I made for thepurpose, Here, I
deposited my stores, and continued to work. I made a
cellar, and further strengthened my fortification by the
earth and stones I dug out of the rock. Considering my-
self now as the king of the island, I every day took out my gua
and killed whatever appeared to me to be eatable. The
island produced a great number of goats. I shot one as she
was suckling her young. Her kid followed me to the for-
tification 5 I lifted her over the pales, and endeavoured to
preserve her ; but that proving impossible, as she refused
her food, I killed her for my own eating.
According to my own account, it was the 30th of Sep-
tember when I landed on this island, About twelve days
after, fearing I might lose my reckoning, or forget the
Sabbath, being in want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved on
a post, in large letters, which I set up in the form of a cross
on the identical spot where I landed, f I came on shore
September 30, 1650.' On each succeeding day I cut a
notch x>n this post, and that for Sundays twice the length
of the others, and the notch for the first day of the month
twice as long as the notch for Sundays. Thus I kept my
account of time. This labour, however, I afterwards found
was unnecessary • when, upon rummaging the effects belong-
ing to the carpenter, gunner, and mate, I found myself
supplied not only with a regular book, pens and ink, com-
passes, and other mathematical instruments, but also with
a Bible, and several other English books, which I preserved
with the utmost care; there was also a dog and two cats
on board the ship, which I made joint tenants with me m
my fortification. A whole year elapsed before I had com-
pleted my habitation. When the business was finished,
my fears in consequence greatly abated, solitude became less
disagreeable, and I bent my thoughts to the contrivance of
means for rendering my desolate situation agreeable at least;
and to attain this I compiled the following journal:
Sept. 30, HJ50.—Forced by shipwreck on this island:
next day spent in reflecting on my hopeless condition, which
afforded no prospect but the worst of deaths, or being devour*
ed by wild beasts.
Oct 1 —Discovered the ship driven on shore; and, wkem
the storm abated, I immediately waded over the sands, and
got on board. To the 14 th of this instant was spent in mak-
wg voyages to and from the ship.
Oct. 20.—My raft ran aground, and my goods were in
great danger; but I saved most of them.
Oct. 25.---Blew a storm and rained hard. The ehip was
dashed in pieces.
Oct. 26—Wandering about to discover a'place to fix mi)
abode. Towards evening found a rock where I judged I
wtght erect a wall and fortification.
Nov. 1—Placed my tent by the side of a rock.
Nov. 3—Shot two ivild fowly which proved good'meat: hi
the afternoon began to make myself a table.
Nov. 4—Began to live regularly: in the morning walked;
afterwards worked till about tiuo ; after dinner slept an hour
or two, the weather being very sultry.
\ Nov. 5—Went out ivith my gun and dog. Sato a great
flock of wild birds, and ivas terrified at the sight of some
enormous seals ivhich I beheld on the sand. Upon seeing me
\they retired to the sea.
Nov. 9—Finished my table. From the 7th to the \2th
(weather fair) worked hard. I rested upon the Wth, ivhich
Recording to my computation, teas Sunday.
Nov. 13—Stormy and hot weather, with thunder and light-
ning.—14. Made provision to secure my powder, ivhich I
perfected on the 15M.—\7th. Began to dig upon the rock,
but teas prevented for ivant of proper implements.—18///.
Found a tree, the zvood of ivhich was very hard; and of
that, lOith the utmost difficulty, made me a kind of spade ; in
doing ivhich I almost spoiled my axe, ivhich, in my situation,
fnight have been attended with very fatal consequences
Nov. 23—Spent my time from this to the \0th of Decem-
ber in finishing my cave.
Dec. 10—Had no sooner finished my habitation, but part
of the roof fell in. It was a mercy I did not perish in the
ruins.
Dec. 27—In my ivalks met some goats; shot one and
lamed another. In a short time it got well, and ivas so tame
that it followed me like a dog, which Induced me to try to
tame these wild animals, in hopes of procuring a stock to live
vpon when my powder should be all expended.
Dec. 28 to 30.—Sultry weather ; obliged to keep in.
Jan. 1.—Though sultry weather, necessity compelled me'
to go out with my gun. Found goats in the vallies. They
were too shy, could kill none of them,
Jan. 8 to 13*—Found great numbers of foivl resembling
English pigeons. I shot some of them, which proved very ex-
cellent food. As I ivas rummaging among my moveablest
a bag came to hand, ivhich had probably been made use of t6
hold corn for the fowls in the ship. I proposed to use it to
hold powder, and shook out of it the dust and loose corn upon
one side tifthe rodk. Sortie days befote it rained very hard.
The month following, to my great surprise, I discovered
something spring up very green. I went daily to view it,
and saiv several ears of green barley, of the very same size
and shape ivith that of England. Amazed at this unex-
pected crop, J thought Providence had provided pur-
posely fcr my subsistence. Mine eyes soon afterwards ob-
served some rice stalks eMrem,ely flourishing; from this, /
concluded there was more corn on the island. After several
days fruitless search, I recollected shaking the bag on the
very spot ivhere those blades toere growing. June teas nearly
expired before these cars greiu ripe, when I laid them tip
carefully, hoping that I should one day reap the advantage.
April 26.—Finished my ladder. I began noio to flatter
myself that I ivas pretty well secured But alas! in what
can mortals place security ? As I ivas one day sitting in my
cave, there happened a sudden earthquake, and the roof of
my little fortress came tumbling on my head. I ran to my
ladder, and got out just time enough to see the top of a huge
rock fall into the sea. Horror seized me, which ivas still in-
creased by the evident approach of a violent tempest This
lasted three hours, and ivas succeeded by a rain that deluged
my habitation. Concluding I had chosen a bad situation, I
resolved to search for a better.
April 29, 30.—Spent in choosing my new abode.
May 1—fVallnng by the shore, I found a barrel of gun*
powder, and divers pieces of the ship, ivhich the violence of'the
late storm had thrown on the sand.
June I.—Strolling by the sea, J found a large turtle.—17 tk.
Spent in cooking it  found in her seventeen eggs, and the flesh
the most delicious meat that ever I tasted.—\Sth. / staid
within, being continual rain, with wind and lightning.
From the \9th to the 27th, very bad ivith an ague; the
fit frequently continued eight or ten hours.
y June 18.—Began to recover; but my nights were restleh,
dreaming continually of ghosts andspectres.
June 28.—Slept ivell, which much refreshed me.
June 30.—Ventured out; killed a fowl resembling a brand
goose. In the evening repea'ed my medicine.
July 4.—JVallied out with my gun, and being recovered, re-
solved to make a tour through my dominions.
July 15 .—Entered on my progress. Found a little running
brook, behind which were fertile meadows; in which I disco-
vered tobacco, sugar-canes, and aloes, ivith several other
plants. Proceeding further up the country next day, found
it abounded with trees, with a great quantity of melons and
grapes. At the approach of night, I placed myself securely
in a tree, and for the first time ventured to sleep out of my
habitation. Neat morning, I proceeded a few miles further ;
and finding plenty of fine fruit, resolved to provide myself with
a large stock. I soon provided a sufficient quantity of grapes,
and various sorts of fruit.
July 18—I returned again. Thb place was so pleasant,
that I made a bower, or country house, which took up the re-
mainder of the month. Here £ dried my grapes, which I took
home for a winter stock.
Aug. 14.—rThe rain set in ivith great violence till the
middle of October. I could only go out twice; the first time
1 shot a goat, the next day found a large turtle.
Sept. 30.—Counting the notches on my post, they amountad
to three hundred and sixty-five: this I concluded to be the
anniversary of my landing. I relumed God thanks for my mi-
raculous preservation; went to my bed, and slept soundly.
Judging the season to be proper, I sowed about thirty stalks
of barley, and twenty of rice, which I had saved. Indue
season, the crop answered my most sanguine wishes.
On the return of fair iceather, I went to my bower, which J
found unbijurcd. I renewed my resolution of surveying my
whole kingdom ; and, taking my dog, gun, and other necessa-
ries, proceeded on my journey.
Having passed the vale where my bower s'.ood, I came
'within sight of the sea, lying to the west. From hence I dis-
covered land, which J supposed to be that which lies between
Spanish America and the Brazils, remarkable for being inha-
bitcd by cannibals.
The part of the island I ivas noio in abounded with parrots,
one of which I took home-, but it ivas long before I could tame
it, or teach it to speak. There to ere numbers of '< hares and
foxes, and plenty of grapes, and other fruits. I travelled
about ten miles a day, being more intent on making discoveries
than expedition.
Having made several observations, and fearing a return of
the wet weather, I resolved to retreat homewards : in my re-
turn, my dog turned cut a kid, ivhirh I took to my bower, in
hope of raising a breed. I arrived at my castle in about a
month from my setting out, when I resolved to allow myself a
'week for refreshment. . On going to the bower for my kid, I
found it in a starving condition. The poor animal seemed,
grateful, and folloived me to my castle, where I kept it.
September 30.—The anniversary of my third year, and re-
turn of the wet season. I kept toithin, and offered up my most
grateful thanks to the Almighty for my preservation.
&u viewing the land 1 bad sown., I was comforted by the
prospect of a plentiful crop. Some land, which laid behind
my castle, appeared to me proper for the purpose of tilling.
I hedged it in, .therefore, to secure it from vermin; and
taking such other methods for the improvement of it as my
circumstances admitted, was rewarded by an ample increase ;
which not only enabled me to make my bread, but, from
the prospect of its continuance, encouraged me to eat it
without dread of future want. .
My fourth anniversary returned, which I celebrated with
imy former solemnity and devotion : and, being now rendered
something easy in my circumstances, my mind ever active
began to form new projects. I now began to experience
very sensibly some of the misfortunes attendant on a deso-
late situation. My biscuit was nearly exhausted, my clothes
and linen worn out, excepting shirts, and my paper quite
gone. I supplied my want of clothes, in some measure, by
the help of goat skins. Of these I made myself a cap, a
waistcoat, and a pair of open-knee breeches, with the
hair on the outside. Five years were elapsed, in which I
effected nothing worth relating, except the making a canoo
with a view to discover the circumference of my island;
and in the tenth year of my reign, Nov. 16, my voyage
commenced, which I was eager to pursue, but had made
little progress before I found reason to repent, for a current
drove me so far out to sea, that I despaired of ever returning.
By a fortunate change of the wind, however, I was driven
back to my old island, where I waded to shore, and, being
greatly fatigued, laid me down to rest.
Having taken a comfortable nap, I laid up my boat in a
creek, and taking my gun, &c. retired to my bower, and en-
deavoured again to take repose: but was quickly surprized
by a voice exclaiming, ' Poor Robin Crusoe! where have
you been, Poor Robin Crusoe?' Gazing round in my con-
fusion,, I saw my parrot sitting in the hedge, and was con-
vinced it was she that had called me. On calling her, she
perched on my finger, seemingly rejoiced at my return.
Ruminating on the advantages I should reap if I could
by any means take goats alive, and bring them to domestic
tameness, the idea occurred of making pitfalls, and baiting
them with corn. This scheme succeeded $ for on making
the experiment, I caught an old he-goat, and one male and
two female kids. The old one escaped by superior strength ;
but I conveyed the young ones home. I then enclosed a
small piece of ground, and treating them with gentleness they
soon became very tame. In less than two years, my stock
increased to fortv-three, by which means I obtained a good
B2
-supply both of meat and milk \ which made my life so happy>
that I seldom longed for liberty.
One day, while I was making an observation, I discovered
a boat at & great distance, but could not discern what she
was. After some time she came on shore, on the south-west:,
when I soon discovered they were savages. After they de-
parted, I examined (he place of their landing: it was co-
vered with the mangled scraps of human bodies) there was
also a circle made, in the centre of which there had been a
lire, about which it was probable they had either sacrificed,
or eaten the victims who had fallen in their way.
As I was cutting wood one day to make charcoal, I ob-
served a large cavity, and on my nearer approach, perceived
two large eyes staring, as I thought, at me. Much sur-
prised, I ran back; but, on recovering myself resolved to
unriddle the mystery. I therefore returned, and found what
my fears had so much magnified, was nothing more than a
poor old goat in the agonies of death. Being now easy in
my mind, curiosity inclined me to make observation of the
place; and next day I returned, with six large candles of my
own making. After 1 had squeezed through the narrow
entrance, I was clear of all difficulty, the roof being more
elevated-j and approaching further, found myself in a most
beautiful grotto. The walls and roof, bespangled with na-
tural crystals, reflected millions of lights from my candles*
charming to behold. But what pleased me most was, the
difficulty of "access, which made me conclude it would be
an excellent hold against any surprise from the savages. I
therefore brought hither, with the utmost expedition, a
quantity of arms and ammunition. I began now, about my
twenty-third year, to experience some degree of happiness;
it was alloyed, indeed, by the death of my dog. In the
month of December, as I was walking out early one morn-
ing, 1 observed, about two miles from the shore, near the part
where I had seen the savages, a great light. Horribly afraid
lest they should discover me and destroy me, I hastened to
my castle, and put myself in a posture of defence. Ascend-
ing, soon after,.the top of the rock. I discerned, through my
glass, nine of them naked round a fire, feasting, as I conjec-
tured, on human flesh. On viewing the place after they
were gone, the sight of human limbs, mangled and torn,
raised my indignation to such a pitch, that 1 determined, at
the peril of my life, to rescue one of the savages from these
devouring cannibals; and flattered myself that by so doing,
I should win his affection, and incline him to be useful to me.
It was a full year and a half before an opportunity offered ;
when, early in the morning of the 23d of April, I discovered
five canoes on >hore on my side of the island, the crews of
which w?ie landed and cone aled, but I coi.ld not tell where.
The sight of so many boats excited my utmost dread, from
the consideration of the number they might have brought 3
and, arming myself, I went to the top of my prosped-hill,
from whence I observed about thirty of them, some feasting,
some dancing round a fire with the most hideous contortions,
and othvjs dragging two unhappy men on shore, one of whom
they knocked down, and, after mangling miserably, devour-
ed. The other stood seemingly in the utmost horror, ex-
pecting the same fate. On a sudden, however, he ran,
made towards a small creek, and took to swimming. Two
of th > cannibals swam,after him ; and the fugitive, as soon
as he got Outof the water, ran towards my grove.
I resolved to make the best use of this opportunity, and,
snatching my gun, ran a shorter way, and put myself be-
tween the pursuers, and their prey. The poor creature I
intended to save was astonished at my appearance, but, upon
my beckoning, he stopped. The first of his pursuers I
knocked down with the bnt-end of my piece, and, perceiving
the other taking aim at me with his arrow, I let fly, and
killed him. The flash and report of ray gun struck the
astonished Indian with horror. I made signs to him to come
to me, which he obeyed through fear 5 throwing himself at .
my feet, and putting one of my feet upon his head, which
is their sign of submission, and acknowledgment of perpetual
slavery. Upon which I gave him, by tokens, every en-
couragement. The cannibal I had knocked down, being
something recovered, sat upright, which greatly terrified my
poor slave ; but I appeased his fears, by presenting my mus-
ket at the devourer. The Indian, however, made signs not
to fire, but to lend him my sword, which I accordingly did;
when he ran eager to his enemy; and, with one dexterous
blow, severed his head from his body, and laid it in triumph
at my feet. My new servant was greatly astonished that 1
could kill at a distance without a bow, and expressed strong
desire, by signs, to examine the body. I then took him to
my cave, and, after he had eaten, I permitted him to lie
down on some straw, and repose himself. 1 was now at
leisure to view him, and thought him one of the handsomest
Indians I had ever beheld. In about an hour after, as I was 4
attending my goats, became and prostrated himself, putting
my other foot on his head, in confirmation of his subjection! l
Next morning I took him out with me, and made him
understand that I should name him Friday, in honour of tl e
B3
day I effected his deliverance. Finding, by an observation
from the top of a hill, that the barbarians were departed, we
reposed ourselves that night in the castle 5 and the next
morning, having armed myself, I took my man with me, and
went to view the scene of their cruelties. It was rendered
very horrible by the bodies which were lying upon it.
On returning to my castle, I made the best shift I could
to clothe my man, who did not seem much to thank me, hav-
ing never been used to the confinement of dress; but in a
few days they sat easy, aud he appeared very well pleased,
Ivty next endeavour was to contrive a lodging that might be
comfortable to him, without risking my own safety. I built
him a small tent between the two fortifications, and secured
myself every night, so as effectually to prevent a surprise 5 a
caution which was unnecessary, as I found him on trial a
very faithful and affectionate servant. I had now two mouths
to feed, and found it necessary to give my new servant some
employment: this the poor fellow seemed conscious of, and
performed his business with diligence.
Friday, by my instructions, had now acquired English
enough to be very conversable. I entertained him with a
relation of my exploits, and alleviated his terrors by explain-
ing the nature and properties of gunpowder, and teaching
him to shoot. He appeared very proud of a knife I had
, given him, so I made him a present of a hatchet, which
he hung to his belt, and placed his habiliments in such a
manner, that he made a very romantic appearance. I then
took him to the place, and showed him the wreck of my
boat. He viewed it very attentively for some,time, and then
said, f O master! me see such a boat come to my nation."
Conjecturing that poor Friday alluded to some European
boat, which had been driven thither by distress, I inquired
as to its make, and what it contained. He replied eagerly,
< O master! me save white mans from drown, Yes, yes,
boat full white mans.' I inquired their number. He count-
ed on his fingers seventeen. I asked if they escaped alive.
To which he replied, ' Yes, master, all alive, live among
my countrymen.' I asked him how it happened they did
not eat them. His answer was, c No, up, my nation, t'other
nations j no eat mans, they make brother with them j but if
mans make war they fight.' He then intimated, that his
own, and an adjoining nation, did not eat men, except such
as they took in acts of hostility, whom they deemed lawful
prizes in right of conquest. Judging that crossing to the
continent, and treating with the white men Friday had
alluded to, might be a meaus of facilitating my return,, I
applied assiduously to the building of a canoe, which, by the
active assistance of my man, was launched in six weeks ;
and at the end of three months we had fitted her with mast
and sail 5 so that the only difficulty was how to instruct my
companion to be useful in navigating her.
I now repeated the anniversary of my landing for the 27th
year with greater solemnity than usual, excited thereto by
sincere gratitude for the long continuance of divine preserva-
tion.—Prudence required the continuing of my course of hus-
bandry, notwithstanding I had formed hopes^of speedy de-
parture. Having secured my corn, and the rainy season set-
ting in, we retired to our dwelling, determined, about De-
cember, to attempt a voyage to the continent. The rains
being somewhat abated, 1 dispatched Friday one morning to
the shore in search of a turtle. He returned speedily, and
in the utmost fright exclaimed, 'O, master, master, bad
news, four canoes upon coast, come to look for poor Friday >
kill you as well as me. Me fight, me obey orders, me lose
last drop of blood for you.' There was now no time to be
lost. We loaded our arms, and put ourselves in the best
posture of defence. I then mounted a hill, to make a dis-
covery, and perceived there were nineteen savages, and
three prisoners, who, from the manner in which they were
freated, seemed destined to be devoured. Amongst the pri-
soners was a white man: this increased my detestation, and
urged me to attempt his rescue, which I determined to effect,
or perish in the attempt. Having instructed my man to fol-
low my example, we approached them unobserved, and took
aim so well, that we killed four, and wounded two or three
more,.—The savages were struck with amazement at this un-
expected salute. We took the advantage of their consterna-
tion, and poured in a second volley with such effect, that we
killed two more and wounded several. They became frantic,
and ran about making violent contortions and yellings. I
ordered Friday to take the loaded musket, and follow me; >
and, while the panic was strong upon their minds, we show-
ed ourselves boldly, and rushed impetuously in upon them,
making a great shout. They fled with the utmost precipi-
tation. We immediately unbound the victim. I inquired,
in Portuguese, who he was I He replied, in Latin, that he
was a Spanish Christian, thanked me in the strongest man-
ner for his release, and was going to recite his misfortunes;
but I judged it better to defer it, and said, f We will talk
when more at leisure; the present time must be employed
in fighting.'—After having refreshed him, 1 furnished him
with a sword and pistol, and bid him do his best. He
manifested great courage/ We pursued the barbarians so vi-
gorously, that out of twenty-two, not above four got into their
canoes 5 anil those I determined to destroy if possible. Ac-
cordingly, I leaped into one of them, and commanded Friday
to follow. My eyes were immediately shocked with the,
>%ht.'of--another devoted object. I unbound him* and help-
ed him up, but he could not stand or speak. I ordered
Friday to speak to him in his own language, and assure him
of our friendship. He did so. And now, reader, judge, if
you can, with wlr;t emotions the soul of poor Friday must
have been agitated, when he discovered thai the object of
his care was his own father.—With some difficulty we got
both these unfortunate men to my castle, where I contrived
a tent for their reception; and, as they were very weak, my
man was immediately employed in killing a kid to make-
idem broth. After dinner I sent him to bring home the arms
we had left behind, lest they should fall into the hands of
my other enemies.
I now renewed my intention of taking a voyage to the
continent. Friday's father assured me I should meet with
good treatment from the natives: and the Spaniard offered
to go over with him before hand, to settle matters for my
reception; and both agreed to take an oath of fidelity to me.
—I therefore dispatched my two ambassadors, after having
furnished them with provisions and ammunition.
About a fortnight after their departure, as i was one morn-
ing ruminating with great anxiety, Friday ran hastily to me,
and exclaimed eagerly, 'They are come ! they are come!',
I instantly rose, and perceived, at about a league and a half,
a boat standing in for shore. By the help of my glass, 1
soon discovered they were not my ambassadors, but conjec-
tured they belonged to a ship anchored at some distance, •
which appeared to be English built. It was not long before
the boat arrived, and four men leaped on shore, bringing two
with them, who appeared by their gestures to be prisoners,
and to be entreating passionately for preservation. Friday
observing it, cried out, ' O master, you see English mans
eat prisoners as well as savage mans.' I soon pacified the
poor fellows mind as to that point, but could not easily
quiet my own; for there was an appearance of barbarity
which 1 could not at that instant account for: prudence for-
bade my approaching nearer.
While 1 was lamenting my want of power to assist the un-
happy men, my mind was relieved by discovering that they
spared their lives, and contented themselves with leaving them
to wander in the island, whilst they themselves rambled about,
seemingly with a view to make observations. Considering
that I had desperadoes to deal with, it appeared most pru-
dent to defer making any attempt till night, when I should
be favoured by the darkness, and they would be weakened
by the fatigues of a sultry day, and want of rest. Waiting,
therefore, till I judged the sailors were taking their repose,
I approached the two unhappy men, who were sitting dis-
consolately under a tree. Asking them in Spanish what they
were, they startled $ and, surprised at my extraordinary
dress, endeavoured to shun me: but, on my addressing them
in English 5 ' Don't be afraid, you have a frieud nearer you
than you imagine 5 acquaint me with your distress, and I
will endeavour to serve you; one of them replied, c Sir,
my story would be too long : to be brief, I was master of
the ship which lies yonder at anchor : my men mutinied ;
and we think it a favour that they spared our lives, and put
that passenger and myself on shore, though we may, perhaps,
perish here for want of necessaries/ I asked them, if they
had any fire-arms. ' Only two fusees 3' said the master,
' and as one of them is left in the boat, if the two villains
who are left with it could be secured, we are well assured
the rest would return to their duty,'—For their greater safety
I took them further in the wood 3 and we resolved on an
immediate attack. The two men fired, and fortunately
killed the ring-leader, and wounded another; the rest cried
for quarters, whieh was granted, on swearing obedience to
the master that they would exert their endeavours to reco-
ver the ship. With this they complied.
As, however, little faith could be reposed in men who had
already betrayed their trust, I advised the captain to keep
them bound till we could recover the ship, which, having at
length effected, nothing remained for further consideration
but how to dispose of our prisoners. After mature delibe-
ration, we resolved to leave, them in possession of the island,
and that I should return with the captain to England. The
captain was grateful, and considered me as his deliverer.
Taking, therefore, poor Friday, my money, my parrot, &c.
on board, we set sail Dec 12, 1686, and landed in England
the 1 lth of June the year following to my great happiness,
having been absent thirty-five years.
When I had refreshed myself, I began to consider the state
of my affairs, and to make the proper inquiries. I found the
widow of my first captain living, but very poor. I travelled
soon after into Yorkshire, where I learned that my family
in general were dead, or so dispersed, that it was in vain to ,
seek them, and that no provision had been made for me.
On meeting with these disappointments at home, I re-
solved to embark with my man Friday, for Lisbon, in quest
of the Portuguese captain, who took me on board on the
coast of Africa, in order to inquire after my plantation at'
the Brazils. I had the good fortune to find him, and to learn
that it had been so well managed, that I was worth a£40,000
sterling !—Being now possessed of fortune, I resolved to re-
turn to my native country. By the advice of the captain, I
pursued my route by land. This measure had like to have
been attended with fatal consequences to me and those who
travelled with me:—A deep snow happening to fall, the
wolves and bears qu tted the woods, and attacked us many
times, though we were more than twenty in number 3 but
happily we kept them off. Nothing further remarkable hap-
pened. After a short stay at Paris, we embarked at Calais,
and landed at Dover on January 14th, where we put up at
an inn for the night, and set off the next morning for the city
of York, where I purchased an estate, and soon after mar-
ried an agreeable young woman, who, although she had uo-
thing but virtue to recommend her, proved to me a,n exhaust-
less mine, owing to the prudent manner in which she ma-
naged my affairs. I had by her two sons and one daughter,
the latter of whom unconsciously proved the death of her
mother, who died in bringing her into the world. The loss
of so estimable a partner, hung heavy on my mind, and a
settled melancholy was depicted on my brow. Disgusted
with the world, my old spirit of rambling returned ; and,
after settling my estate, 1 setoff for London : where, reading
in a newspaper that the Lovely Nan, Capt. Crusoe, was on
the point of sailing for the Coast of Guinea, I resolved to
find out the captain, and agree with him for my passage
thither j but it is impossible to describe my astonishment,
when, on finding the captain at his lodgings near Blackwall,
and entering into conversation with him, I found him the
only son of my brother. As soon as our first emotions" of
joy at this unexpected meeting were subsided, he informed
me he had heard his father say, that on leaving the Univer-
sity, he had fallen into the hands of some kidnappers, who
forced him on board a slave ship5 the captain of which sold
him, together with several others, to the Algerines 5 and a
rich lady falling in love with him, soon after his captivity,
they made their escape together to Jamaica, where they were
married, and led a comfortable life for some years; ' but a .
contagious disorder, which raged in the island,' continued
my nephew,.' unhappily carried off my father and mother
at the same time, just as I had attained my 26th year.
Finding myself deprived of the only solace that could now
render the island dear to me, I resolved to quit it, and ac-
cordingly purchased the ship of which I am now captain, in
which I have only yet taken two voyages, one to Bilboa, and
the other to Lisbon.*
My nephew having here ended his short narrative, we
settled every thing relating to my next expedition ; in con-
sequence of which, he immediately gave orders for a framed
sloop to be made, and carried on board his ship; observing,
that in case I chose to stop any time at my island, the sloop
could be left on shore, and put together whenever I thought
proper. These points being settled, and every thing got
ready for our departure, I made my will 5 and, leaving the
greater part of my fortune in the hands of a worthy gentle-
woman, who was a friend of my late wife, I also appointed
her guardian over my children. *
Matters being arranged, I went on board with my nephew,
accompanied by faithful Friday 5 and, taking also with me
several artificers, and a good cargo for the better stocking of
my island/ wc set sail on the 7th of January, 1699, with a
favouring gale. On the 20th, in the evening, the man at
the helm called out that he saw the flash and heard the re-
port of, a gun 1 upon which we all assembled on the quarter
deck, and looking a-head, beheld a terrible light at no great
distance from us; and as we knew, bv our reckoning that
we were a considerable distance from land, we therefore
concluded it must be some ship on fire. We made to-
wards the light with all possible sail. At day-break, two
boats came along side of us, full of men, women and chil-
dren ; from whom, on coming on board of us, we learnt,
that the vessel which we had seen on fire and blew up, and
to which they belonged, was a French ship of 300 tons bur-
den, from Cauida 5 and that she had caught fire through the
carelessness of the steersman. However, to prevent a too
great consumption in our provisious, we landed them shortly "
alter at Newfoundland, where they hired a bark to carry
them all to France, except a young priest and three sailors,
who chose rather to go with us.
We now directed our course S. S. E. when, on the 14th of
March, in lat. 27, we saw a sail bearing towards us, which
had lost all her masts, and fired a gun, as a signal of distress.
The wind being northerly, we soon came'up with her, when
we were informed that she was called the Lively, of Bristol,
homeward-bound from Barbadoes ; and that having been
driven ont of their course by a violent storm, which lasted
-several days, they were almost starved for want of provi-
sions j upon which my nephew and myself went on board the
liively, wliere we found three passengers, viz. a young gen-
tleman, his mother, and a maid servant, in one of the cabins,
nearly starved 5 indeed the mother, who had forced the son
to eat the last morsel of bread they had in their possession,
-died soon after our coming on board! With much difficulty
we restored the young gentleman and maid, who, at their
particular request, we took on board our ship 5 we also gave
the distressed crew what provisions we could spare, and pur-
sued our voyage. Getting at length in lat. 19, with much
difficulty we gained thev south side of my islaud, and cast
anchor in the creek which lay to the north of my fortifi-
cation.
As soon as this was done, I called Friday, and asked him
if he knew where he was ? He looked round, and instantly
recognizing the well-known spot, fell to clapping his hands,
and, in a joyous accent, exclaimed, ( 0 yes, O dere! me
see, me see !* and continued to sing and dance about like a
madman. I ordered the long-boat to be lowered, and a
white flag hoisted; upon which the young priest, Friday,
aud myself, together with sixteen men, well armed, got
into the boat, and rowed on shore ; and on the 10th April
I once more set foot on my American island. The first ob-
ject that met my sight on landing was the Spaniard, whom I
had sent over to Friday's nation. He no sooner saw me,
than he uttered a cry of joy 3 and rushed into my arms. At
this moment Friday discovered his father, at a little distance
from my hut, and darting forward with the swiftness of am
arrow, lie rushed on his father, whom he tenderly embraced:
but the most laughable part of his behaviour was on the en-
suing morning, when he took his father along the shore for
a walk, holding him by the hand as one child would another,
and every now and then putting into his mouth a lump of
sugar, a drain, a biscuit, or something nice, that he had
brought ashore for him.
As soon as our emotions had subsided, the Spaniard led
me to the hut I had formerly occupied ; the environs and
entrance to which had been so altered during my absence,
that I hardily knew it again. The Spaniard now introduced
me to his sixteen companions in the island -, and they re-
ceived ine with great politeness. We were now joined by-
Friday and his father 5 and the Spaniard having set before
us such refreshment as the island afforded, my ambassador,
as I called the first Spauiard, gave me an account of the
transactions during my absence, in nearly the following
words:—Having / said he, ' undertaken a voyage to the Ca-
hutamaes, according to your desire, Thurisko (Friday's fa-
ther) and myself, after a speedy passage, landed in safety on
the opposite continent, when I immediately repaired to the
quarter where my countrymen resided, who, concluding
-me dead, hailed my return with the loudest acclamations
of joy > as did the Indians also, on account of Friday's fa-
ther. , After a little consultation among ourselves, and
weighing your project in our minds, we concluded it would
be more advisable for us to come over to you; as your
island, being so well stocked with timber, would soon
enable us by our joint efforts, to build a vessel, strong and
large enough to carry us to one of the nearest European
settlements. Impressed with this idea, we borrowed two
canoes from the natives, under pretence of going on a fish-
ing party; in these we rowed over directly to your island.
" You may easily imagine the surprise we were in when
we found you were gone, and the island in possession of
strangers; who, as I learnt from two of the party, that
appeared better behaved than the rest, had already picked
a quarrel among themselves. Atkins immediately gave
me the letter yon had left, at the same time declaring, in
the name of himself and his companions, that they were
resolved to pay us every degree of respect which its con-
tents enacted. Soon after this, while I and the other Spa-
niards where cutting wood, the two peaceable Englishmen
came and informed us, that unless we took them under
our protection, they should certainly be murdered by their
rebellious countrymen, for W. Atkins and two of his com-
panions had attempted to murder them, and set fire to
their hut. In consequence of this," continued the Spaniard,
"I reprimanded Will Atkins and his companions when we
met at supper.—Will starting up, cast an indignant look
at me, seized hold of my hat, which he took otf my head,
and twirling it in my face, exclaimed with a grin, ''And
you, Jack Spaniard, you shall repent taking their parts!'—
' Aye,' said another, 'and have the same sauce too, if you
do not mend your manners.' Upon this I ventured to re-
monstrate with them on the unjustness of their proceedings
towards their countrymen, adding, that I hoped they did
not wish them to starve; to which Will Atkins replied,
with an oath, 'That starve or not, it was all one to him;
they should not build on his island.'—'Or if they like, they
may. be our servants,' added another of the forocioua
wretches. ^But how can you expect that?' said I, 'you
have not bought them, and therefore have no . right, to ex-
pect their services.'—-'Nor they to build upon cur island,'
replied Atkins. 'At that rate/ continued 1, 'we must
be your servants too.'—'Aye, and shall too, before we've
tldone with you/ muttered Will Atkins, and, beckoning his
companions to follow him, he left the hut without saying
another word, as did also the other two in compliance with
his signal. Judging that they had gone out .to put some ma-
lignant scheme into execution, we prepared to, follow; but,
by the time we had got over the paling of the fortification,
they had set fire to the huts which belonged to the two
Englishmen that, were with us, and destroyed the little
plantation which belonged to them. Enraged at this act;
of atrocity, we attacked them ; and, after a sharp scuffle,
took away their anus., leaving them to shift for themselves.
"At length, finding their ill behaviour had made us all
their enemies, and being fairly starved out, tfcey came to
beg we would restore their arms, and admit them into <uar '
community as before; \o which I replied, that the latter
part of their request should be instantly complied with -, but
. our general safety would require some further proofs of their
amendment, before their arms could be returned. , I had
no,sooner said this, th^n the spirit of rebellion broke out
afresh, and Will Atkins, after spitting in my face, told me,
that 1 and my countrymen should repent the favour we had
. sliown to the objects of their hatred, who also should that
night feel the full force of their resentments ; saying which,
tKey left the hut, uttering the most horrid imprecations.
Soon after the two Englishmen came to our hut, in order
to seek shelter from their enemies; and thus, for some
time did these malicious rogues insult, with impunity,
twenty harmless men, merely because our natural love of
peace prevented our punishing their temerity : nay, so great
was our clemency, that on their returning a few days after,
and swearing, in a solemn manner* to desist from their
atrocious conduct for the future, we gave back their arms.
" Soon after this, one night, as I lay in bed, I was awak-
ened by a confused din, as if a vast concourse of people had
been assembled together. Alarmed at this circumstance, I
ascended the hill, and heard the voices of several men, and
perceived a great light, which seemed to proceed from a
lar^e fire. Returning in haste, I awoke my countrymen,
aad sent off Thurisko to reconnoitre \ who soon returned
with intelligence, that two Indian nations, having been
engaged in a severe battle on the opposite shore, had land-
ed on our island, by chance, in order to devour their pri-
soners j in consequence of which, he had every reason to
think another battle would ensue: and he hud scarcely dri-
ed his relation, before the terrific yell, or war-whoop, pro-
claimed the beginning of another conflict; which surpassed
all the engagements I ever beheld. At length they took to
their canoes, and continued a running fight to the opposite
shore. Soon after we repaired to the scene of action, where
we found 32 dead bodies which we buried.
" For some time this horrid spectacle seemed to have curb-
ed the spirit of Will Atkins and his associates: but it wore
off, and another quarrel took place, of such serious conse-
quence, that we brought them to trial; when, leaving the
decision of the case to the two Englishmen, they sentenced
them to be hanged ; however, considering that I had owed
my life to an Englishman, I mitigated their sentence, and*
after setting before them the heinousness of their behaviour,
i doomed them to be banished to a remote part of the
island ; at the same giving them a sufficiency of grain, &e.
to begin a new settlement with. However, this new mode
of life proved so irksome to them, that in a few months
they came with a flag of truce, and solicited an old canoe,.
as they had determined to leave the island, and seek their
fortunes elsewhere. This we readily complied with, and
we saw them depart, to our pleasure, I assure yon.
" A month had barely elapsed before one of the English-
men came running to us, greatly frightened, exclaiming,1
.' We are undone! There are men upon the island who are
not savages! Alarmed at his account, we sallied forth, and
to our no small astonishments beheld Will Atkins and his
companions coming towards us: who informed us, that,
after two clays sailing they reached land, but where deter-
red from approaching by the warlike appearance of the na-
tives; however, coining at length to a cluster of small
islands, they attempted a landing at all events, where they
met with a courteous reception from the inhabitants, who,,
among other acts of friendship, thinking they were mem-
eater's as well as themselves, made them a present of three
men and five women, which they durst not refuse, for fear
of offending them. For some time they were at a loss to
decide what to do with this present; however, they resol-
ved to return to the island, and employ them it the cultiva-
tion of the plantation they had abandoned. Fearful that
the introduction of women would occasion quarrels, I per-
suaded them to cast lots for the sable beauties, when the
five Englishmen getting each of them a caro sposa, matters
mended considerably with us; and from that moment we
have beeu united together in the social band3 of peace."
The Spaniard having ended his narration, I caused the*
young priest to unite the Englishmen and their black ribs in
holy wedlock'; at which time the maid servant, whom we had
saved from starving, was also married to one of the artificers-
1 had brought over with me; who, together with her young
master arid the priest resolved to end their days on the island.
At length, having disposed of every thing toiny wish, I took
an affectionate leave of my subjects, and returned on board
my nephew's ship, where 1 gave a dinner to the seventeen
Spaniards-and five Englishmen j and the next morning my
nephew set sail for his destined port. A few days after this,,
wc observed a fleet of canoes making full speed towards us;.
we made signs for them to keep off, which they paid no re-
gard to, but continued advancing. I ordered Friday, to ask
them what they would have? But he had no sooner done
s-o than they fired some arrows at the poor fellow, several
of which hit him, and lie immediately died..
Enraged at the deatli of my old servant, I ordered the
gunner to fire his guns, and give them a broadside; which
lie poured in upon them so effectually, that 14 of their
canoes were sunk, and the rest, being frightened, made a
retreat. Compassion, however, got the better of my re-
sentment, and, observing one poor fellow swimming for his
life, I caused him to be taken up; but he proved stubborn^,
and, refusing to eat or drink, I ordered him to be flung over-
l oard, and hauled up again; which manoeuvre made him
more communicative; and he informed us by signs, that
they were going to a great battle,, when our ship catching
their attention, they had merely advanced to take a view of
us, and that they had shot, at us to make great wonder. We
buried Friday in-a decent manner, and soon after cast anchor
at the Brazils, where we fitted out a vessel with provisions
for my island, and then steered for the East Indies.
From here we embarked on board a couple of barks be-
longing to the country, and arrived safe at Archangel, from
thence we arrived at Hamburgh, where I sold my merchan-
dise. 1 then travelled over land to the Hague, embarked
on board an English packet, and arrived in the Downs,
Jan. 31, lft)9.
I hastened to the City of York, where I learnt my chil-
dren's guardian was dead, and they well settled in the world.
And now, in my 72d year, after suffering unparalleled^hard-
ships, know the value of retirement.
THE END.
G. Taylor, Printer, 5, Lamb's Conduit-Passage.
  ^m.u» t« v,
t  7*fr . 'L/F-> $*—-''<
'mm
W^*?
^md'^
