jJQflSJW CKiia
rararaw
&
it.
1
4
_5J
I 1
HENRY HOLTmd COMPANY
«"*» v
PUBLISHERS
KEWTOKR
ROBINSON CRUSOE
ROBINSON CRUSOE lived by the sea. He
wanted very much to be a sailor. His
father and his mother told him he would
have a very hard life if he went to sea, but he did
not believe them, and one day he ran away from
home. Soon a captain took him on a ship and he
became a sailor-boy.
Such a dreadful time he had! He was seasick
and unhappy, but he could not go back.
After some days he began to get over his
fright, and in the end he loved the sea so well
that he said there was no life so happy as a
sailor's.
He saw many strange lands and learned many
new things. Then one day there came a terrible
storm.
The captain's face grew white and stern. No
one dared to speak.
1
A little boat hung over the side of the ship.
The sailors set it afloat and all got into it.
" We shall be drowned," thought Robinson
Crusoe, as he looked at the wild sea. Then a
wave like a mountain swept upon them, and they
were all thrown into the angry water.
Crusoe set his teeth and swam with his might,
till another great wave washed him ashore.
For some time he lay still, too worn out to
move. At last he sat up and looked round. He
was on a desert island, alone.
II
" What! am I alone saved ? " cried Crusoe. " Oh,
misery ! No food, no clothes, no home, no friends.
Perhaps I shall have to stay here for ever. I shall
have no one to speak to; I shall forget how to talk.
How I wish I had been drowned with the rest!"
By and by, however, he began to think how
wonderful it was that he had been saved at all.
" I must not be a coward," he said. " I won't give
up hope. I am alive and well. I will live bravely."
He jumped up and looked roun'd. It was
getting dark; there was no one in sight.
2
" There may be wild beasts here," he said.
" It will be safer to sleep up a tree." So he
climbed into a tree and there fell asleep.
Ill
At dawn next day he awoke fresh and well.
He found that the wind had fallen,and the sea
was as smooth as glass. Crusoe lookei at it sadly,
remembering his friends who lay beneath the
waves. Suddenly he started, for there, near by,
was the ship, firm and unhurt, fixed on a bank
of sand.
A glad thought came to him. " The ship is
full of food and clothes and tools," he cried, " I
must bring them over here."
So he made a raft with some wood that had
floated ashore, and off he went.
Such a lot of things he found on the ship—
tins of biscuits, barrels of flour, dried meat, wine,
clothes, gunpowder, a bag of gold, guns, tools,
sails, and much more!
Very carefully he packed them on his raft.
Then he stepped on board himself and pushed
the load to shore with a pole.
3
" Now I am as rich as a king!" he cried.
" I have food and clothes and tools and guns.
At any rate, I need not starve nor be cold. The
next thing to do is to put up a tent with these
sails."
IV
Crusoe liked his tent, but, after some days
had passed, he saw that it would not keep out
heavy rain. "I must make a hut," he said, and
he went in search of a spot on which to build it.
By and by he came to a small hill, with a
cave in it. "The very place," cried Crusoe, and
he got his tools and began to build.
It took him a good many days to finish the hut,
but at last it was done. Then how proud Crusoe
felt! All round it he had put two strong fences,
very high and very firm. There was no gate in
the fence, so Crusoe made a ladder.
" No enemy can come in after me," he thought,
as he climbed over the fence and pulled the ladder
in after him.
That night he slept with a happy heart. He
was comfortable; he was safe.
4
V
Among the things Crusoe had brought from
the ship were two cats and a dog. He loved
them very much. They made him feel less lonely,
and he always had them near him when he ate
his meals.
His hut was now quite a cosy place. He had
made a table and chairs; he had set up shelves
and hooks; he had put a thatched roof over the
courtyard.
"Ah, this is fine," said Crusoe, as he sat
under the thatch. "When it is hot I can sit
here in the shade, and if it rains I shall not get
wet. -How snug I am!"
He set to work to cook his supper—part of
a wild goat he had shot that morning. As he
watched it roasting on the coals he felt very
happy.
By the time he had eaten his supper it was
dark. Crusoe had no lamp, so he went to bed.
Before he fell asleep an idea came into his mind:
" I will make a lamp," he thought, " and the fat
from the goat will do for oil."
5
VI
Next morning, Crusoe made a little dish of
clay and baked it hard in the fire. When it was
cold, he filled it with goat-fat and put in a bit
of thread as a wick. It gave only a tiny flame,
but it was a treasure to Crusoe. At night he
lighted it and sat reading one of the books he
had brought from the ship.
" This is splendid," he said. " Now there is
no need for me to go to bed as soon as the sun
sets. Hark! what is that?" He went to the door
and looked out. The rain was pouring in torrents.
Next day the rain was as heavy as ever,
and the next, and the next. Crusoe could not go
out. He sat at home, busy with the things he
had brought from the ship.
When at last' the rain stopped, Crusoe went
for a walk. The first thing he saw was a patch
of green barley. Where had it come from?
Suddenly he knew. Before the rain he had
shaken out a bag that had once held grain.
Some seeds had fallen into the ground.
" How wonderful! " cried Crusoe. " Now I
shall be able to make my own bread."
6
VII
Up till now, Crusoe had never gone far from
home, but now he set out to explore the island.
He still felt afraid of meeting an enemy, and he
was glad to have a gun to take with him and a
dog to keep him company.
He walk'ed on for some days, but saw no
one. On every side he found the most splendid
flowers and fruits. There were grapes and lemons,
cocoa-nuts and oranges. What a splendid feast
he had!
Some of the grapes he hung up to dry in the
sun. "They will make raisins for the winter,"
he said. All at once he thought how nice it
would be to have a summer house among these
lovely flowers and fruits.
"Splendid!" he cried, and he set to work to
put one up.
He stayed in this house through the long hot
summer till August, and then he set off for his
winter home. For, in the middle of August, rain
set in, and for the next twelve weeks there was
rain every day.
7
VIII
No ship had come to the island. Crusoe
began to think that he must live there for ever.
Sometimes the thought made him sad. But,
more often, he was too busy to think about
himself.
He had learned how to do a great many
things. He had made tables and chairs and
baskets, pots and jars, and even bread.
Making bread had been the hardest of all.
First, he made a wooden spade; then he dug
up the ground; then he made it smooth by
dragging over it the branch of a tree; then he
planted his seed; and when it was ripe he
plucked it and crushed it and baked it in the fire.
" It is the best loaf I have ever eaten," he
said, as he finished the last crumb.
Not long before this, Crusoe had caught a
parrot. He brought it home, and soon it grew
tame and friendly. What with his dog and his
^cats and his parrot, Crusoe did not often feel
j lonely. Now and again, however, he. longed to
get away from the island.
8
" I will make a boat," he cried one day.
He cut down a tree and shaped it into a
boat. It took him months to do it, but at last
it was ready. " Now for the shore!" cried
Crusoe. But the boat would not move. It was
too heavy for Crusoe to push.
"Oh!" he cried, hot and tired. "How silly
I have been! I have made the boat too big, and
it is too far from the shore. I must make
another, small and light, and make it near the
sea. so that it will slip easily into the water."
This time he made quite a small boat, with a
seat to sit on, and a sail and a mast. When
it was done he set it afloat. Then he jumped
in and went for his first sail.
" It is good to be on the sea again!" he
said, as he sailed off. " Now I shall be able to
go right round the island."
IX
Crusoe looked an odd .sight. His clothes had
long ago worn out, and he had had to make a
suit for himself from the skins of his goats. He
made a jacket and trousers, a high cap to keep
out the sun, and an umbrella for rain or very
hot days.
But he did not think of his clothes as he
cut through the water. He was too glad to be
upon the sea to think of anything else.
After a long sail he came home, proud of
his boat, and full of joy at getting back safely.
Some days later he was walking on the
shore when he saw something that made him
stop in fear. There in front of him lay a
footprint! It was not his own. Who had made it?
" Someone has been here," thought Crusoe.
"But who?"
Then, full of terror, he ran home and shut
himself inside his hut.
X
To make himself safe, Crusoe fixed some guns
through the fence round his hut. He could shoot
without being seen.
For some days he stayed near home, pale
and frightened. But no one came, and at last
he shook off his fear and went about as he had
done before.
10
One day he caught sight of smoke from
the shore. He crept to the edge of a cliff to
look over. Some savages were dancing round a
fire and eating. "What are they eating?" thought
Crusoe.
When the savages had sailed off in their
canoes, Crusoe stole to the sand. A pile of
bones lay there. The savages had eaten a man!
XI
One night Crusoe had a strange dream. He
saw a black boy running away from some men.
He ran up to Crusoe, who saved him.
" What an odd dream!" said Crusoe.
A year and a half after this, he again saw
some savages on the shore. They were about to
kill a black boy. " My dream is coming true,"
thought Crusoe, and he fired his gun at the men.
One fell dead. The boy ran up to Crusoe and
fell on his knees, shaking with fear.
With a shout the savages jumped into their
canoes and went off. The gun had frightened
them very much. They had never heard such a
noise before.
11
Crusoe patted the black boy kindly. " Come
with me," he said, and he took him home.
" I must give you a name," he said.
The boy did not know what Crusoe meant,
but he smiled back at him.
" Let me see," said Crusoe. " This is Friday.
Very well, I will call you Friday."
XII
Crusoe taught Friday English. He showed
him how to use a gun, how to milk the goats,
chop wood, and even how to sew. No more
savages came for a long time, and Crusoe and
Friday were very happy. Between them they
made a big boat, large enough to hold twenty
men, and they often went for a sail in it.
Crusoe had now almost forgotten what Eng-
land was like. One day Friday ran into the hut.
" Master! " he cried. " Canoes ! many of them."
" Come with me," said Crusoe, taking his gun.
Very softly they crept to the cliff. There
they saw some savages on the shore, about to
kill a man, who was tied up in ropes.
" Shoot!" cried Crusoe, and they both fired.
12
Three of the savages were killed, and five
more were hurt. The rest ran off in a fright.
Friday ran and untied the man in the ropes.
Master!" he shouted. "It is my father!**
<<
XIII
Friday was wild with joy at seeing *his
father. There was another prisoner with him, a
Spaniard.
"We must take them home," said Crusoe.
" Help me as much as you can, Friday."
" I will," said Friday eagerly, and between
them they got Friday's father and the Spaniard
safely to the hut.
For some time the four lived together on
the island. Then one day Friday's father and
the Spaniard sailed off to the island from which
they had come.
Friday and Crusoe watched them go.
" Come back soon ; come back soon," they cried.
A few days later a ship came in sight.
" Friday!" cried Crusoe. " I can see a ship—
an English ship, coming to the island."
" Hurrah!" cried Friday, throwing up his arms.
13
XIV
The next day Crusoe and Friday stepped on
to the English ship. Crusoe took with him the
bag of gold that he had saved from the ship,
but he left everything else.
" Now for merry England," cried the captain.
Crusoe did not speak. His heart was too full
for words.
By and by Friday crept up to him.
" Master," he said. " England, you say, is a
great island, with many men upon it. When you
get there, will you want Friday ?"
" Always," said Crusoe. " Always and for
ever, Friday." Friday's face shone with joy.
"Then I am glad we are going to England,"
he said.
And so, after a long voyage, the ship came
to the end of her journey.
"Friday," said Crusoe. "This is England."
" England! " cried Friday. " Oh, Master, how
glad I am to be here!"
Primed by Vincent Brooks, Day & Son. Ltd.. Parker Street. London, England.
