 WSfff
 CRUSOE ESCAPES FROM THE WAVES.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
"DOBINSON CRUSOE was an English lad, who,
"^ when quite young, ran away to sea against his
father's wishes. He made several voyages without
mishap, but at last, when he had become a man, and
had gone on a long voyage to Africa, the ship in which
he was sailing was wrecked in a storm. The wreck
took place near a strange coast, and the sailors, being
cast into the waves, tried to swim ashore, but all were
drowned except Robinson Crusoe. He was thrown
upon the beach nearly dead, and lay for a long time
senseless.
When he came to, and found himself able to walk,
he went to the top of a hill which he saw near by.
From there he could see that he was on a small island,
which seemed to be entirely without human inhabitants.
When he realized the awful situation in which he was
placed, all by himself on this lonely island, to which
ships probably never came, and from which there was
little hope that he could ever escape, he was filled with
despair, and he almost wished that he had died with
his shipmates. But other thoughts soon came to his
mind. He remembered how he had disobeyed his
father, and felt that his fate was no better than he
deserved, and he fell on his knees to ask God's pardon,
and to thank him for sparing his life.
 BUILDING A CABIN.
 COMPANIONS OF LONELY HOURS.
JEhe sea began to grow calm, and when the tide went
4?^ri> Crusoe was able to swim out to the wrecked
vessel, which had become imbedded in the sand. He
found that the stores of food aboard were unharmed,
and he set about getting them ashore. He made a
raft out of some planks, and with it was able to bring
small loads safe to land. Besides the food, he secured
a lot of tools, and some guns and other weapons, which
proved to be of great value to him.
Then he set to work to build himself a dwelling, out
of the planks of the ship. He knew but little about
the use of tools, so the hut he built was very rude, but
it served to shelter him from the sun and rain.
In the meantime, he frequently went about the island
with his gun, and often shot birds or wild goats, whose
flesh he used for food. On one of his rambles, he
caught a parrot alive, and he made a pet of it, and
taught it to speak. He had also the company of a
dog that had been aboard the ship, and these two
creatures often served to while away his lonely hours.
The clothes in which Robinson Crusoe had come
ashore were soon worn out, and he had to replace them
with garments which he made out of the skins of the
goats he shot The heat of the sun was so fierce, that
he needed protection from it as he went about, so he
made himself an umbrella of goat-skin also.
After many years had passed, Crusoe was alarmed
one day to see some prints of naked feet in the sand.
Gladly as he would have welcomed the face of a civil-
ized being, he felt only fear at the sight of these tracks,
for he knew they must be those of savages. Not long
after, when he went out one morning, he saw smoke
at a distance, and stealing up under the shelter of some
trees, he saw that a lot of savages, who had come to
the island in canoes, were about to roast, over a fire,
some captives whom they had brought with them.
Presently, one of the captives broke away, and Crusoe
was in terror when he saw that he was coming straight
toward him. But he made up his mind to try to save
him, and when those who were after him came near
enough, he fired his gun at them.
One was killed, and the rest were so terrified by the
noise of the gun that they turned about and ran to
their canoes, in which they all paddled away.
The escaped captive then came and fell on his knees
before his rescuer. Crusoe made signs to show that
he had nothing to fear, and took him home with him
to his hut. By degrees he taught the poor fellow to
speak English, and he soon became a pleasant com-
panion and useful servant. Crusoe gave him the name
of Friday, because it was on that day he had rescued
him.
Although Robinson Crusoe was now less lonely, he
still longed to leave the island and go back to his old
home in England, but he had given up all hopes of
ever being able to do so. So you can imagine what
 FINDING THE FOOT-PRINTS IN THE SAND.
 WATCHING THE SAVAGES.
 THE RESCUED CAPTIVE.
$pet: Co!'. L t h . ..
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
was his surprise and delight when Friday came run-
ning to him one morning to tell him that a ship was
in sight. He hastened to the shore, and he and Fri-
day made all possible signals to attract the attention of
those on board. They succeeded, and the captain of
the ship sent a boat ashore. Then Crusoe learned that
the ship was an English one, bound for home, and
when he told his story, the captain agreed to carry
him and Friday along, and they set sail the same day.
Twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days
had passed since Crusoe was thrown upon the island.
Poor Friday never reached England. One day some
savages came paddling toward the ship in canoes, and
Friday was sent on the upper deck to speak to them
and find out what they wanted. At almost the first
word, the wretches let fly their arrows at him, and he
was killed. The ship's guns were fired at the canoes
and the savages were all destroyed, but Robinson
Crusoe was not consoled by that for the loss of Friday,
of whom he had become very fond. When he arrived
in England, he found that his father and mother were
dead, and that few of his friends were living, and
for a time he felt almost as lonely as ever. But he
married a good wife before long, and settled down to
a quiet, industrious life. He was blest with children
who grew up to be his delight and comfort, and his
old age was spent in peace and happiness.
 #
