THE
LIFE
MOST SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OP
OF YORK, MARINER
FOURTH EDITION.
/
DUBLIN
WUSTLB BfefOHN JONES, 40, SOUTH
1826.
THB
AND ADY.S&TURH& , ,''. ."-
"' -• ''i ft .' --- .. -'. : "I '.I J':r:\'.<< -'<'"
. .:- V Hi: 1 :- c.i' itW-":t'.r--. :.''
HOB INSON GR«F«<*E.
.' -'.'.'-•--< .-i.Yti'''.:^T .'m.;..v. S-.li."'-- -

. -i .--.: f -.'-- ,rv/ 0; i
I WAS born at York, in the year 1632, of a
reputable family. My father was a native of
Bremen, wko, fey merchandizing at HeJ1 fof
some time-, famed a veiy plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that country: Mid as her
maiden name was Robinson, I was .called
Robinson Krevtgnaer, .which »pt feeing easily
pronounced in. .the English tongn^ we are com-
monly known by the name of Crusoe.r:-' \- -'--'-
1 was the youngest of three brothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lock-hart's
regim«it, hul slain by the Spaniards: what
became of the other I could never learn, . i
No charge nor pains -were wanting in my
education.. - My. father 'designed me for the
law, yet nothing could serve- me; but .1 rtnst.go
to sea, jfeth against.tiie'WriU of my JaUber,. tfa*
6
tears of my mother,, and the intreaties of my
friends. One morning, my father expostulated
very warmly with me. What reason, says he,
have you to leave your native country, where
there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He
recommended to roe AguVs wish, Neither to
desire poverty, nor riches; that a middle state
of life was the most happy; and that the high
towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with mi-
sery and danger, and often ended with confu-
sion and disappointment. I entreat you, nay,
Jt command you, (says he,) to desist from these
intentions. If you will go, (added he)' my
prayers shall however be offered for your pre-
servation; but a time may come, when deso.
late, oppressed,- or forsaken, you may wish
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel. He pronounced those words with-
such a moving- and paternal eloquence, while
floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions.
But this soon wore off, and a little after, I in-
formed my mother that I could not settle at
any business, my resolution was so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage; which
if it did not prove -prosperous, I would never
attempt a second. But my desire was as vain'
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately
expressed ber dislike *>f this proposal, telling
me, That as she saw I teas bent on my wen
destruction, contrary to their will and my-duty,
she wonld say no more, but-lia ve me to my self,
to da whatsoever I pleased.
{ was then, »I think, nineteen years old,
when one time being at Hull, I met a school-
fellow -of-mine .going along with his father, who
was master of a ship, to London, and acquaint-
ing him with my wandering desires, he assured
me of a free passage, and a plentiful share of
what was necessary-. 'Thus, without imploring
a blessing, or taking a farewel of my parents, J
:took shipping on the first of September 16.51.
Upon the sixth day .we oame to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound witk
some Newcastle ships-; and there being.a good
-anchorage, and ewr .cables eound, the seamen
forgot their late toil asd danger, and spent
the 'tim* as merrily as .if they had been on
shore. But on the eighth day, there arose a
'brisk grile ef wind, wiiiet prevented otn
tiding it up tke liver; and it still iacreasing,
our ship rode forecastle io, and shipped se-
-Teral largo seas.-
It -was set :lo»g tefore horror smeed -the
eeamen themselves,' and I heard the master
express thif-- moluBoholy ejacultttiou, Lard have
tnerty ttpen us, we shatt-be all tost artd'undone!
For my part, sick unto death, 1 kept my cabin,
till the universal and -terribly -dreadful appre-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
-deck, and there I was affrighted indeed. The
*ea went mountains high: I could' seejioibiog
but distress around us; two ships Lad cut away
their masts, and another had foundered: two
more that had lost their anchors, were forced
out to the mercy of the ocean: and, to save
our lives, we were forced to cut our foremast
and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more ter-
rified. Our ship was very good, but .oveis
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
She will founder: words I then was ignorant
of. All this while, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing, the .master and the moro
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every moment. In the middle
of the night, one cried out, We had sprung a
leak: another, That there was Jour feet water
in the hold. I was just teady to expire with
fear, when immediately all hands were called
to the pump: and the men forced me also in
that extremity to share with them in their la-
bour. While thus employed, the master espy-
ing some colliers, fired a gun as a signal of dis-
tress; and I not understanding what it meant,
and tliinking that either the; ship was wrecked,
or !rome dreadful thing had .happened, fell into
aswoon. Even in that condition of wo, nobody
minded me, excepting to thrust me aside with
their feet, thinking me dead; and I- was a great
while before, I recovered.
IJappy .it was fpr ns, when, upon the sigflsl
given, they ventured out their boat to save oiir
lives. All our pumping bad been in vain, and
vain had all onr other efforts' be'en, 'had they not
come to :6ur ship's side, and* our men cast
them a rope over the stern witti a buoy to i*;
which after great difficulty they caught hold of;
and we hauling them to Us'got intfrtlieir boat,-
and left our ship, which'r'wle p'erceiv'ed sink
within less than a quarter of an hour: fend
thus I learned what was rfteant by foundering
at sea. And now the rnen incessantly la-
boured to recover their Own ship; but the
sea ran so high, and the wind blew so hard,
that they thought it convenient to' haul in
shore, which with great difficulty and danger
at last we happily effected, landing at a place
called Cramer, not far from Winterton light-
Louse; from whence we all walked to Yar*
month, where, as objects of pity, many good
people furnished us with the necessaries to carry
us cither to Hull or London.
Strange! that after all this, I did not, like
the prodigal son, return to my father: who,
hearing of the ship's calamity, for a long time
thought roe entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared in his fatted calf, as
the Scripture expresseth it: but my wayward
disposition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days,
I met my old companion whfr had given me
the invitation to go on board along with hi*
father His bshaviour and speech were altered,
A 5
-
10
and, ie a melancholy manner he asked me bowl
did? telling his father who I was, and how I had
tnade this voyage for a trial only before I should
proceed farther abroad. Upon which the old
gentleman turning to me, said, Young man, I.
'recommend you tochuse another line of life; the.
-sea is an uncertain element to trust to, and you
have latelyeyperiencedsomeof the hardshipsto
wltick sailors are exposed. Sir, answered I,
will you take the same resolution? It is n dif-.
Cerent case, said he, it is my calling, and, con-
sequently my duty to remain contented with it:
6ut as you have made this voyage for a trial
merely, and have every other line open to you,
Ithinkyou might chuse one less liable to hard-
ship and reverses. But pray what are you, and
on what account did you go to sea. Upon which
1 very freely declared my whole story; at the
end of which he said, in a tone of seriousness,
which I shall never forget, Young man, you
ought to thank God, that you did not perisA
whilst you were committing this act of disobedi-
ence to your Father; had I known these cir-
cumstances, you may be assured I never should
have suffered you to sail along with as; thank
God, however, that you may still atone for the
past. Return to your Parents, they will for-
giveyou, but if you do not, recollect your Fa-
ther's words, attdbeware lest his warni/igshould
he realised ;—and so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but shame
opposed that good notion, as thiuking I should

11
• J. •--.'•-
be lauglied t. 5 by my neighbours and acquaint-
ances. So strange is the nature of youth, who
are not ashamed to sin, but yet ashamed to re-
pent^ and so far from being ashamed of those
actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, I
travelled up to London, resolving upon a
voyage; and a voyage I soon heard of, by my
acquaintance with a captain who took a. fancy
to me, to go to the coast of Guiuea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man; nay, the commander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry-
any thing with me, and make the best mer-
chandise I could. - ; . i
I blessed my happy fortune, aad humbly
thanked the captain for his oiler, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, forty nounds weru
sent me, the greatest part of which, my dear
father and moth tar contributed, with which 1
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation,
so that 1 soon knew how to keep an account
of the ship's course, and to take an observa-
tion, and also became acquainted with several use-
ful branches of the mathematics. Andindeed this
voyage made me both a sailortand a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces,
Troy Veight of gold dust, for my adventure;,

12
which produced, at my return to London,, al-
most throe hundred pounds; but in this voyage
I was extremely sick, being thrown into a very
violent fever through excessive heat, trading
upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen de-
grees north, even to (he line itself.
But, alas! my dear friend the captain de-
parted this life soon after his arrival. This was
a sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go
another voyage with his mate, who had now-
got command of the ship. This proved a
very unsuccessful one; for though I did' not
carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds
left, which I reposed with the Captain's widow,
who was an honest gentlewoman,) yet my mis-
fortunes in this voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by a Salee rover; and in spite
of all the haste we could make, by crowding
as much canvas rt* our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us,
so that we prepared ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des-
perate engagement, wherein many were killed
and wounded on both sides: but finding our-
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship
disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have
the least hopes of success, we were forced to
surrender; and accordingly we were all carried
pri-onprs into the port of Salee. Onr men
wew sent to the Emperor's court to be sold
13

there; but the pirate captain taking notice of
me, kept me to be his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the most
miserable creature on earth, and the warning
of my father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition was better than "T
thought it to be, as will soon appear. Some
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by'a
Spanish or! Portuguese man of war, and then
I shpuld be set at liberty. But in this I was
mistaken; for he never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when lie re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
which were continually meditating my escape,
No Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman, in
short, no Briton amongst his slaves but myself;
and for two years I could see nothing practica-
ble, but only pleased myself with devising
plans whiqh I was always obliged to relinquish.
After some length of time, my patron as I
found, grew so poor, that he could not fit out
his ship as usual; and then he used constantly..
once or twice a week, if the weather was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would often send me
with a Moor, who wa« one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish of
fish for him.
14

One morning, as we were fishing, there
--arose such a thick fog, that we Iqst sight of the
-shore; and rowing, we knew not which way,.
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean,- two league*,
from Jand. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because [
our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and hun-
gry. In ©rder to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered a carpenter to
build a little state-roetn or cabin in the middle
-of the long boat, with a place behind it to
steer and haul home the main sheet, with other
conveniences to keep him from the weather, as
also lockers to put in all manner of provisions;
with a handsome shoulder-of-muttonsail, gibing
-ever the cabin. .
In this, he frequently toek us out a fishing;
-an4 one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions
extraordinary: providing also three fusees,
with powder and shot, that they might kill
some sea fowl along the coast.' The next
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: butl
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a.fishing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the
Moor to gut some provisions on board, and to
procure some powder and s hot, pretending to
kill sea-curlews, which he innocently and rra-

15

fijly agreed to. In short, being provided with
all things necessary, we sailed out. - lt
When we had passed the castle, we fell to
a fishing; but though I knew there was a bite, I
dissembled the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far-
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, and pre-
tendmg to stoop for something, I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overboard. As
he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose,
and made towards the boat; upon which I
took out a fusee, and presented it at him:
; Muley," said I, "I never yet designed to
tt do you any harm, and seek nothing now but
"^ my freedom. I know you are able enough
to swim to shore, and save your life; but if
"you are resolved to follow me to the e»-
"dangering of mine, the very moment you
"proceed, I will shoot you through the head."
The harmless creature, at these words, turned
mmself from me, and, I make no doubt, got
safe to land. Then turning to the boy Xury,
I perceived he trembled at the action; but I
put him out of all fear, telling him, that if
ae would be true and faithful to me, 1 would
do well by him, and not hurt him.
We then pursued our voyage, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but
in the dark of the evening I changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
a. fresh gale of wind, with a very pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, T was
loO miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
16 -
y
dominions. I continued sailing for five days
successively, {ill such time as the wind shifting
to. tlhc southward, made me conclude that if
any vessel was in chace of me, they would
proceed no further.
After so much fatigue and though!, I an-
chored' at the mouth qf a little river, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk of
the evening to swim ashore: but no sooner
did the gloomy clouds of ni^ht begin to suc-
ceed the declining day, than we heard such-
barking, roaring, and howling of wild crea-.
tures, that one might have thought ihe very.
strongest monsters of nature had their residence
there. Poor Xury, who was almost dead with
fear, entreated me not to go on shore that night.
'Suppose 1 don't, Xury," said I, "and in the
'morning we should see men who are worse
'than those wo fear, what then?" "O den
'we may give dem de shoot gun," said he,
'laughing, "and de gun make dem all run
'away." The wit, and broken English which
the boy had learned^ from myself, for we had
passed a great deal' of our time together,
pleased me entirely, and made me still fonder
of him than before... We could get but little
sleep all the night for the terrible howlings they
made; and indeed we were very muchaffrighted.
The next morning, T was resolved to go on
shore to get in fresh water, and ventured my-
self among the beasts or savages, should either

17
attack me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars, and bring mo some. I asked him why he
would go and not I? The poor boy answered,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
•' away." \This, indeed increased my affec-
tion for the child. "Well, denrXury," sa-o I,
'- we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
"and thoy siiall eat neither of us." So giving
Xury a piece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms, and two
jars for wnter. I did noi go out of sight of tha
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the
river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low-
descent or \ale abont a m:le in the country, he
wandered to it; and then running back to me,
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some savages or wi!d beasts; .upon
which I approached, resolving to perish, or pro-
tect him from danger. As he came nearer to
me, I saw something hanging over his shoul-
ders, which was a creature he had shot like a
hare, but different in colour, and with longer
legs; however, we were glad of it, for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what
added to our joy was, my boy assured me
there was plenty of water, and that he "saw
"Iio wild mans." And greater still was our
comfort, when we found fresh water in the
creek where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so far up into the country.
In this place I began - to. hope that I should
meet some of the English trading ,vessels, who
would relieve and take-ius in/, - -/.- ;-"<•';;
18
The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild
-country, inhabited only by a few, that lies
-between 'the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly.—
-From this place, I thought I saw the top of th»
mountain Teneriffe, in the Canaries, which
wade me try twice to attain it, bat as often
was I driven tack, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along shore.
Early one m»rnvng we caime to -an .anchor
tmder a little point of land, but pretty high:
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go farther in; -but Xury, whose youthful and
'penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, hi a
soft to DP, desired roe to keep far from land,-
lest we should be devoured; "For, look yon-
"der, mayster, and see de dreadful monster
"fast asleep OB de side of de hill." Accord-
ingly looking where he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great
lion -that lay on shore, coveted as it were hy a
shade of a piece of the bill. "Xury," said I,
"you shall go on share and kit! him." But
the boy looked amazed. -" Me kill hiw !" says
he, "he eat me at one mouth," meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and
& good charge of powder, And pulling in shone
till we had come within nrnsket shot «t'the
place whore he lay, I took tho best aim I
.could to shoot him through the head, fant his
leg lying over his .nose, the slug broke his
.knee bone. The lion awaking with the pain,
got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my
second piece, I shot him through the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go
on shore. "Go then," s»id I. Upon which,
taking a tittle gun in one hand, lie swam to
shore with the other, and coming dose to the
lion, put a period to his life, by shooting him
again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was like a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut off the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut off
.and brought me a foot. 1 bethought mo, how-
ever, that his skin would be of us'e. This cost
Xury and me a whole day: when spreading it
on the top of our cabin, the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oftener
on shore than we were-obliged for fresh water,
in hopes to meet some European ship. If
Providence did not favour me, my next course
was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the negroes; in a word, either I must
meet with some ship, or certainly perish.
One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people standing on the shore and looking at us;
we could also perceive they were black, and
.etark naked. I was inclined to go OB shore; hut
20
Xury cried, No, no; however, I approached
nearer, and I found they ran along the slioro
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hftnds, except one, who held a long
stick- which Xu'ry told me was a lance, with
which they could kill at a great distance. I
talked to them by signs; and made them sen-
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckon-
ed to me to stop my boat, while two of them
ran up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back- and brought with them
two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, whkfh
we gratefully accepted; and to prevent any
fears on either side.lhey brought the food to the
shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great way off, till w* fetched it :on board, and
then came close to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to
them, being all we cou^d affi>rd, two mighty
.creatures oamo from the mountains, ono as it
were pursuing the other with great fury, which
we were the rather inclined to believe, .as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both thfese
swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion ef .the waters had put a stop to
their fierceness! -At last one-of them coming
nearer to my boat than I expected, or dpsifed,
I shot him direetly through the head, upon
which ho sunk iwiwuedrately, yet rising again,
he would have- willingly made'to the shore,
but between ilia vfannd'and'the struggling in
the water/ ha-died;before he could'reatih it.
SI
It is. impossible to express the consternation
the poor negroes weye in at the firing of my
gun; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to them to draw it near with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made
me desire its skiti; and the negroes seeming
to covet the carcase, 1 freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swiftness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, I took my leave, and
after eleven days sail, came in sight of the
Cape de Verd- But the great distance I was
from it, and fearing contrary winds would
prevent my reaching them, I began to grow
melancholy and dejected, when upon a sudden,
Xury ciied out, "Master, master," looking as
Affrighted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But J soon discovered she was
a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
life to come .up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. Encouraged at this, I set
up ruy patron's ancient, and iired a gun, both
as signals of distress; upon which they very
kindly .lay to, so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They gpoke to me in Portu-
guese, Spanish, and French, but none of these
did 1 understand, till at length a Scots sailor
22
called, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at
Salee, upon_ which they took me kindly on
board, with all my effects. .
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils,
we arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos,
or, All Saints Bay, in twenty-two days after.
And here I cannot forget the generows treat-
ment of the captain. He would take nothing
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and thirty for the lion's.
Every thing he caused to be delivered to me, and
what I would sell he bought. In short, I
made 220 pieces of my cargo, and with this
stock I entered once more, as I may say, into
the scene of lite
To be brief, I bought a settlement next
door to an honest and kind neighbour, born
at Lisbon, of English parents, whose planta-
tion joining to mine, we improved very ami-
cably together. Both OHr stocks were low;
and for two years we planted only for food:
but the third year we planted soiuv tobuoco,
and each of us dressed a large piece of giaund,
the ensuing year, for planting sugar-canes.
F was in some measure sottled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Btrit-
zils. One day I went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
in getting it sent out to me; to which the gnod
gontieman readily consented, but would only
itavn me send tor half my money, lest it sUuul4.
miscarry, which, it it did. I might still have t
23
remainder to support me; and so taking let-
ton of procuration from me, bid me trouble
myself no further about it.
And indeed, he not only procnred the
money I had drawn for upon my captain's
widow, but sent me over a servant, with at
eatgo proportionable to. my conditien. Ho
also sent me over tools- of all sorts, iron work
and utensils necessary for my plantation.
Wealth now increasing on rue, and uncom-
mon success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life which my father so ofteu recommended;
yet nothing would content me. Having lived
four years in Brazil, } had not only leained the
language, but contracted acquaintance with
the most eminent planters, ami even with the
merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to wake. After en joining.
me to secrecy, they told me they bad a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not be publicly sold, they would
divide among them; and if I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the
negroes, without providing any stock. The
thing indeed was tair enough, had I been in
another condition: however, I could not re-
sist the proposal, but accepted the offer, upoa
condition of thoir looking after my pluuta*
tioo. .'.:- "r -
24
Th* ship being fitted put, and all thing.*
roady, we set sail the first of September, I (id!).
We sailed northward- upon the coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean put»pf the
sight of land- we steered as though we were
bound for the island Fornand de Norenba,
leaving the island on the east; and then it
was we met with a terrible tempest, which
continued for twelve days successively, SQ
that the winds carried us wheresoever they
pleased. In this perplexity, one of our men
died, and a man and a boy were washed over-
board. When the weather cleared up a little,
we found ourselves upon the coast of Guiana.
Upon this the captain gave reasons for return-
ing; which 1 opposed, counselling him to
stand away for Barbadoes, which, as I sup-
posed, might be attained in fifteen days. So
altering our course, we sailed north-west and
by west, in order to reach the Leeward
Islands; but a second storm succeeding, drove
us to the westward, so that we were justly-
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel sa-
vages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand-bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
wo were driven, whether it was an island or
the main, inhabited or not inhabited^ and. wo
25
could not so much as hope, that the ship
would hold out many minutes, without break-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miraclo
should turn about immediately. While wo
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship's side; into this we all got, being
eleven in number and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we
saw that this last effort would not be a suffi-
cient protection from death; so high did the
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should
live. 'As to making a sail we had none, nei-
ther if we had, could we make use of any. So
that when we had rowed, or rather wore driven
about a league and a half, a raging wave, like
'a lofty mountain, came rolling a-stern of us,
and took us with such fury, that at once it
overset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to re-
ceive our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible, when
struggling in the pangs of death; but while I
was overwhelmed with water, I had the most
'dreadful apprehensions imaginable, for the
thoughts of every thing which I had done
amiss came crowding to my mind. I had dis-
obeyed my- parents, I had slighted their ad-
vice, I had left them to follow my own way-
ward inclination, and I was now. about to ap.
B

ROBINSON CRUSOE clinging to the rocks-.
27
pear before that Being whom I had offended.
1 was going I thought I knew not whither- in a
dismal gulph unknown, and as yet unperceived,
never to behold my friends- nor the light of this
world any more! I strove however to tho last
extremity, while all my companions were over,
powered and entombed in the deep; and it was
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should
pursue me, and carry me back again. But for
all the haste I made, 1 could not avoid it, for
the sea cuuie after me like a high mountain, or
a furious enemy; so that my business was to
hold my breath, and by raising myself on the
water, to save myself by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but at the same time, carried«.-:
me with a mighty force and swiftness toward^
the shore, when raising myself, I held out as
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being
served twice more, I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner, as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the, re-
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
28
which was soon conquered. But -before any-
more could overtake me, 1 reached the main-
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore, tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the grass, free from the danger of the foaming
ocean.
No tongue can express the transports that
my soul felt at this happy deliverance. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands, with the profouudest humility, to
the divine power for saving my life; when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. I could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no c'.-.thes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to e.it or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled
with tobacco. The darksome night coming
upon me, increased my fears of being devour-
ed by wild creatures, my mind was plunged
in despair, and having no prospect, as I
thought of life before me, I prepared for ano-
ther kind of death than what I had lately es-
caped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any fresh water, which I did to my
great joy; and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy
tree, and seating myself so that I could not
fall, a deep sloop overtook me, and for that
night, buried my sorrows in quiet repose.
39
It was broad day, the next morning, before I
.awoke, when I not only perceived the tempest
-was ceased, but saw tho ship driven almost as
far as tho rock before mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.—
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
tant on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water about
half a mile's breadth between it and me, I re-
turned again towards the ship, 'as hoping to
find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, when the sea was so calm
that I could coma within a quarter of a mile of
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if wo
had kept on board, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew tears from my eyas, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
waded as far as I could find depth; after which,
swimming round her, I was afraid I could not
get any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good
fortune to espy a small piece of rope hanging
down so low, that, by the help of it, though
with great difficulty, 1 got into the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bilged, and had a great
deal of water in her, her stern was lifted up
against a bank, and her head almost in tho
'water. All her quarter, and what was there,
were free and dry. The provisions I found in
good order, and, losing no time, ate while L
was doing other things. I also found some
B 3
30
rum, of which I took a little; and now I wanted
for nothing; except a boat, which indeed was
all, to carry away what was needful for me.
Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a spare top mast
or two, and two or three large spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them over board as I could manage, tying
every one of them with a rope that they might
not drive away. This dune, 1 went down the
ship's side, and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form of a rait, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare top-mast into three
lengths, adding them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first lading
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
next lowered down three of the seamen's chests,
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats flesh,
and some European corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I .*bund several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginnmg to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away, which I had left on shore; as for my
linen, breeches, and stockings, I swam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than 1 wanted for the
present. My eyes were chiefly on tools to
31
work with, and after a long search, I found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked for arms and ammu-
nition, and in the great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns tilled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swords. T likewise" found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were good, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three ad-
vantages in my favour. I. A smooth calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
3. The little wind there was, blowing towards
land. After I had sailed about a mile, I found
the raft driving a little distance from the place
where I tinut landed, and then I perceived an
opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which I kept the
middle of the stream. But great was my con-
cern, when on a sudden, the forepart of my
raft ran aground. But after some time the ris -
ing of the water caused the raft to float again,
and coming up a little river, with land on both
sides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that way.
- Not far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with smaller hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix. my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder,
32
and ball, I ascended the mountain. There I
perceived I was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scat-
tering rocks that lay to the west; it seemed
to be a barren place, and as I thought, only
inhabited by wild beaets. I perceived abund-
ance of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I shot one
of them at my return, which occasioned a con-
fused screaming among the other birds, and I
found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kind of
hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my
effects on shore, which work spent that day en-
tirely; and fearing that some cruel beast
might devour me in the night time while I slept,
I made a kind of hut, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I had brought on shore.
That night, I slept very comfortably; and the
next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to this ship, and bring
away what necessaries I could find, before ano-
ther storm should break her in pieces. Accord-
ingly, I got on board as before, and prepared a
second raft far more nice than the lirst; upon
which, I Brought away the carpenter's stores,
two or three bags full of nails, a great jack-
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket bullets, another fowling
piece, a small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these, I took
all the nien's clothes I cou|d find, a spare fore*

ROBIXSOX CRUSOE on his Raft,
top-sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and
thus completing my second cargo, I made all
the haste to shore I could, fearing some wild
beast might destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on one
of the chests, who not seeming to fear me, or
the gun that I presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, which she instantly eat and
departed.
When I had got these effects on shore, I
went to work in order to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which I had cut
for that purpose, and having finished it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and casks
in a circle, the better to fortify it against any
sudden attempt of man or beast. After this, I
blocked up the doors with some boards, and an
empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bed
on the ground, slept as comfortably till the
next morning as though I had been in a Chris-
tian country.
Now though I bad enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance,
and fearing that both ammunition and provision
might be spent before such a thing happened,
I saved as much as I could, and so long as the
ship remained in that condition, I daily brought
away one necessary or other: particularly the
rigging, sails, and cordage: some twine, a bar-
rel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and indeed what was most
welcome to me,a whole hogfchead of bread.
<35
The next time I went, I cut the cables in
pieces, carried off a hawser whole, with a great
deal of iron work, and made another raft; but
this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy bur-
den upon it, and 1 not being able so dexte-
rously to guide it as the former, both my cargo
and myself were overturned. For my part, all
the damago I sustained was a wet skin: and at
low water, after much labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of Iron.
Fifteen days had I now been on the island,
and eleven times on board, bringing away all
that was possible. As I was going the twelfth
time, the wind began to rise; however I ven-
tured at low water, and rummaging the cabin,
in a locker, I four\d several razors, sc'raars, and
some dozens of knives and forks, and in ano.
ther, thirty-six pounds in pieces of eight, silver
and gold. I wrapt the money up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but 1 soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darkness.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let myself
into the water with what things I hs4 about
me; and it was with great difficulty 1 got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.
That night T slept very contentedly in my
liHle tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning,'no im<--e slali
was to be seen. This naueh sanirisod me fur
36
the present; yet, when I considered that I had
lost no time, abated no pains, and had got
every thing useful out of her, I comforted my-
self in the best manner, and entirely submitted
to Divine Providence,
My next thoughts wero, how I should de-
fend and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were in the island.
When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well watered, where I might not
only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat,
but be more conveniently situated, as well to bo
secured-from wild men, and beasts of prey, as
rnore easily to discover any distant sail, should
it ever so happen.
And indeed it was not long before I had my
desire- t found a little plain near a rising hill,
the front towards which, being as steep as a
house-side, nothing could descend on me from
the top.
On the side of4his rock was a little hollow
place, resembling- the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delight-
ful green before my door, with a- pleasing,
though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by.the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of the sun. After this I drew a
semicircle, twenty feet in diameter, driving
37
down two rows of strong stake* not sis indies
from each other. Then, with the pieces of
cables which I had cut on board, i regularly laid
them in a circle between the piles, up to their
tops, which were more than five feet out of the
earth, and then drove another row of piles look-
ing within side against them, between two and
three feet high, which made me conclude it a
little castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security, 1 would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which I also made.
Here was mj fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion house; and this cost me many days
labour and pains. One day, in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning,
ensued, which put me in terror, lest my powder
(should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by preventing me from killing
myfood, buteven blow up me and my habitation.
To prevent which, I fell to making boxes and
bags, in order to separate it, having by me near
150lbs. weight. And thus being established as
king of the island, every day I wont out with my
gun, to sea what I could kill that was fit to eat.
I soon perceived numbers of goats,but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I
could better shoot them off the rock?, than wten
38
in the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-
goat suckling a young kid; which, not think-
ing its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the
young one followed me even to the enclosure.
I lifted the kid over the pales, and would wil-
lingly have kept it alive, but finding it could
not be brought to eat, I was forced to slay it
also for my subsistence.
Thus, entered upon a lifc of solitude, I had
most melancholy apprehensions concerning my
deplorable condition; and many times, the tears
would plentifully run down my face, when I
considered how I was debarred from all com-
munication with human kind. Yet while these
desponding thoughts would seem to make me
accuse Providence, other good thoughts would
interpose and reprove me after this manner:
Well, supposing you are desolate, is it not
better to h» so than totally perish? Why
should you complain, when not only your
life was preserved, but the ship driven into
'your reach, in order to take what was ne-
'cessary out of her for a subsistence?" But
to proceed: It was, by the account 1 kept, the
30th of September, when I first landed on this
island. A'oout twelve days after, fearing lest
1 should loose my reckoning of time, nay even
forget the sabbath days, for want of pen, ink,
and paper, I caived with a knife upon a large
post, in great letter?. / came on shore, Sept.
30, 1631), and set H up in the similitude of a
cross, on the sea shore where I landed. Every
day I cut a notch with my knife on the sides of
the square post, and that on the Sabbath was
as long again as the rest, and every first day
of the month, as long again as that long one.
In this manner, I kept my calendar, weekly,
monthly, or yearly reckoning of time. But
had I made a more strict search ( as I did af-
terwar Is,) I need not have set up this mark.
For among the parcels belonging to the-gun-
ner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I found
those very things I wanted; particularly' pens,
ink, and paper; also I found two or three
compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
three English bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up. Here I can--
not but call to mind our having a dog and two
cats on board, whom I made inhabitants with
me in my castle. Though one might think I
had all the necessaries that were desirable, yet
still I found several things wanting. My ink
was daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together:
and particularly a spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I
finished my little bulwark; and having some
intervals of relaxation, after my daily wamfer-
ing abroad for provision, I drew up this plan
alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
- iac - of the miseries aod blessings of my life,
umisr so many various circumstances.
c2
40
.EVIL.
I am cast upon a
desolate island, having
no prospect of a wel-
come deliverance.
How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.
Like a hermit ( ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.
My clothes, after
some time, will be
worn out, and then I
shall have none to
cover me.
When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
shall I remain without
any defence against
witcf men and beasts.
I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance
GOOD.
But yet I am pre-
served while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.
Yet set apart to
be spared from death.
And He, who has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.
However,. I have
food to eat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.
At present I enjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate is so hot, tbf!t
had I ever so many,
I should hardly wear
them.
Yet even thus, I ace
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast.
Is there not God to
converse with, and is
not he able to deliver
41
from. Some comfort theo?alreadyhasheaf-
would it be to resound forded thee sustenance,
my woes where I am and put it in thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where I till he sends thee a dej
might hope for relief, liverance;
And now, easing my mind a little by these
reflections, I began to render my life as easy
as possible
I must here add to the description I have
given of my habitation, that having raised a
turf wall against the outside of it, I thatched it
so close as might keep it from the iuclemency
of the weather; I also improved it within, en-
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me practi-
cable. When I wanted a plank or a board, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
fis thin 'with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of
time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me, being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which leaving for a while, and mo
tp the enjoyment of it, t shall give the reader an
-42. -
account of some parts of my journal from th«
day of my landing, till the settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
JOURNAL.
SEPTEMBER. 30th, 1(559, I, Robinson
Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was driven
on this desolate island, which I named the
'Desolate Island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallowed up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. That day I spent in conside-
ration of my unhappy circumstances, having
no prospect but of death, either to be starved
with hunger, or devoured by wild beasts of
merciless savages.
Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I
beheld the ship driven ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated, I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damaged,
because the ship remained upright. At this
time, I lamented the loss of my companions,
and our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When
J perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I
waded through the sands, as far as I could rind
depth, then swam aboard, the weather being
very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.
Oct. 5. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at
low water.
To the 14th of this month, my time was em,
ployed in making voyages every tide, (jottiu
43
what 1 could out of the ship. The weather
yery wet and uncertain.
Oct. 15. It blow hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went to pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather.
Oct. 16. I wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a roek in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were good tp eat, and in the af-
ternoon began to make me a table.
Nov. 4, I began to live regularly. In the
morning, I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; 1 then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. Extreme
sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return I perceived
many wild birds, and was terrified by sorhO
seals which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the
12th, but omitted the lllh, which according
Jo my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday."
44
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel
and wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to sup-
ply the place of the first, but with all my art
i could not make a wheel-barrow.
Nov. 19. It was a great happiness to me to
find a teee resembling what the Brazilians call
an Iron tree. I had like to spoil my axe with
cutting it, it being very hard, and exceedingly
heavy; yet with much labour and industry I
made a sort of spade out of it.
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allow-
ed for enlarging my cave, that it might serve
me, not only for a warehouse, but kitchen, par-
lour, and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent,
unless the weather was so rainy that I could
not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain sea-
sons, that I was obliged to cover all within
the pale, with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with
flags and large leaves of trees resembling a
thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habita-
tion finished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top broke in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me, before 1 could
make it firm and durable.
Dec. 17, I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang
every thing out of the way.
Dec. 20. I got every thing into its place,
they made a sort of dresser, and another table.
Dee. 27. I chanced to light upon gome goats,
shot one, wounded another; 1 led it home in a
string, bound up its log, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food
after my ammunition was spent..
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces-
sively hot, with little air, obliged me for the
.most part, to keep within doors.
Jan, 3. to 14. My employment this time
was to finish the wall befoie described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I brought them home, nursed them
till they eould fly, and then thej left me. Af-
ter this, I shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I spent vainly contriving to
make a cask, I may well say it was in vain,
because I could neither joint the staves, nor
fix the heads, so as to make it tight; so leav-
ing ihat, I took some goat's tallow I had by
me, and a little oakum for the wick, and pro-
yided myself with a lamp, which served instead
of candles. )
But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fowls; so
immediately resolving to put gunpowder into it,
I shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the consequence
c 5
46
fcrould be. The rain had fallen plentifully q.
few days before; and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every da^ as- it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of green
barley of the very same shape and make as that
in England.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this-sight. Hitherto I had been used,
like too many in the world, to look with in- -
difference upon the marks of God's goodness,
which are every where visible. Indeed so ig-
norant was I, that I had even thought health,
and food, and clothing to be the mere result
of our own labour and care and foresight,
without ever reflecting, that the Almighty is
the bestowcr of every good and' perfect gift,
and that it is his blessing alone upon our
efforts which makes them to prosper. The ap-
pearance of the bailey flourishing so unexpect-
edly in a barren soil, and my ignorance of the
manner in which it came there, led me into a
singular opinion. 1 concluded that miracles
were not ceased, and that God had appointed
the barley to grow there without any seed,
purely for my sustenance in this miserable and
desolate island. And indeed such great effect
had this upon me, that it often made me melt
into tears through a grateful sense of God's
mercies: and the greater still was my thankful-
ness, when I perceived about this little field of
barley, some rico stalks, also wonderfully-
(flourishing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island,
and therefore made a diligent search narrowly
among the rocks; but not being able to fin'd
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
and then so blind was my understanding, that
}ny admiration ceased, and with it my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as thinking it wot
but natural, and not to be conceived a mira-
cle: though even tho manner of its preserva-
tion might have made me own it a£ a wonder-
ful event of God's kind providence,
It was about the latter end of June when the
pars of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or 30 stalks pf rice,
expecting one day I should reap the fruit of
my labour: yet four years wero expired before
I could allow myself" to eat any barley bread;
and much longer time, before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and industry
for three or four montljs, at last 1 finished my
house, having no way to go into it, but by a
ladder against the wall. ... .(
April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascend-
ed it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down
on the other side, and descended into my new
habitation, where I had space enough, and was
50 fortified, that nothing could attack me with,
out scaling the walls.
But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does no.t crown
pur labours? Or who can stand before the
Almighty, when he stretcheth roith las arm?
48
For, one time when I was at the entrance of
my cave, there happened such a dreadful earth-
quake, that not only the roof of the cave came
tumbling about my ears, but the posts seemed to
crack terribly at the same time. This put me
in a great amazement; and running to the lad-
der and getting over the wall, I then plainly
knew it was an earthquake, the place I stood on
sustaining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when 1 saw
the top of a great rock roll into the sea: I then
expected the island would be swallowed tip
every moment: end what made the scene still
more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into
the most violent agitations and disorders by this
tremendous convulsion of rr&*ure.
For my part, I expected every moment to
be swallowed up. At the moving of the earth,
I was, as it were, sea-sick; and very much
afraid lest the rock, under wnich was my fence
and habitation, should overwhelm me and it in
a lasting tomb.
It was only the day after, when a horrible
tempest arose, at the same time attended with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue, aud in so violent a manner as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was suc-
ceeded by abundance of rain. When the tem-
pest was ever, I went to my tent; but the rain
coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification- to let
the water out. It continued raining all that
49
night, and some time the next day. These ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soon as the wca-
tlier cleared up, to build me a little but in some
open place, walled round to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but,
at the next earthquake, the mountain would
fall on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels; but to resume the thread of
my narration which this mention of the storm
has interrupted.
April 16—20. These days 1 spent, in con.
triving how and in what manner I should fix
my place of abode. All this while, I was un-
der the most dreadful apprehensions. When
1 looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its proper place. I had several de-
bates whether I should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I w as, till I found
out a convenient place where 1 might pitch my
tent.
April 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; but at last I found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string-
-April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.
May 1. As I walked along the sea shore, I
found a barrel of gun-powder, and several-
pieces of the wreck which the sea had flung
/
|tp. Having secured these, I made to the ship,
whose stern was torn off, and washed a great
distance ashore; but the rest lay in the sands,
This, I suppose, was occasioned by the earth-
quake. I now resqlved to keep my old place
of abode: and also to get to the ship th.at day,
but found it impossible.
May 3. This day I went on board the wreck,
which still remained upon its bed of rock,
though the waves had carried away all its upper
works and left nothing standing but the part
between dfcks, and with my saw sawed off one
of the beams,"which kept her quarter deck.—
J then cleared the sand till flood. - . ; -
May 4. I caught some fish, but they were
not wiiploiiuitie. The same day, I also caught
a young dolphin.
May 5. This day also I repaired to the wreck,
and sawed another piece of timber; and when
the flood came, I made a float of three great
planks, which wore driven ashore by the tide.
May (?—!). These day?, I brought off th
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron
crow, and carried two planks to laud, having
made a way into the very middle of the wreck.
May 10—14. All this time I spent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
.purpose to cut off some lead from the roll, but
all in vain, for it lay too low under water.
May 24. To this day, I worked on lh-e
wreck, and with great difficulty loosened some
things so much with the crow, that at the first
tide, several casks floated out, and SB-
#1
Sreral of the seamen's chests; yet that day no-
thing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some pork in it. 1 conlL
nued working to the 15th of June, (except
necessary tinvs for food and rest) and had I
known how to build a boat, I had timber and
planks enough; I had also nearly 100 weight
of sheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a. large tortoise or turtle, being
the first I had seen on the island, though, as I
afterwards found, there were many on the other
side of it.
June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her three score eggs- and her flesh the most
savoury and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
Juno 18. I staid within this day, there being
a continual rain; and it was somewhat more
chilly and cold than usual. r
June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a trem-
bling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed
to God more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy
in my mind.
June 23. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold
,and hot fits, succeeded by faint sweats.
Jane 20. Better, but very weak: yet I
f crumbled out, shot a she goat, brought
52
and broiled somo of it; I would willingly havu
stewed it, and made some broth, but had no
pot.
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with
an ague: thirsty, yet could not help myself to
water: prayed to God in these words; Lord
in pity, look upon me; Lord have mercy upon
me! have mercy upon me .' After this I fell
asleep, which, when 1 awakened, I found had
much refreshed me.
I rose up in a pensive manner,- being so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
luse tobacco for almost all diseases. I then
went to my chest, in order to find some, where
it was my happiness to find a cure, both for
soul and body; for there I found one of the
Bibles, which till this time, 1 had neither lei-
sure nor inclination to look into; I took both
the tobacco and that out of my chest, and laid
them on the table. Several experiments did
I try with the tobacco: First, I took a piece of
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupified me; next, I steeped it
in some rum an hour or two, resolving when
1 went to bed to take a dose of it: and in the
third place, I burnt some over a pan of fire,
holding my nose over it so long as I could
endure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy .and disturbed by the tobacco,
J took up the Bible to read. No sooner did I
open it, but there appeared to me the** words,
SB
Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou snalt glorify me-
At first, this sentence made a very deep im.
pression on my heart; l-.t it soon wore off again,
when I considered that the word deliver was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
Can God spread a table in the wilderness? In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this desolate island? How-
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco
had dozed my head, I was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, and implored the promise that God had
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that if I
called on him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me. With much difficulty, 1 afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the to-
bacco, which flying into my head, threw me
into such a profound sleep, that it was three
o'clock the next day before I awoke; or, rather,
I believe, I slept two days, having certainly lost
a day in my account, as I afterwards disco,
vered, and -1 could never tell any other way.—
When 'I got up, my spirits were lively and
cheerful: my stomach much better, being very
hungry; and, in short, no fit returned the next
day, which was the 29th, but I found myself
much altered for the better.
July 3. Tfie fit quite left me, but I was very
weak. Jn this condition, I often thought of
these words, 1 will deliver thee: and while at
54
limes I would tLink of the impossibility of it,
other.thoughts would reprehend me, for disre-
garding the deliverances I had received, even
trorn the most forlorn and distressed condition.
I asked myself, what regard have I had to God
for his abundant mercies? Have I done my
part? He has delivered me, but I have not
glorified him; as it' 1 had said, I had not
owned . and been thankful for these as deli-
verances, and how 'could 1 expect greater? So
much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness
in the most humble posture.
July 4. This rooming, I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa-
ment, resolving to read a chapter every mom-
ing and night, as long as rny thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this
J begged of God to assist me with his holy
-Spirit in returning to my duty. One day in pe-
rusing the Scripture, I came to these words,
Him hath God exalted ivilli his right hand la
be a Prince nnd a Saviour for to give repen-
tance and forgiveness of sins. Immediately
I laid down the bopk, and with uplifted hands
to Heaven, loudly cried, O hlfsseti Jesus, th itt
son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour, give me repentance: And, now in-
deed, I prajed with a true sense of my condi-
tion, and a more certain hope, founded on the
word of God. Now, I had a different sense of
Jhese words, Call on me, and I will deliver thee,
ss
iliat is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a soli-
tary life: in a word, I came to this conclusion,
that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessmg than a deliverance from affliction.
To the 14th July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness,
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it car-
ried off the fit, it very much weakened me; and
I had frequently convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time, From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially
\vhen it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health.
I had now been above nine months in the
island; and as I had never seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole
inonarch: and as I grew better, having secured
my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
p. ttmr round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
The 15th July, I began my journey; I first
went to the creek where I had brought my
rafts on shore, and travelling farther, found
the tide wept no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running wa-
ter, on the bank of which were many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, smooth, plam and co-
vered with grass. On the rising parts, where I
supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
deal 6f tobacco growing to a very strong
so
stalk. Several other plants I likewise found,
the virtues of which I did not undorstand. I
searched a long time for the Cassava root, which
1 knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not
what they were: likewise I saw several sugai-
canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
With these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.
The next day, being the 16th, going the
same way, but farther than the day before, I
found the country more adorned with woods
and trees. Here I perceived different fruits ia
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of gmpes, ripe and very
rich spread over the trees. You may imagino
Vwas glad of this discovery, yet ate very spar-
ingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or
fever. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which pre-
served them as dried raisins arc kept, they
proved very wholesome and nourishing, and
sery.ed me in those seasons when no grapes were
to be had.
The night .drawing on apace, I ascended a
tree, and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I had slept out of my habitation.
And when the morning came, I proceeded with
great pleasure on my way, travelling about four
miles, as I imagined, by the length of the vaj-
ley. At the end of this valley, I came to an
opening, where the country seemed to descend
I
57
to the west; there I found a spring of fresh
water, proceeding out of the side of the hill,
with its crystal streams running directly east.—
And indeed here my senses were charmed with
the most beautiful landscape nature could af-
ford; for the country appeared so flourishing,
green and delightful, that to me it seemed like
a planted garden. I then descended on the
side of that delicious vale, when I found abun-
dance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees,
but very wild and barren at that time. As for
the limes, they were delightful and wholesome,
the juice of which I afterwards used to mix in
water, which made it ve ry cool and refreshing.
And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
up a store of grapes, limas and lemons, against
the approaching wet sea ion. So laying them
up in separate parcels, and. then taking a few of
each with me, I returned to my little castle,
after having spent three days in this journey.
Before I got home, - the g tapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled: the limes in-
deed were good, but of those I could bring
only a few.
July 19-. Having prepared two bags, I return-
ed thither again, but to m y great surprise, found
all the grapes spread aboii.it, trodden to pieces,
and abundance eaten, w'tich made me conclude
there were wild beasts thereabouts. To pre-
vent this happening ag ain, I gathered a large
quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out branches of the tree, both to keep them
58
unhurt, and that they might curfc and! dry in
the sun: and having well loaded myself with
limes and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.
And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, it»
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adlacent woods, I concluded I was settled
in the worst part of the country, and therefore
was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when I considered again, that though it
was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side, where
there was a possibility, some time or other, a
ship might either be driven or sail by: and that
to inclose myself among hills und woods mast
certainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance;
I resolved to let my castle remain whei-e Pro-
vidence had first placed it. Yet, so delighted
was 1 with this place, that I made me a little
kind of bower, surrounding it, with a douMe
hedge as high as 1 could reach, well staked and
filled with bulrushes: and having spent a great
part of the month of July, I think it was the
1st of August before i began to eiijoy my
labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my gmpes to he dry, I
took them from the trtees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun; the most of
which 1 carried to my cave; and happy for we
1 did so, by which 1 saved tho best pait of my
winter food.
Aug. 14. This ds;f it hrg.-m to rain: and
though I had made rue a t.'nt like the other,
}etiia\hi£ no shelter o^ -!< hi<l to kc.-eir «-e li.on
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I
was obliged to return to my old castle; the
rain continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently
that I could not stir out of my cave for several
days. This season I fourd my family to in-
crease; for one of my cats that had run away
from me, and which I thought had been aead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro«
ceeded such numbers, that 1 was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it rained incessantly: when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times, 1 shot a goat, and af-
terwards found a very large tortoise. Tiui
manner of regulating my food was thus: a
bunch of raisins- served me tor my breakfast;
a piece of goat's fiesn or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my. sup-
per. While the rain lasted, I daily worked two
or three hours at enlarging ray cave, and by
degrees worked it on towards one side ot tlie
hill, and made a door way out, which came bej
yond my fence or wall, aud so i came in and
out this way. But after 1 had done this, 1 WHS
troubled to see myself thus exposed; though I
could not perceive anything to iear, a goat UP mg
the biggest creature i had seen upon this
Island.
^ 30. Casting up the notches on my
post, they amounted to 365, I concluded this
to be the anniversary of my landing; and there-
fore humbly prostrating myself on the ground,
confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgment upon me, and praying to him
to have mercy upon me, through Jesus Christ,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then eating a biscuit and a bunch
of grapes, laid me on a bed, and with great
comfort took my night's repose. Till this time,
though I had always put a larger notch than
ordinary for each sabbath day, to my shame, I
confess it, I had seldom observed it in any other
way. My ink failing soon after, I omitted in
my daily memorandum, things of an indifferent
nature, and contented myself to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life.—
The rainy and dry seasons appeared now re.
gular to me, and experience taught me how to
provide for them: yet in one thing I am going
to relate, my experience very much failed me.
You may call to mind, what I have mentioned
of some barley and rice which I had saved;
about thirty stalks of the former, and twenty
of the latter; and, at that time, the sun being
in its southern position, going from me, toge-
ther with the rains, made me conclude it a very
proper season to sow it. Accordingly I dug
up a piece of ground, with my wooden spade,
and dividing it into two parts, sowed about two
thirds of my seeds, preserving by me a handful
of each. And happy it was I did so; for no
61
rains falling, it was choked up, and never ap-
peared above the earth till the wet season came
again, and then part of it grew, as if it had
been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
my bower, I there sowed the rest of my seed
in February, which, by having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, yielded
a noble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out tho
proper seasons to sow it in, and that I might
expect every year two seed times and two bar.
vests, my stock amounted to above half a peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree 1 cut them from;
but they grew so regularly beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance, and so flou-
rished in three years time, that 1 resolved to
cut more of them, and these soon growing
made a glorious fence, as afterwards I shall
observe, . .
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into sum-
mer and winter, as in Europe, but into wet and
dry seasons, as in this manner:—
From C February 15? Rainy, sun coming near
To £ April 15, $ the'-Equinox, 2 months.
82
From C April 15, > Dry, sun getting north
To \Augmt 15, $ from the line, 4 montht
From C August 15, > W7*?/, the sun being then
To £ October 15, 5 co;/ae Sac/t, 2 months.
From C October 15, £ ^y, «w>' running south
To "^ February 15 5 o/' Me Awe, 4 .montAs.
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to blow.
But having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, i took ca.ro before hand to
furnish myself with provisions: and during the
wet months, sat within doors as much as pos-
sible. At this time, i contrived to nmke man/
handy things that I wanted, though it cost me
much labour and pains, before I could accom-
plish them. The first i tried was to make ;i
basket, but all the twigs I could get, proved so
brittle, that I could not then perform it. It now
proved of great use to me, that when a boy f
took great delight in standing at a basket-ma-
ker's, in the same town where my father lived,
to view them at work: like other boys, being
curious to see the manner of their working these
things, and very officious to assist, I perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing
but the tools. And it coming into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree of which 1 made my
stakes, might be as tough as a sallow willow, ot
osiers growing in England, I resolved to mako
an experiment, and went the next day to my
country seat, and found some tit for my turn;
and after cutting down a quantity with my;
63
hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and, when
fit to work .with, carried them to my cave, where
-I employed myself in making several sorts of
baskets, insomuch that 1 could put in what-
soever I pleased. It is true they were not cle-
verly made, yet they served my turn on all oc-
casions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two, al-
most fall of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: I
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this 1 afteswards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my se-
cond .row of stakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my in-
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
J began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, 1 came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, 1 fairly descried land, extending from
theW. to the S. W. about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded: but could not say whether it
was an island or a continent. Neither could I
tell what this,place might be: only thought it
was part of America, and where 1 might have
beep in a miserable condition had I landed,.—

Again, I considered, that if this was the Spa-
nish coast, certainly, one time or the other, I
should see some snips pass by, and if it was
not, then it must be the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazil, which abounds
with cannibals or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found Ihis side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made mo long for one to be my companion;
but it was with great difficulty 1 could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
borne some years, before I could get him to call
me by my name.
In the low grounds, I found various sorts of
hares and foxes, as I took them to be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. In
this journey, I did not travel above two miles
a day, because I took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries 1 could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place where I de-
signed to rest all night, which was either in a
a tree, or to a place which I surrounded with-
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly'.
surprize me. When I came to the sea-shore, |
was amazed to see the splendor of it. Its strand
was covered with shells of the most beautiful
65
fish, and constantly abounding with innumera.
ble turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
1 might have shot as many as I pleased, but
was sparing of my ammunition, rather choos-
ing to kill a she-goat, which I did with much
difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking-, that I did not repine at my
being seated on the worst part of the island.
1 continued my journey, travelling about 12
miles further towards the east, where i set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
tiiat my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.—
As I had a constant view of the country, I
thought 1 could not miss my way - but scarcely
had I travelled three miles, when 1 descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
bills covered with wood, that having no guide
hut the sun, and to add to my mistortune, tha
weather proving very hazy, I was obliged to
return to my post by the sea side, and so back-
wards the same way I came.: Jn this journey,
my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so-
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me,
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning; and having- made
es
a collar for this litl'a creature, with a string
made of rope yarn, I brought it to 017 bower,
and there inclosed and left him: and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I returned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my hammock. After my journey I
rested myself a week, which time I employed
in- making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor kid I had left in
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
iiome. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as before; but there was no occa-
sion, far it followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it became so loving, gentle,
and fond, that it commenced one of my domed-
tics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 30th of Septem-
ber, in the most solemn manner, as usual, it
being the second year of my abode in the island.
I spent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving thanks for making this soli-
tary life as agreeable, and less sinful, than that
of human society ;. and for the communication
of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in
the world to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more
happy I was, ia this state of life, than in that
6?
manner of living I formerly used; sometime*.
however when hunting, or viewing the country,
the anguish of my soul would break out upon
me, and my very heart would sink within me,
to think of the woods, the mountains, the de-
sorts I was in; and how I was a prisoner,
locked up within the eternal bars and bolts of
the ocean, in an uninhabited country, without
a hope of escape. In this condition 1 would
often wring my hands, and weep like a child;
and even sometimes in the middle of my work,
this fit of melancholy would often take me;
and then I would sit down and nigh, looking
on tbe ground for an hour or two together till
such time as my grief gut vent io a Hood of
tear*.
One morning, as I was fully employed in
this manner, I opened my Bible, and began to
read that chapter in which God promises to
Joshua, / will not fail thee nor forsake thee!
Surely, if God does not forsake me, what
matters It, since he can make me more happy
in this state of life, than if I enjoyed thu great-
est splendour in the world? And whenever I
opened or shut the Bible, I blest kind Provi-
dence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order,
and for assisting me to save it from the power
of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my se-
veral daily employments were these: Finl,
My duty to Heaven; and diligently reading the
holy Scriptures, which I did twice. or.thrice.
<58
»
every day: Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
teing at its height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out: so that I had but four hours in
the evening to work in: and then from the want
of tools, of assistance, and skill, spent a great
deal of time to little purpose: I was no less
than two and forty days, making a board fit
Jor a long shelf, which two sawyers with their
tools and saw-pit, would have cut out of the
same tree in half a day. It was of a large tree,
us my board was to be broad. I was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lop-
ping off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece
of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed off each
side, till it became light to move; then I turned
it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end, then turned it down-
wards, cutting the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth
on both sides. Any body may judge my great
labour and fatigue in such a piece of work:
\>nl this I went through with patience, as also
many other things, that my circumstances made
necessary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. But
96

here I met with a new misfortune, for die goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweotuoss of
the blade, kept it so short, that it had no
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot soine of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field gate, keeping barking
all night, so frightened these creatures, that I
got entirely rid of them.
But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared, to wit whole flocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly. and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwards served them
as they do notorious thieves in England and
Ireland, hung them up in chains as a terror
to others. And indeed, so good an effect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but
all that part of the island, so long as these
criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter
end of December, which was my second har-
vest, I reaped it with a scythe made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crop, it was so slender,. The ears I
carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain out
with my hands, instead of threshing it; and
when my harvest was over, found my half-peck
of seed had produced neatly two bushels of
rice, and two bushels and a half of barley.-
And now I plainly foresaw, that by God'* good-
ness, I should be furnished with bread; bat.
70
'•' '.'
yet I was concerned because I knew not how
to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, but re-
solved to preserve it against next season, and in
the mean while, use my best endeavours to
provide myself with other food.
But where were my labours to end? the
want of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel
to dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
spade. The want of a harrow I supplied by
dragging over the corn a great bough of a tree.
When it was growing, I was forced to fence it;
when ripe, to.mow it, carry it home, thresh it,
part it from the chaff, and save it. And, after
all, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve to dress
it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to bake it. This set my brains to work,
to find some expedient for every one of these
necessaries, against the next harvest,
And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months; by which time the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self; and while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, teaching him to
know and speak his own name Pall: the first
welcome word I had ever heard spoken in the
71
island. I had been a long time Contriving how
to make earthen vessels, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when I considered the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find
any such clay, I might botch up a pot, strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, such as
corn, meal, and otber things.
To be short, the clay, I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either
fell out or cracked, by the violent heat of the
sun, and fell in pieces when they were removed,
so that I think it was two months before I
could perfect any thing; and even then, but
two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jari
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full
of rice and barley straw; and these I pre-
sumed would hold my dried corn, and per.
haps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
As for the smaller things, I made them with
better success; such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking
them ve»y hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely ne-
cessary, and that was an earthen pot, not only
to hold my liquid, but also to boar the liro,
which none of these could do. It once Imp-
pened, that as I was putting out my fire, I
found therein a broken piec* of one of my
. 72
vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile,
this made me think of burning some pots;
and having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing
them with load, I fixed three large pipkins, and
two or three pots in a pile one upon another.
The tire I piled round the outside, and dry
wood on the top, till I saw the pots in the
inside red'hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them per-
fectly rod, I let them stand in the fire five or
six hours, till the clay melted by the extremity
of the heat, and would have run to glass had
I suffered it: upon which, I slacked my fire
by degrees, till the redness abated; and watch-
ing them till the morning, I found 1 had three
Very good pipkins, aud two earthen pots, as
well burnt and fit for my turn as I could desire.
The first use to which I turned my pipkins,
Was to make some salt, which I had long
wanted. For this purpose, I filled them with
sea-water, and kept it slowly boiling over the
fire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving at the bottom of the
vessel, a thin crust of salt which, I found
very good tor giving a relish to my food.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone-mortar to beat some corn in instead of
a laill to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a
great loss, as not being fit for a stone-cutter;
and many days I spent to find out a great
stone big enough to cut hollow and make it
fit for a mortar, and strong enough to b.ear tbe
weight of a pestle, that would break the corn'
73
i
without filling it with sand. But all the stones
of the island being of a mouldering nature,
rendered my search fruitless; and then I re-
solved to look out for a great block of hard
wood; which having found, I formed it with my
axe and hammer, and then, with infinite labour,
made a hollow in it, just as the Indians of
Brazil make their canoes. When I had finished
this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood; and
then laid them up- against my succeeding
harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve,
to sift my meal and part it from the bran and
husk. Having no fine thin canvass to search
the meal through, I could not tell what to do.
What tonen I had was reduced to rags: 1 had
goat's hair enough, but neither tools to work it,
_ nor did I know how to spin it. At length, 1
remembered T had some neck-cloths of calico
or muslin, of the sailors, which T had brought
ont of the ship, and wilh these,- 1 made tbjee
small sieves proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.—-
The want of an oven 1 supplied, by making
some earthen pans, very broad, but not deep
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great
-fire upon my hearth, (lie tiles of which, I hml.
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
it;to live coals. I spread them over it, till it bt-
c-ume very hot: then sweeping them awoy, I -
set down my Ibaves, and whelming down the
earthen pots upon them, drew the ashes and
coals ail (round the outside of the pot* to
B
74
tf
continue the heat; and in this manner, I baked
my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry-cook, and also made of the
rice, several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that all these things took me
tip the best part of the year, since wha^ inter-
mediate time I had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper season, I reaped my corn, carried if
home and laid it up in the ear, in my large bas-
kets, till I had time to rub, instead of threshing
it. And now indeed, rcy corn encreased sw
much, that it produced me twenty bushels of
barley, and as much of rice, so that I not only
began to use it freely, but was thinking how ta
enlarge my barns, and resolved to sow as mueh
"at a time as would be sufficient for a whole
year.
All this while, the prospeet of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the island, ran
in my mind. I still meditated a deliverance
from this piace, though the fear of greater mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the de-
vouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
npon that shore. I now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went
to the ship's boat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore in the late stoim. Slve
73
removed but a little; but her bottom being
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the
strength I had, and with levers and rollers
which I had cut from the wood, to turn her, and
repair the damages she bad sustained. This
work took mo up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to
undermining it, by digging away the sand, and
so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood
to thrust and guide it in the fall. But after
this was done, I was still unable to stir it up,
or to get under it, much less to move it for.
wards towards the water, and so I was forced
to give it over.
This -disappointment, however, did not
frighten me. I began to think, whether it was
not possible for me to make a canoe or Perigua,
such as the Indians make of the trunk of a
tree. But here I lay under particular inconve-
niences; want of tools to make it, and want of
hands to move it into the water when it was
tnade. However to work I went upon it, stop-
ping all the inquiries 1 could make, with this
rery simple answer I made to myself, let's first
make it, I'll warrant I'll find someway or other
to get it along when it is done.
I first cut down a cedar-tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
E 3
76
hewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in cut-
ting off the branches and limbs, and a whole
month in shaping it like the bottom of a boat.
As for the inside, I was three weeks with a
mallet and chisel, clearing it in such a manner
as that it was big enough to carry 26 men,
much bigger than any canoe I ever saw in my
life, and consequently sufficient to transport
me and all my effects to that wished for shore,
I so ardently desired.
- Nothing remained now, but, indeed, tho
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about 100 yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be-
tween this boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the surfacfi of tl:e
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, all the strength I had was as insuf-
ficient to move it, as it was when I lirst made
the attempt. I then proceeded to measure the
distance of ground, resolving to make a cana',
in order to bring the water to the canoe, since I
could not bring the canoe to the water. But
as this seemed to be impracticable- by myself"
alone, under the spac* of eleven or twelve year?,
it brought me into some sort of considemtion;
so that I concluded this also to be impossible,
and the attempt vain. I now saw, and not b<-
fore, what stupidity it is to begin work befoie
wo reckon its cost, or judge rightly our own
abilities to go through with its performance.
In the height of this work, my fourth year
expired from the time I was cast on this island,
77
At this time I did not forget my anniversary,
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing 1 had nothing
to do with; and very well might I say, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, Between me
and thee there is a gulph fixed. And indeed
1 was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh; the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; I had nothing to co-
vet, being lord, king and emperor over the
whole country I h.ad in possession, without dis-
pute and without controul; I had loadings of
corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the
rest to me? the money I had, lay by me- as
despicable dross, which I would freely have
given for a gross of tobacco pipes, or a hand-
mill to grind my corn; in a word, the nature
mid experience of these things dictated to me
this just reflection; that the good things of
this world are no further good to us, than as
they are for our use; and that whatever we
may heap up, we can but enjoy as much as we
use, and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I
did it with thankfulness, admiring the provi-
dential hand of God, who in this wilderness
Lad spread a table to me. And now I consi-
dered what I enjoyed, rather than what I want-
ed; compared my present condition with what
I at first expected it should be; how I should
E.T
78
have done, if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before I had caught
fish or turtles; or lived, had I found them, like
a mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling'
them to pieces with my claws, like a beast.—
I next compared my station to that which I
deserted; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents; how destitute of the fear of God; how
void of every thing that was good; and how-
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by
a miracle, even as great Elijah was fed by
ravens; and cast on a place where there are no
venomous creatures to poison or devour me; in
short, making God's tender mercies matter of
great consolation, I relinquished all sadness,
and gave way to contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with
water I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on whick
any remarkable thing happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink,
was the biscuit, which 1 had brought out of
the ship; and though I allowed myself but ona
cake a day for above a twelvemonth, yet I was
quite out of bread for nearly a year, before I
got any corn of my own.
In the next place my clothes began to dci-
cay, aniJ my linen had been gone long before.
However, 1 had preserved about three dozen
of the sailors' chequered shirts, which proved-
a great refreshment to me, when the violent
beams of the sun would not suffer mo to bear
any «f the seamen's heavy watch-coat*; which
inada me turn tailor, and, after a miserable
notching manner, convert them into jackets. To
preserve my head, I made a cap of goat-skins,
with the hair outwards to keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so well, that afterwards
I made a waistcoat and open knaed breeches
of the same: And then I contrived a sort of
umbrella, covering it with skins, which not
only kept out the heat of the sun, but the rain
alto. Thus being easy and settled in my mind,
my chief happiness was to converse with God,
in the most heavenly and comfortable ejacula-
tions.
For five years after this, I cannot say any
extraordinary thing occurred to me. My chief
.employment was to cure my raisins, and plant
ray barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before hand. But though I
was dissappointed in my first canoe, I made it
At intermediate iirn.es, my business to make a
second of much inferior size; and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as f per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design of
sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to sea
what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the water
and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a
little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
•hip's sails that lay by me, I then made Iocke»
or koxss at the end of it, to put .in Becessariei
E 4
/ ( 80
provision and ammunition, which would pre-
serve them dry either from the rain, or the
spray ot the sea; and in the inside of the boat,
I cut me a long hollow place to lay my gun,
and to keep it dry, made a cover for it. My
umbrella, 1 fixed in a step m the stenvlike a
mast, to keep off the heat of the sun. And
now resolving to see the circumference of my
little kingdom, I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my barley
bread loaves, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, d little bottle of rum, half a goat, powder
and ,shot, and two watch-coats. It was the 6th
of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or
captivity, that I set out on this voyage; which
was much longer thanj expected, being obliged
Jo put farther out, by reason of the rocks that
lay a great way in the sea.
And indeed, so much did these rocks sur- -
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing
that if 1 ventured farther, it would bo out of
my power to return; in this uncertainty I came
to anchor just off the shore, to which 1 waded
frith my gun on my shoulder, and then climb-
ing up a hill, which overlooked that point, I
saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run
all hazards.
ID this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
close to the point; which t the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when
I came to it, I might be driven into the sea by
81
its force, and not able to return to the island;
and certainly it must have been so, had 1 not
made this observation; for on the other side
was the like current, with this difference, that
it set off at a greater distance; and 1 perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land: so
that my chief business was to work out of the
first current, and conveniently get into the eddy.
Two days I staid here, the wind blowing very
briskly E. !S. E. which being contrary to the
current, leaves a great breach of the sea upon
tiio point; so it was neither lit for me to keep
too near the shore, on account of the breach;
nor stand at too great a distance for fear of the
streams. That night the wind abating, it grew
so calm, that 1 ventured out; and here I may
be a monument to all rash and ignorant pilots;
.tor i was no sooner come to the point, and not
above the boat's length from shore, but 1 was
got into a deep water, with a current like a
null-race, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, being forced more and
more out from the eddy to the left of me; and
all 1 could do with my paddles was useless,
there being no wind to help me.
Now 1 began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, 1 was very certain they must join
again, and then 1 had no hopes but of .perish-
ing for want in the sea, alter what provision I
., ;-...<,.- '»--' -V •-• -.
E 5
82
Imd was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? with longing eyes did
I look upon my little kingdom, and thought the
island the pleasantest place in the universe.—
Happy, thrice happy desert, said I, shall I
never see thee more? Wretched creature!
whither am I going? Why did I murmur
at my lonesome condition, when now I would
give tbe whole world to be thither again?
While I was thus complaining, I found myself
to be driven about two leagues into the sea:
however, I laboured till my strength was far
spent, to keep my boat as far north as pos-
sibly I could, to that side of the current, whore
the eddy lay. About noon 1 perceived a lit-
tle breeze of wind spring up from the S. S. K.
which overjoyed my heait; and was still more
elated, when in ahout half an hour, it blew
a gentle line galo. Had any thick weather
sprung up, I had been lost another way; for
having no compass on hoard, 1 should never
have found the way to steer towards the island,
if once it had disappeared; but it proving
the contrary, I set up my mast again- spread
my sail, and stood away northward, as much
as I could, to get rid of the current. And
no sooner did the boat begin to stretch away,
but 1 perceived, by the clearness of the water,
a change of the current was near; for, whero
it was strong, the water was foul; and where
it was clear, the current abated.
m
i _ .
Those who have been in the like calamities
y/ith my own, may guess ray present excess of
joy, how heartily 1 ran my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread rrly
pail to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully
before it, with a smart tide under foot. By the
assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a
league home again, when being in the wake of
the island, between the two currents, 1 found
the water to be in a sort of stand. About
four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within
a league of the island, and perceived the
points of the rock, which caused this disaster,
stretching out, as I observed before, -to tho
southward, which throwing off the current
more southerly, had occasioned another eddy-
to the north. But having a fair brisk galo,
J stretched across this eddy, and in an hour
came within a mile of the shore, where 1 soon
landed: to my unspeakable comfort; and af-
ter an humble prostration, thanking God for
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid ma down to tako
a. welcome repose. When I awoke-, I was
ponsideriug how I might get my boat home;
and coasting-along the shore, I came to a good
bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brook, where,
finding a harbour, I stowed her as safe a*-
if she had been in a dry dock, made on pur-'"'
pose for her.
I now perceived myself not far frorn tlrt -
place, where before I had travelled on foot; s»
84
iakihg nothing wrlh'me, except my gun and um-
brella, I began my journey, and in the even-
ing came to my bower, where I again laid mo
do^wn to rest. 1 had not slept long before I
wakened in great surprize, by a strange voice
that called me several times, Robin, Robin,'
Robi/tso* Crusoe, poor Robin! Where are
you, Rolinso/i Crusoe? Where are you?
Where have you been?
So fast was I asleep, that at first I did not
wake thoroughly; but half asleep and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
*poke to me. But as the voice repeated, Ro-
hinson Crusoe, several times, being terribly
frightened, I started up in the utmost confusion;
•ml, /io sooner were my eyes fully open, but I
Wneld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of tho
hedgf, and soon knew that it was he that called
me; for just in such bewailing language, I
used to talk and teach him; which he so exact-
ly learned, that he would sit upon my linger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
Poor Rnbinson Crusoe, where are you ?—
where havti you been ? Itotv came you here?
and such like prattle 1 had constantly taugit
hjm. But even though I knew it to be the
parrot, it was a long time before I could ad-
lust myself; being amazed .how the creature
got thither, and that he should fix about that
place, and no where «lse. l^ut.now, being
assured it could be no other than my honest
Poll, my wonder ceased, and reaching out my"
Laud, and calling Poll, the creature came to - -
85
.
me familiarly, and perched upon my thumb,
as ho was wont, constantly prating to me with
Poor Robinson Crusoe, and how did I come
here, and where had I been? as if the bjfd
was overjoyed to see me; and so I took him
home along with me. I was now pretty well
cured of rambling to sea; yet I could wish
my boat which had cost me so much trouble
and pains, on this side of the island once more,
but this, indeed, was impracticable. I there-
fore began to lead a very retired life, living
nearly a twelvemonth in a very contented man-
ner, wanting lor nothing but conversation.—
As to mechanic labours, which my necessi-
ties obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon oc-
casion, make a tolerable caqienter, were the
poor tools I had to work withal, but good.—
Besides, as I improved in my earthen ware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly.—
But, 1 think I never was so elevated with my
own performance or project, as when able to
make a tobacco pipe, which though it proved
an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
sound, and carried the smoke perfectly well,
to my great satisfaction. .11
I also improved my wicker ware, made me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for
holding my stores, barley, rice, and other pro-
visions, '-' -...-.. 1 '-- .C-'JI
8«
My powder beginning to fail, made m*
examine after wlmt manner I should kill the
goats or birds, to live on, after it was all gone.
Uijpn which, I contrived many ways to ensnare
the goats, and see if 1 could catch thcm alive,
particularly a she-goat \yilh young.
At last I had my desire; for making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I
found one morning in one of them, an old he-
goat, and in the other, three kids, one male,
ihe other two, females.
.So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old
proverb, That hunger ivill tame a lion: For,
had 1 kept him three or four days without pro-
visions, and then given him some wntor, with
a little corn, he would have been as tame as a
young kid. The other creatures 1 hound with
strings together; but I had great difficulty bcr
fore I could bring them to my habitation. It
was some time before they would feed; but
throwing them sweet corn, it so much tempted
them, tiiat they began to be tamer. From
hence I concluded, that if I designed to furnish_
myself with goat's flesh, when my ammunition
was spent, the tamely breeding them up, like
u flock of sheep, about my settlement, was the
only method I could take. I concluded also
I must separate the wild from the tamo, or -
clso they would always run wild as they-
grew up; and the best way for this, was to
have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with a hedge or pale, to keep
87
tlicm so effectually, that those within might
not 1'reak out, nor those without break in.—
Such an undertaking was very great for one
pair of hands; but as there was an absolute
necessity for doing it, my first care was to find
a convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage tor them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexperience, pitching upon a
iiicce of meadow-land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge or pale must have been
at least two miles anout. This thought came
into my head, after I had carried it on, I be-
lieve, about fifty yards; I therefore altored my
scheme^ and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground, about 150 yards in length, and 100 in
breadth, large enough for as many as would
inainlain me, till such time as my flock in-
creased, and then I could add more ground.
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and it
took me about three months in hedging the
first piece; in which time, I tethered the three
kids in the best part ol it; feeding them as
near me as possible, to make them familiar;
and, indeed, I very often would carry some
oars of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand, by which they grew
so tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
and I had let them loose, they would run
after me for a handful of corn. .This indeed
answered my end; and in a year and a half's
Vime, I tyad a flock of about twelve gwtev-.,
88
kids and all; and in two years after, they
amounted to forty-three, besides what I had
killed for my sustenance.
After which, I inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them as 1 had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which in tbe beginning, I
did not so much as think of, And, indood,
though I had never milked a cow, much loss &
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet aftor
some essays and miscarriages, 1 made me both,
and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their graatost
calamities? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; what a bounteous table was
here spread in a wilderness for me, where I ex-
pected nothing at first, but to perish for hunger.
Certainly any one would have smiled to sec-
mo at dinner. There sat my royal majesty; an
absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom, at-
tended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if I
pleased, I could either punish or reward, givo
them liberty or take it away. When I dinod,
I seemed a kins;, eating alone, none daring to
presume to tlo so till 1 had done. Poll, as if ho
had been my principal'court favourite, was tho
only-person permitted to talk with me. My old
bnbfekhfut dog, now grown exceedingly'I'rtfzy,
continually sat On my Bright hand; while ray
two cats sat on each side of the table, expect-
ing a bit from my hand, as a principal mark of
my royal favour. These were noi tfcc cats I
had brought from the ship; they had been dead
long before, and interred near my habitation by
mine own hand. But a couple of their young I
had made tame; the rest ran wild into the woods,
and in time grew so impudent, as to return and
* plunder me of my stores, till such/time as I shot
a great many, and the rest left me without troub-
ling me any more. In this plentiful manner did
I live, wanting for nothing but conversation.—
One thing indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat; 1 knew not which way to got her round the
island. One time I resolved to go along the shore
by land to her; but had any one at home met
such a lignre, it would either have affrighted them
or made them burst into laughter; nay, I could
not but smile myself at my habit, which I think
in this place it will be very proper to describe. '-
The cap 1 wore upon my head, was great,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, witli
a flap or pent-house hanging down behind, not
only to keep the sun from me, but to shoot the
rain off from running into my neck, nothing
being more pernicious than the rain falling upon
the flesh in these climates. I had a short jacket
of goat's skin, whose hair hung down such/a
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I knew not what to call them; they
were made like buskins, and laoed!on the sida
90 .
like spatterdashes, barbarously shaped, like tha
rest of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's
skin dried, girt round me witha couple of thongs,
instead of buckles; on each of which, to sup-
ply the deficiency of sword and dagger, hung"
my hatchet and saw. I had another belt not
so broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, end at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches made o*
goat's skin, to hold my powder and shot. My
basket, I carried on my back, and my gun on
my shoulder; and over my head, a great clum-
sy ugly goat's skin umbrella, which, however,
next to my gun, was the most necessary thing
about me. As for my face, the colour was not
so swarthy as the Mulattoos, or as might have
been expected from one who took so little cara
of it, in a climate within nine or ten degrees of
the Line. At one time, my beard grew so long
that it hung down above a quarter of a yard;
but as I had both razors and scissars in store, I
cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except
& large pair of whiskers, the like of which I had
seen wprn by some Turks at Salee, not long
enough indeed to hang a hat upon, but of such
a monstrous size, as completely to alter my ap-
pearanco.
Hut all this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit.
And so, without fear and without- controul, I
proceeded on my journey, the prosecution of
which took me up five or six days. I travelled
along the sea shore, directly to the place where
91
I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
upon the rocks; but now having no boat to
take care of, I went over-land, a nearer way to
the same height that I was before upon; when
looking forward to the point of the rock, which
lay out, and which I was forced to double with
iay boat, I was amazed to see the sea so smooth
.aud quiet, there being no rippling motion, nor
-current, any more than in other places. And
now 1 was convinced, that by observing the
ebb and flow of the tide, 1 might easily bring
my boat round the island again. But when I
began to think of putting it in practice, the re-
membrance of the late danger, struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution,
though more laborious; and this was to make
a second canoe, and so have one for one side of
Ihe island, and one for the other.
I had now two plantations in the island ; the
first, my little fortification, fort, or castle, with
»iany large and spacious improvements; for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind ruo
with several little caves, one within another- to
told my baskets, corn and straw. The piles
with which I made my wall were grown so
lofty and great, as to obscure my habitation.—
And near this commodious and pleasant settle-
ment, lay my well cultivated and improved corn
iields, which kindly yielded me their fruit in the
proper season. My second plantation was that
near my country-seat, or little bower, where my
grapes flourished, and where having planted
rny stakes, I made inclosures for my goats, so
strongly fortified by labour and time, that it was
much stronger than a wall, and, consequently,
impossible for them to break through. As for -
itiy bower itself, I kept it constantly in repnir,
and cut the trees in such a manner, as made
them grow wild, and form a most delightful
shade. In the centre of this, stood my tent,
thus erected. I had driven four piles in tho
ground, spreading over it a piece ot the shin's
sail: beneath which; I made me a sort of couch
with tho skins of th'e creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of
the sailor's blankets, which I bad saved from
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself with
a great watch coat, I took up this place for my
country retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement, did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And, sometimes, would I venture in her
a cast or two from shore but no farther. But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising
scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be moro
umazing than to see a human creature. Ono
day iCjiappened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels, and
every part of it. Had I seen a monster of tbo
most frightful shape, 1 could not have been morw
confounded. My willing ears gavo the strictest
attention. I- cast my-eyes around, but could

RourxsON CRUSOE startled at thq .print
of a man's foot in the sai:d.
94
satisfy neither thex one nor ihe other. I pros-
ceedcd alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could I see any
other mark, though the sand about it was as
susceptible to take impression, as that which was
so plainly stamped. Thus, struck with confu-
sion and honor, I returned to my habitation,
frightened at every bush and tree, taking every
thing for men; and possessed with the wildest
ideas! That night my eyes never closed. I
formed nothing but the most dismal imagina-
tions. In a word, all my religious hopes va-
nishetl, as though I thought God would not
now protect me by his power, who had won-
derfully preserved me so long.
What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our af-
fections, according to different circumstances?
- We love to day, what we hate to-morrow: wa
shun one hour what we seek the next. This was
'evident in me in the most conspicuous manner;
for I, - who before had so much lamented my
condition, in being banished from all human
kind, was now ready to expire when I consi-
dered that a man had set his foot on this deso.
late island. But when I considered my»station
of life, that it was allotted to me by the infinitely
-wise and good providence of God, that I ought
not to dispute my Creator's sovereignty,' who
had an undoubted right to govern and dispose of
his creatures as he thinks convenient; and that
his justice and mercy could either punish or de-
liver me: I say, whsn I considered all thU, f
96
comfortably found it my duty to trust sincerely
in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly re-
sign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sabred writings came into my mind, (Jail
vpon me in the day of trouble, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
bed, I offered up my prayers in the most devout
manner: and when I had done, taking up my
bible to read, these words appeared in uiy sight;
Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen thy heart; Wait, 1 say,
on the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon that
occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears, for three days and night*, I at last von.
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats,
one of which was almost spoiled for want of it.
I next (though in great fear,) visited my bower,
and milked my flocks there also; when, grow- -
ing bolder, I went down to the shore ugain, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to see
perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in large.
Hess; and so returned home, absolutely con-
vinced, that either some men had been ashore,
or that the island must be inhabited; and, there -
fore, that I might be surprised before I was
aware.
I now began to think of providing for my
security, and revolved in my mind many
- different schemes for that purpose. I first pro-
posed to cut down my enclosures, and turn my
tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy
might not find them, and frequent the island in
hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was for
digging up my corn fields for the very same
reason. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish
my bower, lest seeing a place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find out,
and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I consideied, that this
delightful and pleasant island might not be so
entirely forsaken as I might think; but that the
inhabitants from the other shore might sail,
either with design, or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the tirxt
opportunity. However, my fear made me think
of a place of retreat upon an attack. I now
repented that I had made my door to come out
beyond my fortification; to remedy which, I
- resolved to make rue a second one; I fell to
work, therefore, and drove betwixt that double
row of trees, which I planted above twelve years
before, several strong pilos, thickening it with
pieces of liruberand old cables, and strengthen-
ing the foot of it with earth whicli;I dug out of
my cave; I also made me seven holes, wherein
1 planted noy muskets like cannon, fitting them
Into frames resembling carriages. This being
finished with indefatigable industry, for a great
way every where, I planted sticks of osier like
a wood about twenty thousand of them, leaving
a large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and that
they might not be sheltered among the young
trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.
And indeed, scarcely two years had passed over
ray head, when there appeared a lovely shady
.grove, and in six years, it became a thick wood,
perfectly impassable. For my" safety, I left no
avenue to go in or out; instead of wbich, 1 set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
flace another ladder upon that; so that when
took those down, it was impossible for any
man to descend without hurting himself; and
if they had, they would still be at the outside
of my outer wall, But while I took all these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preserve my stock of tame-
goats, that tlie enemy should not take all at
once, I looked out for the most retired part of
the island, which was the place where 1 had
lost myself before mentioned, and there find-
ing a clear piece of land, containing three
acres, surrounded with thick woods, I wrought
so hard, that in less than a month's time, I
fenced it so well round, that my flocks were
Very well secured in it, and I put therein two
he-goats, and ten she ones.
All this labour was occasioned purely by
fearful apprehensions, on account of seeing the
print of a man's foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards the west part of the island, where
I might also retain another flock. Then wan-
dering on this errand more to the west of the
island than ever I had yet done, and casting my
eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived a
hoat at a great distance: but could not possibly
tell what it was for want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see
the print of a man's foot; and concluding them
cannibals, blessed God for being cast on the
other side of the island, where none of the-
savages, as I thought ever came. But when I
came down the hill to the shore, which was the
S. W. point of the island, I was soon confirm-
ed in my opinion; nor can any one describe
my horror and amazement, when I saw the
ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
bones of human bodies; and particularly, T
perceived a space like a circle, in ihe midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjec-
tured those wretches sat, and unnaturally sa-
crificed and devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
marie me discharge from my stomach in an ex-
cessive manner. 1 then returned towards my
99
habitation; and in my way thither, shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here,
had assured me, that the savages never came'
up to the thick woody part of the country, and
that I had no reason to he apprehensive of a
discovery, yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that, for two years after, I confmed my-
•elf only to my three plantations; I mean my
castle, country seat, and enclosure in the woods,
though in process of time, my dreadful appre,
hensions began to wear away.
Thus my circumstances for somo time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed; though in-
deed, the terror \vhich the savages had put me
in, spoiled some inventions for my own conve-
nience. One of my projects was to brew me
some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it was considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could J make any to preserve it in;
neither had I hops to make it keep: yeast to
make it work, nor a copper nor kettle to make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I
might bring this to boar, as I had done other
things. But now my inventions were placed
another way; and day and night I could think
cf nothing but hovy I might destroy some of
these cannibals, when proceeding to their bloody
entertainments; and so saving a victim from
100
being sacrificed, that he might afterwards bccoma
my servant. Many were my contrivances for
this purpose, and m.-wy more objections occur-
red, after I had hatched them. I once contrived
to dig a hole under the place where they made
their fire, and put therein five or six pounds of
powder, which would consequently blow up
all those that were near it; but then I was loth
to spend so much upon them, lest it should not
do that certain execution I desired, and only
affright and not kill them. Having laid this de-
sign aside, I again proposed to myself to lie pri,
vately in ambush in some convenient place, with
my three guns double loaded, and let fly at them
in the midst of their dreadful ceremony: and
having killed two or three of them at every shot,
fall upon the rest suddenly with my three pisr
tols, and let not one of them escape. This plan
appeared to me so practicable that I used to
dream of it in the night time. To put my de-
sign in execution, I was not long seeking for'a
-place convenient for my purpose, where unseen
I might behold every action of the savages.—
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which
was loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or
five smallsr bullets about the size of pistol bul-
lets; the fowling piece was charged with nearly
a handful of the largest swan shot, and in every
pistol about four bullets. And thus all things
being prepared, no sooner did the welcome light
spread over the element, but I would issue forth;
from my castle, and from a lofty hill, three
miles distant, try if I could soc any invaders
101
approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But hay-
ing waited in vain two or three months, it grew
very tiresome to me.
1 now argued with myself, it was better for
me never to attack, but to remain undiscovered
as long as I possibly could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive; for
as it was scarcely to be supposed 1 could kill
them all, I might either be overpowered by the
remaining, or that some escapmg might bring
thousands to my certain destruction. And, iii-
d-eed, religion took their part so much as to con-
vince me how contrary it was to my duty, to be
guilty of shedding human blood, innocent as to
me in particular, whatever they are to one ano-
ther; that I had nothing to do with it, but leave
it to tho God of all power and dominion, as I
said before, to do therein what seemed conve.
nient to his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore,
on my knees I thanked the Almighty for deli-
vering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged his
protection that I might never fall into their
hands.
Tllus giving over an attempt which F had
rashly begun, 1 never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterwards; I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thing that belonged to her, towards the
cast, into a little cove, that there might not be
the least shadow of any boat near, nor habita-
tion upon the island. My castle then became
F 3
102
my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, or my
little flock in the wood, which was quite out of
danger; for sure I was, that these savages ne-
ver came here with expectation to find any
thing, and consequently never wandered from
the coast; however, as they might have several
times been on shore, as well before as at'tor my
dreadful apprehensions, I looked hack with,
horror to think in what state 1 might have bean,
had I suddenly met them, slenderly armed, with.
one gun only loaded with small shot; and how
groat would have been my amazement, if, in-;
stead of seeing the print of one man's foot, I
bad perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who
having onco set their eves upon me, by the
swiftness of their feet, would have left me no
possibility of escaping? These thoughts won Id
sink my very soul, so that I would full into a
deep melancholy, till such time as the consi-
deration of my gratitude to the divine Being,
moved it from my heart. I then fell into a con-
templation of the secret springs of Providence;
and how wonderfully w» are delivered, when
insensible of it; and when in uncertain mazes
or labyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what se-
cret hint directs us in the right way, when wo
intended logo out of it; nay, perhaps contrary
to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future invention*
and contrivances, either for accommodation,, or
103
convenience. I now cared not to drive a nail,
chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
cither the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover roe, And on this account I used to
burn my earthen ware privatelyin a cave, which
1 found in the wood, and which 1 made conve-
nient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might bake and dress my bread aitd meat
without any danger.'
At that time, a curious accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.
While 1 was cutting down zomo wood, for
rnaking rny charcoal, I perceived a cavity be.-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cn,-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it suffliciant for me to stand upright
in.
But when I had entered, having crept, upon
my hands and feet through this straity I found.
the roof higher up, I think about twenty feet.
But surely never had 1 seen such a glorious -
sight before: the roof and \valls of this cavo
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from
m v two candles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed it was the most delight^
ful cavity or grotto of its kind that could be
desired, though entirely dark. The floor was
dry and level, and had a kind of gravel upon
it; no nauseous venemous creatures to be seen
there, neither any damp or wet about it. I could'
find no fault but in the entrance, and I
'104
to think, that even Ihis might be very necessary
for r»y defence, and thereibre resolved to make
it my principal magazine. I brought hither two
fowling pieces, and three muskets, leaving only
five pieces at my castle, planted in the nature
of cannon. In a barrel of gun-powder, which
1 took out of the sea, I brought away about
sixty pounds of good powder, which was not
damaged; and this, with a great quantity of
lead for bullets, I removed Irom my eastle to
this retreat, now fortified both by art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the giants
of old, who were said to live in caves and holes
among the rocks, inaccessible to any but them-
selves, or at least, most dangerous to attempt.
And now I defied both the cunning and strength
of the savages, either to find me out, or to hurt
me.
1 think I was now in the twenty-third year
of my reign, and my thoughts much easier than
formerly, having contrived several pretty amuse-
ments and diversions to pass away the time in
a pleasant manner. By this time, my pretty
Poll had learned to speak English, and pro-
nounce his words very articulately and plain;
so that for many hours we used to chat together
after a very familiar manner, and he lived no
less than twenty-six years. My dog, which
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which he
lived with me, had died some time ago, of mere
old age. As for my cats, they multiplied so fast,
that 1 was forced to kill or drive them into the
woods, except two or three which became my
105
particular favourites. Besides these. I conti-
nually kept two or three household- kids about,
me, which I taught to feed out of my hand/
and two more parrots which could talk indif-
ferently, and could call Robinson Crusoe, but not
so excellently as the first, by my not taking so
much pains with them. I had also several sea-
fowls which I had wounded and cut their wings;-
these growing tante, used to breed among tho
low trees about my castle walls, all of which
made my abode very agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of lite,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, and the particular time
jn my harvest, which required niy attendances
in the fields; when going out pre-tty early in
the morning, before it was daylight, there ap-
peared to me from- the sea shore, a flaming
light, about two miles from me at the east end
of the island, where I had observed KOIUO sa-
vages had been before, not on the other side,
but to my great affliction it was on my side of"
the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look HS wild and natural as 1 possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in o
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and pis-
tpls, and committing myself to God's protou-
Jion, I resolved to defend myself till my las,t
106
oreath. Two hours after, impatient for intelli-
gence, I Bet my ladder up to the side of the
hill, where there was aflat place, and then pul-
ling the ladder after me, ascended to the top,
where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass 1 perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eating
as I supposed, human flesh, with theirtwo canoes
hauled on shore, waiting for the flood to carry
them off again. The consternation I was in
at this sight, especially seeing them near mo,
was very great; but when I perceived their
coming must be always with the current of the
ebb, 1 became more easy in my thoughts, be-
ing fully convinced, that I might go abroad
with security all the time of the flood, if they
were not before landed. And indeed, this proved
just as I imagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made
N. W. When I saw them gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and placing a couple
of pistols in my belt, with my great sword hang-
ing by my side, I went to the hill, where at
first I made a discovery of these cannibals, and
then saw there had been three canoes more of
the savages on shore at that place, which with
the rost were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
tho bones, and other mangled parts of hu-
man bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired
was I with indignation, that I was fully resolved
to use my fire arms in endeavouring to cheek
107
their cruel practices, though I lost my life m the
fxecution. It then appeared to me, that tbe
Visits which they make to this island are not
very frequent, it being fifteen months before
ihoy came again; but still I was very uneasy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions of their
surprising md unawares: nor dared I offer to
fire a ijun on that side of the island, where
they used to appear, lest taking the alarm,
they might return with many hundred canoes^
and then, God only knows in what manner
I should have made my end. Thus was I a
year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But, to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while diverted
my thoughts from these cannibals.
On'the 16th of May (according to my
wooden calendar) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied "With abundance of thunder
and lightning all day, and succeeded by a very
stormy night. I had gone to bed at my usual
time, but fmding it impossible to sleep, I arose
and having stirred up the embers of my lire,
sat down to my Bible. Whilst I was seriously
pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
with the noise of a gun, which I conjectured
was fired upon the ocean. Such an unusual
surprise made me start' up in a minute; when,
with my ladder ascending the monntain as be.
fore, that very" moment, a flash of fire pre-
suged the report of another gun, which I pre-
sently heard/ and found it was from the part of
108
the sea wliere the current drove me away, I
cotrid not but then think, that this must be a
ship in distress, and that these were the melan-
choly signals for a speedy deliverance. Great,
indeed, w-as my sorrow upon this occasion; but
my labours to assist them must have proved al-
together vain and fruitless. However, I brought
together all the dry wood that was at hand, anil
'making a pretty large pile, set it on fire on the
hill. I was certain they plainly perceived it,
by their firing another gun as soon as it began
to blaze, and after that, several more from the
same quarter. All night long, I kept up my
fire; and when the air cleared up, I perceived
something a great way at sea, directly E. but
could not distinguish what it was, even with.
Boy glass, the weather being so very foggy out
-at sea. However, keeping my eyes directly
.fixed upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, i
presently concluded it must be a ship at an-
chor, and so very hasty was I to be satisfied,-
that, taking my gun, I went to the S. W. part
of the island, to the same rocks where I had-
been formerly driven away by the current; in-
which time the weather being perfectly cleared
up, to my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck
of a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks I
had found when 1 was out wkh my boat; and
•which, by making a kind of eddy, were the
occasion of rny preservation.
\Vhen I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, and could perceive no
10*
fooni to suppose any of thom saved, t cannot
explain, by aey possible force of words, what
longings my soul felt on this occasion, often -
breaking out in this manner. O that there
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, aud comforted one another,
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated these words, "Oh! that
x "there had been but one!" my hands would
\clencb, together, and my fingers press the
palms of my hands so close, that, had any
-/soft thing boon between, they would have crush-
ed it, while my teeth would strike together,
and set agahist each other so strong, that it
required some time for me to part them.
Till the last year-of my being- on this island,
I never knew whether or not any one had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction,
some time alter, to see the corpse of a drowned
boy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of'open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of. In his pocket were two
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, the last
of which ( preferred much more than I did tho
first. And now the calmness of the sea tempted
uio to venture out m my boat to this wreck, not
only to get something necessary out of the shili,
'but in hopes that some living creature might
be on board, whoso life I might preserve. This
110
had socli an influence upon my mind- that im-
mediately I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for the voyage, carrying on
board my boat, provisions of all sorts, with
some fresh water, and a compass; so putting
off, I paddled the canoe along the shore-, till I
came to the N. E. part of the island, from-
whence I was to launch into the ocean; but
here the current ran' so violently, and appeared
so terrible, that my heart began to fail me;
foreseeing, that if I was driven into any of
these currents, I might he carried not only out
of the reach or sight of the island, but ever*
inevitably lost in the surges of tbe ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little
week on the shore, where, stepping out, I sat
me down on a rising hill, very penshe and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide
was turned, and the flood came on, which made-
it impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours.
That night, I reposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch coat instead of a blanket,
the heavens being my tester. The next morning
1 set out with the tirst of the tide full north, till
I felt tho benefit of the current, which carried
me at a great rate eastward, yet not with sucli
impetuosity as before, nor so as to take from
me all government of my canoe: so that in two
hours I came up to the wreck, which appeared to
me a most melancholy sight. It seemed to he a
Squish vessel by its building, stuck fast between
Ill
tvro rocks; her storn and quarters beaton lo
-pieices by the sea: her main-must and fore-mast
.were brought off by the board; that is, broken
short off. As I approached nearer, 1 perceived
a dog on board, who, seeing me coming, yelp-
ed and cried: and no sooner did I call him,
lntt the poor creature jumped into the sen, oat
of which I took him up almost famished with
hunger and thirst; so that when I gave him a
cake of bread, no ravenous wolf could devour
it more greedily; and he drank to that degree
of fresh water, that he would have burst him-
self bad I suffered him-
The first sight I met with, in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cock-room or fore-
.castle, inclosed in one another's arms: hence I
very probably supposed, that when the vessel
struck in the .storm, so high and incessantly did
the waters break in and over her, that the men
not being able to bear it, were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There were
several casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
I conld not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing
cut of the water, yet were too largo for me to
pretend to meddle with: likewise 1 perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to
the seamen, two of which 1 took into my boat,
without examining what was in them. What
liecume of the rest of the sailors I could not
-certainly toll; anil all her riches signified no-
thing at that time to any body-
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
»ome labour I got into my boat; in a cabin1
were several muskets, which I let remain there ;.
but took away with me a great powiler horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it. I
took also a lire shovel and tongs, with two
kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a
grid-iron," all which I thought must prove high-
ly useful to me, especially the fire shovel and
tongs. And sO'With the cargo, accompanied by
my dog, I came away, the tide serving for that
purpose; and the samo evening about an hour
within night, I attained the island, after the
greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limit!; in
6he boat, resolving the next morning to har-
bour what I had gotten, in my new found
under-ground grotto f and not carry my cargo-
home to my ancient castle.. Having refreshed
myself, and got all my effects on shore, I next
proceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask. I found the liquor to be SB.
kmd of rum, but not likfe what we had at thcr
Jkazils. nor indeed near so good. At tho-
opening of the chests several things apltcarecfe
very useful to me; for instance, I found in-
one, a very fine ca<e of bottles, containing ttio-
finest and best sort of cordial waters; each-
bottle held about three pints, and was curious! v"
tipt with silver. 1 found also two pots full of
the choicest -sweetmeats, and two more which tl e
water had utterly spoiled. There were lilcu-
wise seveial g>oJ; shirts, exceedingly wclcou;e
113
Ao me, and atout ctoc dozen and a half of white
iinen hankerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths,
the former of which was useful for wiping my
face in a hot day; and in the .till, I found three
tags of money, in one of which, decently wrapt
vp in a piece of paper, were six doubloons oi
-go]d:; and seine small fears and wedges of the
same metal, which 1 believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other cheete, I only found
some clothes of very little value, and about
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three
flasks, kept as I believe for charging their fow-
ling pieces on .any occasion, so that, on the
whole I tMade wery little of this voyage. Tfce
money was indeed as mere dirt to me, useless
*md unprofitable; all which I would have freely
imrted with for two or three pair of English
shoes and stockings, things that for many years
I had not worn, except those which I had lately
taken off the feet of the unfortunate men I found
drowned in the wreck, yet not so good as Engl-
ish shoes, either for ease or service. I found
no gold in the second chestj so concluded that
what I took from the first belonged to an .officer,
the latter appearing to have a much inferior per-
son for its owner. However, as despicable as
the money seemed, I likewise lugged it to my
cave, laying it up securely, as I did the rest
of my cargo, and intending to seek out, and re-
turn it to the family of the unfortunate owner,
if ever I should return to Europe.: and after I
bad done all this, as there was nothing more
aboard which I could remove, I returned back
to my boat, rowing or puddling her along till
} came to my old xharbonr, where I carefully
laid her up, and so made the host of my way
t-o my castle. VVhcn I arrived there, every
thing seemed safe and quiet; so lUnlt now, my
only business was to repose myself after my
wonted manner, and take care of my domes-
tic a flairs 13ut though I might have lived very
easy, as "Wanting for nothing absolutely need-
'fiil; yet still I was more vigilant than'usual,
upon'aceguQt of (ho savages, never going much
abroad; or, if I did, it "was to the east part of
the island, where 1 was wejl assured that tho
savages never came, and where I might not he
troubled to carry such a heavy load of weapons
for ihy defence, as 1 thought necessary to Ju
if I went the other way.'
Two years did I live in tltis anxious condi-
tion, in all which tii^o, contrary to my former
resolutions, my head was lille'd with notliint^
l^nt projects and designs how I might escapes
from this island; and so much vvcre my wan-
dering thoughts bent upon a rambling expecli.
tion, that had 1 had the same boat that I went
from Salee in, 1 should have ventured once moru
to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
Having retired to my castle, after my la(<»
voyage to the ship, my boat laid up and se-
cured, as usual,- and my condition the samo
us before, except being richer, though I had
«s little occasion for riches us the Indians of
l?£ru had for gold, before the Spaniards came
among them: one niijht ia March, boin»-the
us
i
rainy season, ki the four and twentieth year of
my solitude, I Jay down to sleep, very \veJl in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncoaiinon
imcasiness either of body or mind; yet not-
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long. All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express what innumerable
thoughts came into my head, I traced quita
over, the whole history of my life in miniature,
from my utmost remembrance of things till I
i»me to this island; and then proceeded to
examine every action and passage that had
Occurred since I had taken possession of my
kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter, £.
was comparing the happy posture of my affairs
in the beginning of my reign, to this life of
anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had disco-
vered the print of a foot in the sand ; .and that
while I continued without apprehension I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I 'now
Buffered. How thankful rather ought I to have
been :for the knowledge of my danger, since
the greatest happiness a man can be possessed
of, is to have sufficient time to provide against
it? How stupendous is the goodness of Provi
dence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, tfiat
.while men walk in the midst of so many dan-
gers, they are kept sorrne and calm, by having
the events of things hid from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround them, till- perhaps they are disnipaled
mid vanished away. - ... '-- - .- -;
'
116
*
About a year and a half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprized by seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to (hem all landed and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
lay still in my castle; which, however, I put
in a proper posture for an attack; and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
my impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and, as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill
at two stages, standing, however, in such a,
manner, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not easily perceive me:
and here, by the assistance of my perspective
glass, I observed no less than thirty in number
around a fire, feasting upon what meat they
had dressed: how they cooked it, or what it
was, I could not then perfectly tell; but they
were all dancing ond capering about the flames,
using many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with.a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea.
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread,
ful tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. It was not long before one of them fell
upon the ground, knocked down, as I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
manner: while two or three others went imme-
diately to work, cutting him open for their
117
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they
liad done the former: while the last unhappy
captive was left by himself, till such time as
they were ready lor him. The poor creature
looked round him with a sorrowful eye, trem-
blmg at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing him-
self a little at liberty, nature, that very moment,
a-slt were, inspired him with hopes of life: He
started away from them, and ran, with incredi-
ble swiftness, along the sands, directly to that
part of the coast where my ancient and vener-
able castle stood.
You may well imagine I was dreadfully af»
frighted upon this occasion, when, as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. And now, indeed, 1 ex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove
for protection. However, my spirits beginning
io recover, I still kept ulion my guard; and I
now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. I
was infinitely pleased at the swiftness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers,
•pining so much ground upon them, that 1
plainly perceived, could he thus hold out for
half an Lour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
enemies.
Betvvern them and my castle, there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with
all my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which I very much feared
the poor victim would be lukcjt, it lie could
ns
not switn for his escape: Dnl'.4oon was I out of
pain tor him, when I perceived hn made no-
thing of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by tho sense of
danger, he plunged into the Hood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then Imilinlr,
ran with the same incredible strength and
swiftness as before. When the three pursuer*
came to the creek, two of them', who I per-
ceived could not swim, happily for themselves,
returned to their company- while the other,
with an equal courage, but much less swiftness,
attained the other side, as though hn was re-
solved never to give over the pitr»nit. And
(now or never, I thought was the time for me to
procure me a servant, companion or assistants
and earnestly did I hope that 1'rovidenfu might
permit me to be the instrument losavo this poor
creature's life. I immediately descended my
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I took-
np my two guns, which 1 said bel'qre were at
the bottom of them: and, geltmg' up again with
the same haste towards the hill. I made nearer
the sea. In a word, taking a shortcut down thu
hill, I interposed between the pursuer and pur-
sued, hallooing aloud to the latter, who ventur-
ing to look back, was, no doultt, as much terri-
fied at me as at tho enemy irom whom ho Hed.
1 beckoned to him with my hand to return back,
and in the mean time, advanced towards tint
pursuer. I was very uuwilliog to fire, lest tho
rest should hear, though, .at that distance. 'I
$uesticmed> whether they could or uc ; --and,

ROBINSON CRUSOE RESCUING FRIDAV.
120
being out of sight of the smoke, they could not
easily have known what to make of it Tho
savage stopped ns if he had been amazed:
wht'n, advancing towards him, I could per-
ceive him take his bow from his hack, and,
after fixing an arrow to it, preparing to shoot
at me, and, without dispute, he might have
lodged it in my breast; but in this necessary
case for sell-preservation, I immediately fired,
and shot him dead, just as his hand was going
to draw the latal string. All this while, tho
savage who had lied before, stood still, and had
the satisfaction to see his enemy killed, as he
thought, who designed to tnke away his life;
so aflrighted was lie with tho fire and noise of
my piece, tfvat he stood as it were like Lot's
wife, fixed and immovnable, without cither sense'
or motion. This obliged me to halloo to hinl
ugain, making the plainest signs I could to him
to d.uw nourrr. 1 perceived he understood
these tokens, by his approaching to me a littlo
way, when, as if afraid I should kill him too,
"lie stopped again. Several times did he advance,
end as often .«lop in this manner, till, coming
more to my view, I perceived him trembling,
as if he was to undergo the same late. Upon
which, I looked upon him with a smiling coun-
tenance, and still beckoned to him; at length
he came close to mo, and kneeled down, kissed
the ground, laid his head upon it, and taking
ms by tne foot, set it npon his head; which as I
understood afterwards, was a token of swearing
121
to be my slave for ever. I lock him up,
and making much of him, encouraged him iu
the best manner I could.
The greatest astonishment that my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
find arrow: and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, fmd then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which I bid him go,
and as well as J could, made him sensible I
granted his request. But when he came there,
pow wonderfully was he struck with amaze-
ment ', First, he turned it on one side, then on
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity of blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the- bullet had
rna.dc in the breast, he took up \i's bow and
arrows, and came back again; upon which \
turned to go away, making signs to him to
follow, lest the re*t missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of. him, and this L found.
he understood very well, by making me to
understand that his design was to bury it, that
jt might not he seen; and which, by signs again,.
1 made him sensible I very much approved of.
Immediately, he fell to work, .and never was
grave.digger more dexterous in the worlj than
he was; for in an instant, as 1 might say, he
scraped a large hole in the sands with his hands,
sufficient to bury it in; there h» drugged it,
and, without any ceremony, covered it over,
I then called him away, and instead of carrying
lL'2
kjm difccUy tu my castle nt first, 1 conveyed
him to my cavo on the farther part of tho
island. - '1
\Veary and faint, hungry and thirsty, un-
doubtedly must this poor creature bo, support-
ed cia'clly by ths vivai-fty of spirif, and uncom-
mon transports of joy that l}is deliverance oc-
c'isioned. H.;re Igave him broad nttd a bunch of
raisins to eat, and water to drink, on which
he fed vorv cheerfully, to his exceeding re-
freshment. I thon nmdo Jiirn a convenient bed, -
VJth a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket H|Kin-
it, (a bod which I used myself sometimes) attil
pointing to it, made siljils for hjm to lie
down to sleep, upon which tho pQor crcaturq
went.to take a welcome repose.
Indeed ho was a very comely, handsqinQ,
young fellow, extremely well' mado, witlt
straight long limbs, not' too large, tall, and -
well shaped, and; as near a§ I could reckon.
about twcn'y-six years of age. His counte-
nance had nothing in it iierce or surly,; but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and
especially when he smiled, ho had all tho
sweetness of an European. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many bf tho blacks ar«,
but long and black, with tho most beautiful,
yet careless tresses spreading over his shoul-
ders. He had a very high and largo forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in -
his eyes. Flis skin was not so tawny as that -
of tha Americans; but rather of a light dun -
ics
i
olive colour, lhtil had something agrecaWfe in
it, though not' very easy to give a. description
of. IJis (ace was round and plump, with a
small BO.-SC, very different from tlio flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small mouth, thin lips, line
teeth, very well set, and white as the 'driven
.KIJOW. Jn a word, such handsome features,
iuid exact symmetry in every part, made me
consider, that 1 had saved ti'ic life of an In-
«lian prince, for a person of-less dignity as J
thought, could not possess such grace and.
accomplishments. «
He had not, I think- slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while 1 was
milking my goats hard by, out ho runs from
the can- inwards me in my enclosure, and lay-
ing iJiinsoH'down on the ground in the lowest
]irvNli;u(iim, made all the antic gestures ima-
lyuabl*-. iii express his thankfulness to me foe
being .his i!cli\erer. lie laid down his head
»guiu upon Iho ground, close to my foot, and
>*:t my other foot upon his head, as he had
done hci'niv- making all the signs of subjection,
snmluilt:- <uid submission iiuaiiinable. to Itt
me mi(kiv(and he would serve mo as long as
his jiiu endured. As 1 understood Lim in
itiauy iliing>, 1 made him sensible I was very
well plvatsed with him.; and, in a little time, I
began to speak to him, and teach him how to
talk to.n.c again.
In ti,e liist place, I mi^de him understand
iiii .tiaiui: was to. be Fridny, because- it was upon
J21
thai day I saved his life; I thon tnngbt him to
say Master, which I made him .sensiide was to
be my name; I likewise taught him to <ay y«?s
anil no, and to know what they meant, 1 gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, making dim
view me while- i drank it betoro him, aud
soaked my bread in it; I gave him a cake of
bread, and caused him to soak it likewise, to
which ho readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but no
sooner did tho morning light appear, lh;iu J
ordered him to arise and cume along with mo,
with certain tokens that I would give him s:i-!;e
clothes like mine, at which he seemed vvry
glad, being stark nuked, without the lea^t
covering whatever. As we passed by the plucu
where the man had been interred, my mau
pointed directly to his grave, shoA-ing me tho
marks that ho had made to lind it again, #ivi<i£
me to understand liy signs, that we should di£
him up and devour him. At this I appeared
extremely displeased, expressed my utmost
abhorrence, as it' I would vomit at tue appre-
hensions of it, beckoning with my hand to cou.o
away, which he did with the greatest reve.
rence and submission. After this, I conducted
him to the top of the hill, to view if the rest
of the savages were yet remaining there; but
when 1 looked through my perspective glass,
I coiild see no appearance of them, nor of
tbeir canoes j BO tiiut it was very evident tht.-y
•ever minded their deceased companion whom
we had slain; which if they had, they would
surely have searched for, or left one boat
behind tor him to follow, after he returned
from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, ani-
mating we with courage to see this scene of
barbarity, I took my man Friday with me to
the place of their bloody entertainment. But
when I came there, I was struck with the ut-
most horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst
Friday was no way concerned about it, being
no doubt in his turn one of these devourers. f lere
lay several human bones, there several pieces of
. mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch-
ed, together with quantities of blood, which the
sun and wind had dried up. As I was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself, that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in
the just defence of whom he was taken pri-
soner, with many others; all of these were car-
ried off to different places to be devoured by
their conquerors; and that it was his fortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for tho
very same purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I
- caused Friday to gather those horrid remain!
, 12(5
ami lay them together upon a heap, which I
wdurud. to be sot on fire, and burnt them to
miies; my man, however, still retained' the pa-
4uro of a cannibal- having a hankering stomach
after some of the ilesh; but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance of rt, that he durst not-lmt eonceal'it: for
I made him very sensible, that if he attempted
-any such thin;r, \ would certainly shoot him.
This being done, I carried my man \\ ith me,
to my castle, and gave him a -pair of linen
drawers, winch 1 had taken out of the
poor guifmer's chest before mentioned; and
-whi(:h, with a little alteration, fitted- him very
well; in the next place 1 made him- a jerkin
of goat skin, such us my skill was ublo to ma,
nage, and indeed I thought myself then a tole-
rable good tailor. I-gaye. him also a tap,
which I made of a hare's skin, very convenient
and fashionable. Tims being clothed tolerably
well, my man was no less proud of his habit,
thnn I was ut seeing him in it. Indeed he
>vent very awkwardly at lirst, b\it by u§r,'et
-jcngth he took to them very well.
• My next concern was. where I should lodge
him; and that [ might do well by him,
and yet be perfectly easy myself, 1 erected a
tent for him in the vacant place between ttiy
two fortifications, in tl)e inside of the last- ami
-tbe outside of the first; and as there was an
-entrance or door into my cave, I- made a for-
mal framed dooF-oase, and a d.oor to open en
the inside-; I-barrcd it up in the night
127
time, taking in my ladders too, so that, were
J»iy man to prove treacherous, there could
be no way to come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall, without making so much noisa
in getting over, that it must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it
of long poles, spreading over my tent, apd leaning
.up to the side of the mountain, which was
^gain laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and thatched over to a great thickness
with the rice straw, which was as strong as
reeds; and at the hole of the place, left on iinr?
pose to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of a trap door, which if it had been
.attempted on the outside, would not hayo
opem-d at all, but have fallen down, and made
p groat noise; and as to my wcnpons, every
night I took them all to my bed side.
I3ut there was no occasion for this precau-
tion; lot surely never master had a more sin-
cere, faithful and loving servant th;m Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sitllenness,
pr design,, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
affections, were as much tied to me, as those of
a child to his parents; and I might venture to
say, he would have laid down his life for the
saving of mine, upon any occasion whatever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave me
of this, sufficiently convinced me that 1 had no
; occasion to use all these precautions.
I had not been above two or three days r<>
lurned to my castle, when it because my chief
I* ,
design to bring Friday off* t'rom his horrid way
of feeding; and, to take from him that inhu-
man relish he by habit had boon accustomed U>:
thus I thought itiuy duty to let him taste other
flesh, which might the rather tempt him tu the
same abhorrence, I so often expressed against
their cruel way of living. Upon which, ono
nmniing I took him out with me, with an inr
tentioo to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring
it home, and dress it. As I was going, I per-
ceived a she-goat lying down in the shades and
two young kids sitting by her. Immedi-
ately I witched hold of my man Friday, and
Wilding him stand still, and not stir, 1 pre-
sented rny piece and *hot one of the kid*.
My poor servant, who had at a distance peiv
cciveil me kill his adversary, and yet did not
know by what means, or how it was dona.
stood trembling and surprised, and looked so
amazed, that I thought he would Uhve sunk.
into the earth. He did not SKU the kid I
aimed at, (5f Bbserve I had killed it, but ripped
up his waiscoat to wee if ho was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which 1 did not un.
tlerstand the meaning of; which at length I
perceived was, that 1 would not take away his
life.
Indeed so much compassion had I tor thin
creature, tbut it was witli difficulty I refrained
from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince
him that I would do him no harm, I took him,
smiling, by tho hand, then laughed at him, and
pointing to tho kid which I had slain, made
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly h«
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was killed, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
l«'ridnv understand what I was going to do, I
called*^ him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bade him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all 1 had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not perceive
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much us touch it
ior several days after; but would,, come and
communicate his thoughts to it, :mii talk to it,
as if the senseless piece had understood and
answered him ; all this I could perceive him
to do, when he thought my back was turned,
the chief intent of which was, to desire it
not to kill him, a* I afterwards camo to
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from the cpmical gestures he
used on such occas:ons; but when his asto-
nisbmc'nt was a little over, I made tokens to
130
him to Tun and fetch the parrot that I bad
shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way
farther from the place where she fell. In the
mean time, as he was - looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my gun again, that
so I might be ready for any other mark that
offered; but nothing more occurred at .the
time.' So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the
carcase as well as I could. Part of the flesh,
I stewed and boiled, in a pot I made for this
purpose. And then, spreading my table, I
sat down, giving my man some of it to eat, who
was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to lika
it very well: but what was the most surprising
to him was to see me eat salt with it-- upon
which he made me understand, that the salt
was very bad for me; when, putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it in such-
a manner, as to spit and sputter at it, and
then washed his mouth with fresh water: but
to show him how contrary his opinion was to
mine, I put some meat into my mouth with-
out salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as much
for want of it, as he had done at it; yet
all this proved of no signification to Friday;
and it was a long while before he could endure
any salt in his meat or broth, -and even then
but a small quantity.
Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled
meat and broth at that time, the next > day I
131
was resolved to feast him with a roasted pteee -
of the kid. And having no spit to fasten it, -
nor jack to turn it, I made use of that com-
mon artifice which many of the people of
England have; that is, to set two poles upon
each side of the tire, and one across on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, and
so turning it round continually, till it was
sufficiently roasted. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
aaother way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when he came to tasta
the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he
expressed his .entire satisfaction in many dif-
ferent ways. As I could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure I was as won-
derfully pleased, especially when he made it
also very plain to me, that be would never,
while he lived, eat man's flesh more. •
It was now higl\ time I should set my new
servant to work; so next day I put him to
beat out some corn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow was very quick and handy in the execu-
tion of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him
see me bake it. In short, he did every thing-
as I ordered him, in a little time, as well as I
could perform it myself. .<'
But now, considering that I had two mouths
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I
122
should provide more ground for my "harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the -
execution of which I must give P'riday this
good word, that no man could work more
handily, or with bettor will than he did; and
when I made him sensible that it was for
bread to servo him as well as me, he then very
passionately made 'me understand, that he
thought I had much more labour on his ac-
coimt, than I had for myself; and that no-
pains or diligence should be wanting in him,
if 1 would but (..irect him in those works
wherein he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was wont to call for, and the places*
where I used to send him. So that my long
silent tongue, which had been so many year*
unused, except when praying to God, or con-
versing with my Foil, now began to be occu-
pied, in teaching, and talking to my man
Friday; for indeed ] had such a singular satis-
faction in the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty sppear more and
more every day, that 1 really began entirely
to love him; and for his part I believe thera
was no love lost, and that his nature had bceM
vaoro charmed by my exceeding Kindness,.
and his aftections more placed upon me, than1
any other object whatsoever among his OWHr
countrymen.
I once had a great desire to try if ho
liad any hankering inclination to his owa-
oountry again; and by this time, having taught?
him English so well, that he could give me
tolerable answers to miy question which I de-
manded,. I asked him, whether that' nation to*
which he belonged ever conquered in battle?
This question made Friday smile, and to which-
be answered, yes, yes, we always fight the bet-
ter; a» much as to say, they always got tha
better in tight. You say, said I, that you al-
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, how
came you to be tuken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that my- nation beafe
muck.
Master. How, say yon, beat'?1 if your na-
tion beat them- how came you to 'he taken?
Friday. They more many mans than my
r.aiion in the place where me was, they take-
ono; two, three, and me; my nation much*
oveebeat them in the yonder place where me-
s, there my nation mans beat one, two,.
oat many.
tier. Then why did not yo«r men re-
f"you-from the hands of your enemies? .
friday. They run one, two, or three, and
-; they make all go into the canoe; my na-
'>n have no canoe that time.
Maslov Tis very well, Friday; but wha*.

134
does your nation Jo with the prisoners they
take? Do they carry thsm away and eat
them as they have done?
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too,
eat up all.
Master. To what place do they carry them
to be devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they
think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over
other place.
Master. And have you been with them here,
Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
northwest of the island, being the side where
they used to land.)
Thus having gotten what accc-.mt 1 could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shoro on the
furthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for:
and some time alter, I carried him to that place
where he pointed; and no sooner did he coma
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig-
nifying to me that he was once there when
they ate up twenty men, two women a
young child; but as he could not explain
number in English, he did it by so ma
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them.
135
My nest question was, how far it was from
flie island to the shore, and whether canoes
were notol'ten lost in the ocean? Tp which he
answered, there was no dqnger: that no ca-
noes were ever lost: but that after a litila
way out to the sea, there was a strong cur-
rerlt, and a wind always one way, in the after-
noon. This 1 thought at first'to be no mote
than thc sots of tide, of going out or coming
in; but I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draught arid reflux of thq
mighty river proonoko, in the- mouth or gulph
of which, I imagined my kingdom lay; and
that the land which I perceived to' the W. an4
N. W. must bo the great island Trinidad, on
the north of the river. '''' '-
Well, yoa may be sure, this knowledge,
which Uie imperfect information oil my mari
had led rue to, was very comfortable lo mej
and mfcde me so curious as to ask him, how I
niight'dW)art frpm this island, and get amongst
those vriKte'men? lie told me, Yes, Yes, I
might go in two canoes. In two canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean? And,
indeed it was a long time'before I understood
his meaning, which was, that it must be a large
boat, as big as two canoes, 'able to bear witli tho
waves, and not so liable to be overwhelmed as
it small one must be.
: I believe there is no state of life but what
may be happy, if people would but endeavour'
for their part to make it so. lie is not ttio
- happiest iiitm who has the mott riches, but ho
H '_'
130
(that,is content wilt what be hath. <Before I
thed my servant, I thought myself miserable
rtill I had him; and now thaU had enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and
begged a deliverance from a place of retire,
ment, ea.se, and plenty, where Providence in
aucli a signal manner had blessed me. In a
word, frouKtliis time I oBtertained some hopes,
ithat one time or other 1 might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this island,
,aud that this poor savage might be A great
furtherance thereto.
i now began .to instruct my servant, in lh«
.saving knowledge ef ithe true Deity, in which
ftl*e directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.
Friday, said I, yoy -must know, that tafore
:this world was made, (hero was-an Almighty
Power existing, by whose power, all things
were made, and whose majesty shall have no
.end. To be glorified .and adored by Beings of
.a heavenly nature, he «reated angds anil areli-
.angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling -hiin-
xc\f to encompass his throne, eternally -sing-
ing forth his praise, in ihe most heavenly
.wounds and divine harmony..
I found it easy enough to imprint the right
notions in his mind of God: for nature assisted
iue in ill my arguments, to show him plainly
the necessity of a great .and overruling, govern-
ing power, of a secret directing Providence.
#nd of the equity and reasonableness «f paying
*doiation to c«r Creator.
137
I then entered into a long discourses with
him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the Saviour of it, and tho doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, lolrelher
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.
By the constapt application I made of tho
Scriptures, as I read them ty my man Friday,
I earnestly fendeavoured to make him under-
stand 'every part of them as much as'jay in my
power. l|e' also, on the other hand, by his
very serious questions and inquiries, made mo
a much better proficient in iScripture know-
. ledge, than I should liave been • by my own
privaf« reading and study. . ''"
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
dUconrs'e we had together, my man and 1
became most intimately acquainted, and that
there was very little that 1 could say, but
what Friday understood; and indeed, he spoke,
very fluently, though it was but broken Eng-
lish. 1 now took a particular pleasure in re-
lating all my adventures, especially those that
occurred MIICC my being cast on this island.
1 made him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and
bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I also
presented to him a knife, which pleased him
exceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a-hanger
tprut in the frog, I gave him a hatchet, which
. H 3
138
was not only as good, but even a better wea-
pon upon many oecasioHs.
I next gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of my misfortune in being shipwrecked;
showing him, as near as I could, the place
where the ship lay, which had been gone long
before; but I brought him to the ruins of my
i)oat, which, before, my whole strength could
not move, but now was almost rotten and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to
view this boat with an uncommon curiosity;
x which when he had done, he stood pondering
a great while, and said nothing. At last, suid
J, Friday, what makes you ponder so much?
lie replied, O master, me see like boat come Id
place at my .-iotion.
It was some time, indeed, before I under-
stood ~what my man meant; but examining
strictly into it, I plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had como to
the country where he dwelt; that is to say, by
bis farther explanation, that the boat was
tdriven there through stress of weather. / .
Indeed Friday answered my demands very
well, -making every thing plain to my under-
standing; but beyond measure was I satisfied
when he told me with great warmth and ar-
dour, Q master ,me seme white mans from drotcn;
upon which I immediately asked him, if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the
boat; Yes, yes, said ho, the boat full, eery full
of white mans. How many, Friday, said J,-
Hereupon Le numbered his fingers, aud counted
•teventeen. And wlien I 'asked liira xtfiat OP^
came of tliem all, and whether ti>ey lived or
»ot? He replied, Yes, wt»,tei-,.lkey ell line,
fkey be live among my nation. Tliisinfonnatiou
pat fresh thonghls iv&io my head, that thtv«
nwst be the very -mow who before I concluded
hiid beenswallowed up in the oeean, after they
had left their ship, tkat had stmtck upon the
rucks of *ay kingdom, and after escaping thw
fury of the dee]), landed upon the wild shure,
and ofxwirtitled thciuselveti to the Jury of the
dev<5nrLttg Indians.
The tuunnor of tljojr cruelties to one an-
other, which consequently, as I tliouglit, um-t
be acted with greater liurharity to etrang<?rs,
creatod in me a great anxiety, and miult; me
still more curious to ask 1'Viduy concernint;-
them. He told ino, he \vas sure tltpy still livwl
there, ha\ing resided auiong them above lour
years, and that tho MWgos ^avx; them victuals to
Jive upon. But |it;iyt Friday, said f, wln-nco
proceeded all this gowd nature and generosity?
How came it to pass th;jt they did not kill
and eat them, to please their devouring appe-
tites; and occasion so splendid an en;erlam.
tnent among them? No< tm, said Friday, tltftf
not kill 'em, l/teff mnke brother with 'vm; by
which I nnderstand there was a truce between
thorn. And then I had a moro favourable
opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering
the-words: My nation t'other .nation tui eat
man's, but tt'he/t man's mnke war Jig/tt-: as
though he bad said, that nuithcr tlio^u of ttu
HO
kingdom, nor nny oiher nations lhat he knew
of, ever ate their fellow creatures, but .such
ns thoir law of arms allowed to be devoured:
that is, those miserable captives, whose mis-
fortune it \vas to be made prisoners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, in most serene weather, my man
.'md 1 stood upon the top of a hill- on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent of America. I could not. tell iimne-
iliat'oly what was' tile matter: for suddenly
Friday fell a jumping and dancing, as if be
had been i»ad; and upon my demanding the
rent-onof his boliavour, OJoy, said he, O glad!
liters aee my country, there my nation, there
tvhile ntmt's gather. And indeed such a mptu-
rous sense of pleasure appeared in his coun-
tenance, that 'his eyes had an uncommon
<-|iHikling und brightness-, and such a strange
eagerness, as if lie bad a longing desire to bfe
in his own country again. This made me no't
so well satisfied with my man Friday as be.
fore; for by this appearance,-I made no dis-
pute, but that if he could get back thither
fl:;.flin, he would not only be unmindful of
\vhat religion 1 had taught him, but likewise
of the great obligation ho owed me for his
wonderful delivemnce: nay, that he would
not only inform his countrymen of me, but
accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom,
snd m'ike me a miserable sacrifice, like
wretches taken in battle.
1'41
'In'dce3 ( was very much to blame to have
'these cruel, and uhjust suspicions, and iniw;
'.freely own I wronged the poor creature vety
much, who was of a quite contrary tempef.
And had he had that discerning aoutenws
-which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my coldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con-
cerned iipon that- account. * .
As we 'were walking up the same hill
-mnother day, whew 4he weather was so hazy
:at sea, that A. -could not perceive the conti-
-nent; Friday, taid I, don't you wish yourself
to be in your own country, among .yowr old
'friends and .ncqitaip-tances.'? 3W, Kffid ho,
me much O gladto'be fit my own ndtion.
And what would joa do there Friday?
Would you 'tarn wild again, eat man's flesh
.and 'be savage as you were formerly? No.
no, (-enswened.'he, full<«f concern, and shaking
his head) Friday now 'tttt them to the good,
tell them pray God, tell them to eat <?»/r/7,
kreaH, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat mart agtn'/i+
But surely, replied I, if you should offor to do
.all this, they will kill you; and to manifest their
•contempt of such instruction, cat you up when
they have done. He thea (put OB a grave, yet
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, £fa,
•ihey no 1MI me, they willing loot leu.ru: thut
is, that they would be very willingto learn : add-
ing withall, 'that -they had learned very much
of the betu deil man's t/utt came in 'the boat.
Will JOB, snid I, go back again, Friday^ !lo
142
smiled at that, and told me that be could not
swim so far. But said I, I will make a vanoe
lor you: Yes master, said he, me go if you
go, me no go if you stay. I go, Friday!
Vr'hy would you have them eat me up, and de-
vour your kind master? No, no, said he, vie
make them no eat master, and me muke them
much love you; that is, he would tell them
how I had slain his enemies, and thereby saved
his life, for which reason he would make them
love me; and then he related to me, as well as
he was able, how exceedingly kind those of his
nation were to the white or bearded men, as h$
called them, who in their'great calamity, were
.drven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had strong
inclinations to venture over, and use my utmost
efforts, if possible, to join 'with those white
bearded men, who undoubtedly were Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, it must be
certainly a better and safer way, to escape
when there is a good company, - than for me
alone, from an island forty miles off the show,
and without any assistance. Some days after,
Friday and I being at work, as usual, at the
same time diverting ourselves with various
discourses, I told him T had a boat which
I would bestow upon him, whenever lie
pleased to return to his own nation: and to
convince him of the truth of what I fcaiii,
I took him with me to the other side of the
island, where iry frigate lay, and then taking
it from under water ('for I' always kept it
1-J3
sunk for fear of a discovery) we both went
into it to see how it would manage such aii
expedition.
And really never could any one be more:
dexterous in rowing than my faithful servant,
making the boat go as fast again as I could.
\Yell, now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to
your much desired nation? But, instead of
meeting with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying .
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
made me sensible, that his concern was about
the boat's being too small to go so far a voy-
ago. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and; accordingly the next day
went to the place, where the first boat lay,-
which I had made, when all tbe strength I
had, or art I could use, failed me in my at-
tempt to get if. into the water: but now it having
lain in the sun two and twenty years, and no
care being ta'ken of it all that while, it became
in a manner rotten. My man told me, that
such a boat would do very well for the pur-
pose, sufficient to carry enough vittle, dring.,
bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the conti-
nent, I very plainly.told him, that we would
both go and make a boat full as big, and more
proportionable than that, wherein he might
safely return to bis own nation: for it occurred
to nw, that most probably his great wish for a
larger boat was altogether selli*h, and that
provided bfe conld himself return to his
country, he cared but little what became of me.
Go your way, added I, since you desire it,
and leave me alone by myself, as I. was before-
I saved yourJifc.'
Never; was any creature niore thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words. G»tne ((way,
leave master away, said he,.after a longsilenoe,.
no, n$, Friday die,. Friday live not master
gone; as though he had said, !- neither can nor
vrHd live, it my master sends me from him. Fri-
day felt towards me the greatest gratitude, and
the most sincere love ;.. he found me not only*
his deliverer;-.bi*t his preserver and comforter ^
not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, lov-
ing-, and affable friend. He wa»ted for no
manner &£ sustenance l. aad when he was ill>
o» out of. order^ .1: wasxhis physievan, not only
for his body,- bat his soul; aadi therefor* no
Bonder was it, that suchuan innoeaat creature,
long since dWeated of his former natural eruelty,-
ahould have an uncommon concern at. so cruel
a separation from me, which pierced him to the
very soul, and made him desk» even to die,-
rather than live without mo.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his- liberty a»
soon as the boat was-made, the'language of
fcis .eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
when,- immediately running to OHO of. his
hatchets, which he used to wear as a.defcns ive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart
ll, that he- could scarcely speak. Friday,
145
said I, what U it you mean? What must I do
with this? Only kill Friday, said he, Friday
care not live long. But what must I kill you
for, ,replied I again. Ah, dear master^ what
made you Friday save from eat a me up, so
keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and.
now Friday send away, never see Friday more.
And while he spoke thus, the tears ran down
his cheeks in such a plentiful manner, that I
had much ado to refrain from weeping also,
when I beheld the poor creature's affection: so
that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him,
if he was content to abide with me, I should ba
ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his affection, he
said, O master', me not care to tie in my nation
leave you here, me desire nation learn good,
that's all; meaning that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with him. And indeed,
I began to desire to go also, from my late
discourse with Friday about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the Barbarian coast; whom I designed to join,
as the only means to further our escape. TV
wfeich intent, my man and I went to search for
a proper tree to fell, whereof we might maka
a perigua or canoe, to undertake the voyage;
and, indeed, we were not long in finding orie
fit for our purpose, there being enough of
wood in the Island to have built a fleet of large
I
r4T.
s, -tut the tbing we principally
was, to get one so near the water, that we might
launch it after it was'finished, and not commit
so great a mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best
end most c'owenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment ih sitch affairs was much superior to
Mine, '-pilches upon a kind of woo'd the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
tee-in''the knowledge of the most proper tree,
y-et I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before:
for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, iri-order to make this boat; Imt I then
told him hove we might do it with tools, tench-
ing him-at the same time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so thai:
\n tt' month's time we finished it, making it
Very-handsome, by catting-.the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After tuts, it took us a
fill 1: fortnight before-we could get her into the
water; which we did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was in, she
Would have carried twenty men, with all. lh&
'ease imaginable.
As t was very well pleased, you may B»-
'sure, at the launching of this man of war of-
wine, I was no less amazed to behold with wliat<
'dexterity my man could manage her, turn
'her; and paddle her along. Well, Friday,
said I, what do you think of it now? Do-
you thick this wilfcarry us over? Yes, master,
14?
said he, we venture^ over tveli, though grr.al Mow
tcind. $ut my design was yet farthet, which
lio was insensible of;- and that to make a mast
and a sail, and provide her with an anchor
and cable. As to a mast, that was no difficult
thing at all to procure: so fixing upon a
straight young cedar tree, which T found near
the place, great plenty of it aboundmg in the
island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave Lim particular directions how to shapo
and order it; but as to the sail, that I managed
myself. 1 very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, which hud lain six
find twenty years by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking I should have no
occasion to use them any more, when 1 came
to Took over them, I found them almost all
'rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of pains and awk-
ward tedious stitching for waut of needles, at
length I finished a three-cornered ugly thing,
like that we call in England, a shoulder of
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
n Small sprit at the top, like these which our
long-boats use, and which I very well knew
Low to manage; especially since it was liko
that which I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when with my boy Xury, I made my escape
from the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the rigging, and
fitting my mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having made a small stay,
i 2
ami a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we
should turn to the windward; and, which was
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her,
to steer with; and though I Was but a very
indifferent shipwright, yet, as I was sensible
of the great usefulness and absolute necessity
of a thing like this, I applied myself to it with
such a constant application, that at last I ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
dull contrivances I had about it,- and the fiiilnr.*
of many tiiings, it cost me as much pains in
ordering- as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to
teach what belonged to its navigation; f-r
though he very well understood how to paddle
a canoe alone, he was an utter stranger to a
sail and a rudder, and was amazed when ha
saw me work the boat to and again in the sear
by them, and how the sail jibbed,and filied
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some time, and a little use,
1 made all these thjngs very familiar to him,-
so that he became an expert sailor, except in
relation to the compass, and that I could maka
him understand but little of. But as it hap*
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, ther»
bting but little cloudy weather,- and scarcely
a.ny fog in those parts; the stars w.'re always
visible in the night, and the shore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined every
one to his habitation. Thus entered into the
seven-and-twenticth. year of my reign or
s
55
B*
s-
B
S
0"
t
8-
?-
o

150
captivity, which you please, (the lust tlwoo of
wlfich, ble«s*l with the company of my man
fr'ridny, ought not to bo reckoned ;) I kept the
anniversary of my landing here with tile sunm
"Vmkfuluess to God for his tender mercies, as f
ad done before; and certainly, as }- had great
cause for thankful acknowledgment for ray
deliverance at first, I had mnch greater now
for such similar and additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, in all my dis.
fresscs of liotii body 'and mind, and ihe groat
1 topes I had of being effectually am! speedily
delivered; for I had a Mtrong hope, that £
should not be another year in this island. Hut,
however, I still continued on with my hus.
Iiandry, digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual: gathering and cnrinu; my grapes, and
doing all other tJtings that were necessary.
Artd now the rainy season beginning Jo
come on, obliged me to keep the louger within
doors: but before this, I brought my new ves-
sel into the creek, where I had landed my
raft* from the ship, so we waited for the months
of November and Daci-mltor, in. vvhiuli I dor
sigood to venture over the ot-ean.
No sooner did ihe seasonable wetUher hegin
to draw near, but go timeh was 1 elevated
with this new designed adventure, that I daily
prepared for the yoya-re. The first thins; t
(bought on was to lay by a certain quantity of
iirovisuyi?, as -a fttifficieyt store for such" au
expedition, intendimj in a week or u fo)'tnj;|l>J;'s
131
to open the dock, and launch- out UIG
boat for that purpose. BuJ, one morning as I
.was very busy upon something necessary for
rtliis occasion, I called Friday tp me, and bid
him to goto the seashore, and. see if hrcould
lind a turtle or tortoise, a thing \yhicb we comp
monly had once a week, as much upon account
of the eggs, as foi the sake of the flesh. Hl>
had not been long gone, when he came running
back, as though he was pursued for life, and
as it were flew over niy outer wall, or fence,
.like one t'.iat felt not <hfl ground, or steps l$e
set his feet on; before I had time to inquire
the reason of his precipitation, he cries out,
:O dear master, O sorrow! sorrow! ttcul<l
0 bad! Why what's the matter, Friday ? said
I. O yonder, yonder, said he, there he one,
/&r«, llu-ee canoes.! two, I/tree.
Surely, (thoeght I.) there must be six, by my
man's way of reckoning: but on a stricter in-
quiry, I found there were but three. - WelJ,
-f/riday, said I, 'don't be tcrrifiod. { warraat
you wo will defend ourselves against them.—
But though I comforted him in the best manner
1 could, tlio poor creature trembled so, that I
-scarcely knew what to do with him: O mauler,
said he, they come look Friday, cut pieces,
JSfidrti/, cut a me up.
\Viiy, Friday, said I, they will eat me upas
well as you, and my danger is as great as
yonr's. I3ut since it is so, we must re«solva 10
%Lt for i>nr lives. What say you? <&n you
152
fight, Friday? Yes, said he, very faintly, me
shoot, me kill what lean, but there come great
many number. That's no matter, said I again,
our guns will terrify those that we do not kill;
1 am very willing to stand by you to the last
drop of my blood.
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me,
and obey my orders in whatsoever I command?
Friday then answered, O master, me lose life
for you, me die when you bid die. Thus con-
cluding all questions concerning his fidelity,
I ordered him to take the two fowling pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets;
then I took four muskets and loaded them with
twoslugs, and five small bullets each; charging
my two pistols each with a brace: I hung my
great sword, as customary, naked to my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excel-
lent weapon for defence.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I perceived very soon
by my glass, that there were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to be the trium-
phant banquet upon the three poor human
bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served was very common with them. Upon
which I called to Friday: and shewing him a
great tree, that van just at the corner of the
wood, near which they were, 1 ordered him te
repak tlwtlier, nnd bring mo word, if be could
tiluinly pero^ve their actions; accordingly, Lw
«lld as 1 commanded him, and came back with
this melancholy story, that they were all o.bont
their fire. eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners; and that another lay bound upon tho
sand, a litlle distant from them, whom they de-
signed for their next sacrifi<fc; and this ho
told me, was not one of their nation, but one
of those very beardy men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to me about. You may be
sure, that upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
bis hands tied with flags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to bo an European. From the tree where I
took this prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about - fifty yards
.nearer to thorn than where I was, which, by
Joking a small circle round, I might eomo at
n.-idi.iuovered, and then 1 should bo within half
a shot of these dcvourers. I therefore got
behind some bushes, which held all the way
{ill. I came to the other tree; and then I as-
cended to a little rising gronnd> not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
TVPW (if Ibese creatures, and could perceive all
thvir si'-rioiw.
Such a right did th'wi appear, as obliged
I 5
154
wo not to lose a moment's time. No Tees titan
nineteen «'f these cruel wretches sal upon tho
frroftnil, close huddled together,- expressing all
the delight imaginable at .so barbarous mi en-
tertainment; uiul they had just scut the other
two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
and bring hin^^b hv limb to their tire; for
they were- Ihonlust going to untie the hands
from hU (apt. Hereupon, iramedititely turning
to my mad, Now, Friday, sriid I. (m'nd wlittt'
I say, fail in nothing,- hut rlo GKfictly a-i you
see fno do. Aii whioh lie promisin;:' to per-
form, I set down one of my muskets, and !ii«
J'owlimf-picco upon the -ground, and Fiia'qydiA
the same hy his; and with tho other mnski't
1 took nly aim at one of the savages, lii.il-
<ling him to do the like: Are you ready,
wild J; Yes, waster, said he, why then fku-
ut then), said 1; ami at that very moment I
'gave fife likewise.
Lot not -the reader suppose that I did this
\vill)out concern. vSltopJieil al the barbarity of
thus eating their felIn\v-crcutures, 1 still're-
flected that it was owing to the darkness of -
(.heir minds, and that any execution I fmd my
n:an Friday made among them, was sending
human souls to eternity; at the same time I
could not conceal from myself, that k was
necessary, not only for our safety, but (or the
nceomplifihment of my object, U) show thmn
the elfect of bur fire-arms, and thus to terrify
them from resistance.
t only woMnded one mortally; lnrt my man
Friday, taking lils aim much better t'lutn t bad,
killed two. You may he sure they were in a
dreadful consternation, »t such an unexpected
disaster; mid those who had yet escaped ouf
jicnetraling shot, immediately jumped upon
their feet, but'were in such a confusion, that
they knew not which way to run^r took; not
knowing from whence their destruction caiu-e,
Now, ifriday, said I, lay down your piece, and
take up the musket and follow me. Ho did
*a, with great courage, when, showing our-
selves to the savages, wo gave a great shout,
and made directly to (.he poor viciim, whu
would have been sacrificed, had no't our first
fire obliged the butchers, with ali the others,
whi/ln our shot had not disabled, to jump into
one of their canoes. Uy my order, cridai/
fired at them, in order to complete their eon,
sternation; und, for a moment, 1 thought ho
had killed thehi all, for they instantly tell U»
the bottom of their bout: they soon, however,
with the exception of him whom the ball .struek-,
*tood up, and used their paddles with such
effect, that they were quickly out of oer reach.
In the mean time, I cut the flags that tied the
hands and feet of the poor creature, and lifting
Lim up, asked him, in the Portuguese tongue,
- What he was '( he answered me in Latin,
Chrislianus: but so very weak and faint, that
lie could scarcely stand.or speak. And I next
asked him what countryman ha was? Ho
1AS
said Espaniola, and then uttered all the thank-
fulness imaginable for his deliverance. Signior
(said 1, with as much Spanish as I was master
of,) let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here,
take this sword and pistol aod do what you
can; for at this time I thought the savages
would return. I ordered Friday to run lor
the guns we had left at the tree, (fortunately,
however, there was no occasion to use them,)
which he brought to rue with great swiftness,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded
the rest.
The savages in the canoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them, and, indeed, 1 was
no less anxious about their escape, lest, alter
the news had been carried to their people,
they should return in multitudes, and destroy
u«. So being resolved to pursue them, I
jumped into one of their canoes, and bid' Fri-
day follow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I found another poor'creature,
bound hand end foot for the slaughter, just
as the Spaniard had been, with very little life
in him. Immediately 1 unbound him, and
would have helped him up; but be could nei-
ther stand nor speak, but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in order to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; when pulling
out my bottle, I made the poor wretch chink
a little, which, with the joyful new* he had
leceived, so revived Ws hearf^ that ho sat up
in the boa*. As soon an Friday tfegan to beef
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for be kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, {hen
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his face
and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature; so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter with him;
but when became to the liberty of his speech,
at last he told me it was his father.
.Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see
the dutiful and tender affection which this poor
savage had to his aged parent. He would sjt
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and.
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to cherish him; then lie
took his arms and ankles, which were stiff a^J.
numb'ed, with binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with his hands; by which means, per-
ceiving what the case was, 1 gave him some
rum, which proved of great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the
savages had gotten almost out of sight; and
happy it was we did not pursue them: for
there arose from the north-west, which con-
tinued all night long, such a violent storm, that
1 eould not suppose otherwise but that they
wera a|l drowned. After this, I galled f riday
to tue, and asked -tmu, if hq had given his fa-
ther any bread? lie shook his head, and said,
None, not one bit, me eat a up all; so I gave
him a cake of bread out of a littlo pouch 1 car-
ried for this end. I likewise gave him two or
throe bunches of raisins for his father.
Away ho then runs out of the boat as if he
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that ho was out of sight, as it were,
in an instant; but,' at his return, I perceived
him slacken his pace, because he had son'e-
tiiing in his hand. And this I found to be, as
he approached nearer, an earthen jug willi
some water for his father, with two more cakes
of broad, which he delivered into my hands.
JJeing very thirsty myself, I drunk some of the
walcr, of which when his father had drunk
sufficiently, it more revived his spirits than all
the nun 1 had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry the Spaniard one of the cakes, aud
some water, who was reposing himself upon a,
green place under the shade of a tree, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which, 1 ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum, as
lie had done, his father's. But every minute ho
was employed in this, he wo;'.!d cast his eyes
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, ho Hew
like lightning to him, and rinding- he only laij
himself down to ea«3 his limbs, he returned
159
back to mo presently, and then I spoke to ilia
Spaniard to let Friday help him, and led him
to the boat in order to be conveyed to my
dwelling, where I would take care of hjnj.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
und so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddlod it
Along the shore faster than I could walk, though
tlte wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek-almost aslfeon as J got to it by land;
then wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
J was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow;
and when 1 came to my castle, not being wil-
Hng to make an entrance into my wall, wo
made them a. handsome tent, covered will/ old
eails, and' boughs of trees, making two good
lieds of rico straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who owed their lives to me, I
thought myself very considerable.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects,
J ordered Friday to kill me an yearling goat;
which when be had done, I cut off the hinder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces,
boiled it and stewed it, putting barley and rice-
into the broth. This I carried into their tent,
sot a table, dined with them myself, and en-
couraged them. Friday wus my interpreter to
N50
Vs father, Add indeed to the Spaniard loo,
who spoke the language of tfis .savages pretty
well. After dinner, I ordered Friday to fetch
home all our arms from the field of battle, and
the next day to bury the dead bodies, which
he did accordingly.
And now 1 made Friday inquire of hi*
father, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their canoe ; and if
$o, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attamed their own country, the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make tln-m
tell their people, that the rest of thorn wwo
kilied by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirit*
( meaning Friday and me) who were sent from
above to destroy them. And this, he said,
he knew, because he heard them say the aan-a
to one another. And indeed he was in the
right on't; for I have heard since, that these
very men gave out,' that whoever went 1o that
enchanted island, would w destroyed by fire
from the gods*
'No canoes appearing some time after- as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instenil
«f which my former thoughts of a v'pyog« tuok
161
: their plnep, espeeially when Friday's father as-
sured me I should have good usage in IMS nation..
As to the Spaniard, he told melhat sixteen more
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with tin?
savages, yet they were very miserable for want
of provisions and other necessaries. When I
asked him about the particulars of this voyage,
lie atiswercd, that their ship was bound from
-Rio de la Plata to the Hacannahi that when
the ship was lost, only flye men perished in the
ocean; the rest having saved themselves in the
boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said I.
lie replied, they had concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel, but that they had
neither tools nor provisions, so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing ( said I)
I should make a proposal, aryj invite them
here, would they not carry me prisoner to
New Spain? He answered no; for he knew
them to be such honest men, as would scorn to
act with Ruch inhuman baseness to their deli-
verer; that if I pleased, he and the old savage
would go o.ver to them, talk with them about it,
and bring me an answer: that they should all
swear fidelity to me as their leader, upon the
hjoly sacrament, and, for his part, he wou)d not
only do the same, but stapd by me to the }ast
drop of bw blood, should there be occasion.
"' solemn assurances made «ne reiolve (o
them relief, and to send these -two over
lor that purpose; but when every thing wsw
.ready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
carried a great deal of weight in it: You kao.w.
Sir; said he, that hating been some time with
.you, I cannot hut be sensible of i/our stock of
rica and corn, sufficient, pet-hafts,, fur us at pre-
sent, but not for (/tern, should they name over
presently; much less to victual a vessel for
an intended voyage. And .therefore, my ad-
vice is, to wait another harvest, and in the
Mean time, culticate and improve some more
Land, whereby we may have plenty of procj-
&ions, in order to execute our design.
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved
.extremely; and so satisfied was I o/ his fidelity,
-that I esteemed him ever a-tor. And thus
we all four svent to work upon some mute
land, and against seed-time, we had gotten so
.much cured, and trimmed up, sufficient to sow
22 bushels of barley on, and 16 jars of rice.
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we \ycre four in number, and by this time
.all in good health, we feared not an hundred
<<tf Indians, should lliej venture to attack us.;
und while the corn was growing, 1 pitched
upon some trees, fit to build us a largo vessel,
in case the Spaniards came over: which being
^narked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy counsellor, to oversee and direct
-the work. 1 likewise (increased my flook» ol'
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bring-
ing Tiomo their kids to my enclosure; nor did
I neglect the grape season, but cured them as
usual, 'though I had such a quantity now, as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest ca«ie, God Almighty blessed the encrease
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed out two hundred and
iwenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffL-
.laent to victual a ship fit to carry me and all
ihe Spaniards to any part of Americ^.
Thus the principal object.being -answered,
tiy a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, with a
regal authority to administer the oath of alle-
giance and fidelity, and have an instrument
signed under their hands, though I never-asked
whether they had pen, ink, or paper; when
giving each of them a musket, with eigh|t
charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a
fair gale, on a day when the moon was at the full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
head, but impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep one morning, when a strange
accident happened, which was ushered in by
my man's coming running to me, and calling
.aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are
come. Upqn which, not dreamipg of any dan -
gcr, out I jump from my bed, put oh my
n, and Iwvned through roy little
when looking towards the spa, I pcucdived
l)oat, about a league and a half distant, stand-
ing in for the shore, with the wind fair. I
saw they did not coine from the side where
the land lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island. So these being none of
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie
stiU, iill such lime as 1 came down from the
mountain, which, with my ladder I now as-
cended, in order to discover more fully what
they were; and now, with the help of my
perspective glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
Jish ship, which 1 concluded it to be, by the
fashion of- its long boat; and which filled me
with such uncommon tmnsports of joy, that I
cannot tell how to describe them; and yet
some appreliens-ions was mingled with my joy,
lost any thing should occjir to make this event
different from what I hoped. I resolved there-
fore to be on my guard.
Not long it was, before I porcoived the beat
in approach the shore, as though they looked
tor a place where they might conveniently land;
and ut last they raa their boat on the shoro
iipon the beach, about half a mile distance;
which proved so much the happier forme, since,
had they come into th_c creek- they had landed
juiit at my door, and might not only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered m«
of all I had in the world-. Now I xvos fullr
convinced they were all Eu^li-hmcn. tiuvu i.f
whom woro unarmed and bonnd; when imme-
diately, the first four or live leaped on shore,
and took those three out of the boat as prison-
ers; one of whom I could perceive, used the
most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction
and despair, while the others in a lesser degree,
showed abundance of concern.
Nat knowing. the meaning- of this, I beckoned
to Friday, who was below, to ascend the moun-
tain, and likewise view this sight. O master,
said he to me, you see English mans eat pri-
soners as welt as Savage mans. And do you
think they will eat them, Friday? said I. Yes,
said Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said I,
Friday, I am much more concerned lest they
murder them; but as for eating them up, thai
I am sure they will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfor-
tune in not having tho Spaniard and Savage
with me, but also that I could not come within
shot of them unperceived, (they having no tire-
arms among them) and save those three men,
whom I thought they were going to kill with
their swords. But some comfort it was to me,
that I perceived they were set at liberty to go
where they pleased, the rascally seamen scat-
tering about as though they had a mind to sea
the place: and so long did they negligently
ramble, that the tide had ebbed so low, as to
leave the boat aground. Nor were the two
men that were in her more circumspect: for
having drunk a litfla too much liquor, they fell
fee
fast asleep; but one of them waking before Uic
ether, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move it/ he hallooed out to
tlle rest, who made all possible expedition t<>
come to him; but, as Providence ordered it, all
their force was ineffectual to launch her, whei*-
1 could hear them speak to one another, Why,-
let her alone, Jack, can't ye, she II float next
tide; by which words 1 was fully convinced
tliey were my own countrymen. During this)
time I never stirred from my concealment, be-
irg fully sensible it could be no less than ten
-hours before the boat would be afloat, and then
it would be so dark, that they could not easily
perceive me, by which means I should be ot
more liberty to hear their talk, and observe all
their motions; not but that I prepared for my
defence: yet as 1 bad another sort of enemy to
combat with, I acted with more caution. I
took two fusees on my shoulder, and gave Fri~
day three mu.skets ;. besides my fornnttabl*-
goat skin, and monstrous cap, made iae look
both fierce and: terrible, especially when two-
pistols were stuck in my belt, aud my naked
sword was hanging by my side.
The three poor distressed creatures, loo anx-
ious to get any repose, were, however, seated
under the shade of a great true, about a quac-
ter of a mile from me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man following
'me, and, before I Wa* perceived, I-
aloud to them in Spanish, what (Ire
gentlemen.
At these words they started up in groat i _
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure
made ;- they returned no answer, bnt seemed
as if they'would fly from me: Gentlemen, ( sakb
1 in English,) don't le afraid, perhaps you
have a friend nearer than you expect.' lie
roust be from Heaven, said one of them<
gravely pulling off his hat, for we are past
all he]p in this world. All help is from Hea-
ven-, said I, but'Sir, as I have perceived every
action between you andtltr-se brutes since your
landing, only inform me how to assist you,
and I will do it to the utmost of my power.
Am I talking with God or man? said he, inr
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an
angel? Sir, said 1, my poor hitbit will ieW
you, I am a man and an Englishman, willing
to assist you, having but this servant only:
here are arms and ammunition: in/1 freely
your condition, can we save you? The story,
said he, is to long to relate, since our butchers,
are so near: but, Sir, I was master of thatship,-
my men have mutinied, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here. Are your
enemies gone? said I. No, replied he, (.point-
ing to a thicket,) there they lie, while my heart
trembles, lest,.having seen and heard us, they
should murder us al I. Have they fire-arms f
168
said I. They have but t'ro pieces, «aid he; -
one of which is left in the boat. He also
t(Ad me, there were two enormous villains
amongst them, that were the authors of tlm
mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
it might induce the rest to return to their obe-
dience. . _
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
eould desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun, with ptwder and
ball sufficient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other,
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain ( who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, Sirrah, said he, 'tis too late to call
for assistance, you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy; and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gun: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my ap-
proach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
Captain to keep them bound. After which
I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Cap-
tain, now their conqueror, submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious at-
ttntion. After this, I carried him and his two
companions into my little fortiiled castle, show-
ed them all my conveniences, and when tlii*
was over, we began to consider about regain-
ing the ship: he said that there were twenty-
six hands on board, wLo knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy ami
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attack
- them. This was a reasonable inference, in-
deed: but something we must resolve on, ami
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
she could not shoot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easy to be stopped j so
that all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with ten
men armed, whose faces the captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief ofli-
ccr; but he said there were three honest luds
among them, who wore forced into the conspi-
racy. Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage,
( for I had perceived he was in concern)- in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assistance, we thought
ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and amazement, thinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if

If ft
they would return to the ship. I could per--
ceive the Captain's countenancfe change at this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leapt
on shore, in order to search for their compa-
nions; and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distance ID the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and
weary, they at length seated themselves under
a spreading tree. My opinion was, that no-
thing could be done till night, when I might
Use some artifice to get them all out of the
boat; but of a sadden they started »p, and
made towards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the Captain's mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decoying them into the woods,
come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to ibe creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her> left two to look
after her, having fastened her to the stump of
a little tree on the shore. Hereupon imme-
diately the Captain and our party passing the
creek out of their sight, we surprised then*
both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death, and who being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time
it was pretty late; when the rest returning to
in
their boat, wbieh they found aground In titc
creek, the fide out, and the wen gone: they
,l-an about wringing their hands, crying it was
an enchanted island, and that they should b«3
&11 murdered by spirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, bull
would not agree to hazard any of our party.
- put to be more certain, Friday and the Cal>
tein crawled upon their hands and foot, as neat
as possible; and, when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, so eager was the Captain,
that he fired, and killed him on the spot: Friday
Knocked down the next man, and a third ran
away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and it being dark, 1 ordered the man
we had surprised in the boat, to call them by
their names, and to parley with them. Accord-
ingly he called aloud, Tom. Smith, Tom
Smith! He answered, IV ho'* that; Robinson!
.answered the other. For God s sake, Tom, stir-
render immediately^ or you're all dead man.
Who must we surrender to ? says Smith. TV
our Captain and a large force here, icho Itnve
taken me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and
killed the boatswain. Shall we have quarters
Jhen? said he. Hereupon the Captain calls
out, You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you s/iati have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins. Hereupon Atkins
cries out, What have I done, (Japtai'n, more
than tkf. fe'sf, who have be'efi as (tad as me;
bat that was a lie, for he was the person that
K' o
£

hold of him, nnd bownd IMW. However,
lie wne ordered to hehmit to the governor's
mercy, for such was I called. And so laying
down their arms, we bound them lail, and seized-
on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with
them, t<4lii g them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute thorn there:
.but he thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede lor their lives, and begged they might not
be Kent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cove, I sent the Cap-
tain to traat with them io the governor's name,
offering them pardon If they would assist in
recovering the ship. Ujion which, they all
promised to stead by him till'the last drop of
their blood; and whoever acted treacherously
s'lronld be lhangcd in chains upon the beach.
They <sv-ere all released on these assurances:
and then the Captain repaired to the other
treat, mukin-g hlis_ passenger Captain of her,
and gave him four men well armed; while
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the
-other boat. By midnight, they came within
call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
llobinson to hail her, and tell them tfrat with
-g-ri-ut drfliru'ky they had found the men at last.
Rut, while they were discoursing, the Captain,
hi* mate, and the jest entered, and knocked
*><*wn i.h« vor.ud while, and car punter,
1T3
those that were upon the deck, by pulling
theB) tmder hatches, while the otfier bout's
crew entered and secured the forecastle l llicjr
then broke into the round,-houi-e, where tlic
mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate
Captain through the bead, upon which, all the
rest yielded themselves prisoners. And thus
the whip being recovered, the joyful signal was
fired, which I heard with the greatest joy
imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the ship to an anchor at' the creek's mouth,
where comipg to mo unawares, T/iere, snys ho,
ffiy dearest friend n«\d deliverer, (here is your
ship, and tee qre yaur strvarifs: a comfort »Q
gnspcukable, as made me swoon in his arms,
while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten*
derly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, b-ut to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board.
JJereupon, concerting with the Captain, I
dressed myself in one of his suits, and sending
for them, told them, that as 1 was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry .there, their lives should be spared;
if not, they shoujd be hanged at the first port
they came' to. They agreed to stay. Here-
upon I told them my whole story, charging
them to be kind to the Spaniards that were cxr
pected, gave them all my arms, and informing
them of every thing necessary for their"subsist-
ence, I and my man Friday went on board.
^ ™

'174
th« next morning two of thfi men
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Cali-
tfiin to take them on boar«l, though ne hanged
them afterwards, Complaining mightily how
barbarously the others used them. Upon
which I prevailed with the Captain to taka
them in $ and being severely punished, they
proved more honest for the future. And so I
bid farewell to this island, carrying along with
we my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687,
after twenty-eight year*, two months and nine,
teen days residence, and landing in England,
June 11, 1088, after five and thirty years ab-
sence from my own country, which rendered
tye altogether a stranger there.
^
175
SUPPOSES TO BE WRITTEN ?Y ALE*. SSMU.RK,
OOKlNtt HIS SOLITARY ABODE IN THE
ISLAND OP JUAN FEUNANDKZ; IX WHICH
HE HAD LIVED QUITK ALONE, DUKrNtt
UPWARDS OF FOCR ?BA(IS.'

I AM monarch of all I s«r,vey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the soa,
1 am lord of the fowl and the brut?.
Oh, Sjolilude! where are tho ohartns
That sages have seen in thy ikce?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in flas horrible place.
It
I am out of humanity's ieach.
I must finish my journey arone,
Never hear tho sweet music of speech;
r1 start at the sound of my own.
Tlie beasis, that roam over tho plniij.
My form with indifference see;
Thfty are so unaCqnaintcd with i»an,
Thwr tamenoss is shocking to >»p.'
17*
III.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divmely hestow'd upon rann,
Oh, had 1 the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
in the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age.
And be cheer'd by the sallies of youih>
IV.
Religion! what treasure Untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all- that this earth can afford,
But the toll of the summoning bell
These valleys and rocks never hear£,
Ke'er sigh'd at the sound of a knell,
Or smil'd when a sabbath appear'd.
V.
Ye winds, that ha.ve made me yow spor^
Convey to this desolate shore,
Sorpe cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more*
My friends, do they now and then senfl
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I yet have a friend.
Though a friend I am never to see*
177
VI.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compar'd with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land,
.la a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas? recollection at hand
Soon hurries me hack to despair.
VIL
But the sea-fowl is gone to her ncs.t,
The beast is laid down in his lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to hi* lot.
Prmted by J. Jones, 4*>, S. (Jrcm GeargeVlt.
