  Jri—IMir—"" -^*
Hubbard'
Irasg. Voy.
34-0 5
•M
t
i.
 /7>
11OJ3J, iwo. ~w On rrsos,
,/,i- tA:i;///>',/ in /,!,/,' JJti .
THE
Irt F E
AND MOST
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORE, MARINES,
WHO LIVED EIGHT AKD TWENTY YEARS
IN AN
UNINHABITED ISLAND,
ON THE COAST OF AMERICA, NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE
CREAT RIVER OROONOQJJE*
WITH AN'
ACCOUNT OF HIS DELIVERANCE THENCE;
AND HIS AFTEB
SURPRISING ADVENTURES.
A Kcsxs Edition, complete in One Volume;
" WITH PLATES^ DESCRIPTIVE OF THE SUBJECT.
DUnBon:
PUBLISHED ANO SOLD BY THE BOOKSELLERS J
AND BY THOMAS WILSON AND SON, ?RINTC£Sj
HiCH-OUSEGATE, YORK,
mi.
if
PREFACE.
JlF ever the story of any private man's ad-
ventures in the world were worth making
public, and were acceptable when published,
the Editor of this account thinks this will
be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all
that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the
life of one man being scarce capable of a
greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seri-
ousness, and with a religious application of
events, to the uses to which wise men always
apply them, viz. to the instruction of others
by this example, and to justify and honour
the wisdom of Providence in all the variety
of our circumstances, let them happen how
they will.
A2
The Editor believes this narrative to be
just history of fact; neither is there any ap-
pearance of fiction in it ; and though he is
well aware there are many who, on account
of the very singular preservations the Author
met^with, willrgive it the name of romance;
yet, in which ever of these lights it shall be
viewed/ he imagines, that the improvement
of it, as well as the ^diversion; as to the in-
struction of the reader, will - be the same ,
and as such, he thinks, without farther
compliment to the world, he does them a
great sejvice in the publication.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
1 was born at York, in the year 1632, of a reputable fa-
mily. My father was a native of Bremen, who by mer-
chandizing at Hull for fome lime, gained a very plentiful
fortune. He married my mother at York, who received
her hrft breath in that country; and as her maiden name
was Robinfon, I was called Robin/on Kreutznaer/ which not
being eafily pronounced in the Engliih, tongue, we are
commonly known by the name of Crufoe.
I was cjhe youngeft of three brothers. The eldzfi was a
lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's regiment, but ilain by the
Spaniards: what became of the other I could never learn.
-No charge or pains were wanting in my education.—
My father deftgned me for the law, yet nothing would
ferve me but I muft go to fea, both againft the will of my
father, the tears of my mother, and the entreaties of friends.
One morning my father expoftulated very warmly with me;
What reafen, fays he, have you to leave your native coun-
try, where there muft be a more certain profpeft of con-
tent and happinefs, to enter into a wandering condition of
uneafinefs and uncertainty ? He recommended to me
Augur's with, ki Neither to defire poverty nor riches :>f
that a middle ftate of life was the rnoft happy, and that
the high towering thoughts of railing our condition by wan-
dering abroad, were furrounded with mifery aud danger,
and often ended with confulion and difappoktment. I
emreat you, nay, I command >ou, (fays he,) to defift from
thefe intertions. Confider your elder brother, who laid
down his life for his honour, or rather loft it for his difobe-
diVceto my will. Jf you will go., (add?d he,) my prayers
mail however be offered for your preservation; bat a time
may come, when defolate, opprefTed, or forfoken, you
A3
may wifh you had taken your poor defpifed father's counfeL
He pronounced thefe words with fuch a moving and pater-
nal eloquence, while floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks,
that it feemed-to flem the torrent of my refolutions. But
this foon wore off, and a little after I informed my mother,
that 1 could not fettle to any buftnefs, my refolutions wera
fo flrong to fee the world; and begged me would gain my
father's confent only to go one voyage ; which if it did not
prove profperous, I would never attempt a fcconJ. But my
defire was as vain as my foUy in a/king. Mv mother paf-
iionately exprefTed her diflike of this propofal, teiling me
*l That as (he faw 1 vvas bent upon my own dellro&ion, con-
" trary tb their will and my duty, (he wjuld Uy no more,
" but lea^e me to m) ft-If to do whatever I pieafed/'
1 was then, f think, nineteen years old, when on? lime be-
in^ at r-Iu!l, I met a fchool-feliow of min£ goi »g along wi.h
his father, who *as ma-fer of a (hip, to London j and ac-
quainting him with my wandering deiir.s, he aflured me of
a free pa/Tagc, and a plentiful flu re of what was neceflNry.
Thus without imploring a b'efling, or taki-g farewell cf my
parens, I to.<k (hipping on thefirft of September, 165 I. We
fee fail foon after, and our fhip had fcarce left the Humber
a-flert^ when there arofe fo v^ lent a florm, that beirg ex- ,
iremeJy fea-fick, i concluded the judgment of God deferv-
edly followed, me f« r my d fobedience to my d:ar parents.
It was then I called to minJ the good advice of my father;
how eafy and comfortable was a middle date cf life ; and
I firmly refolved, if it plea fed God to fet me on dry land
once more, I would return to my parent?, implore 'heir f r-
givenefs, and b'.d a final adieu to my wandering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the (lorm continued; but
thefe good refolutions decreafed with the danger ; more
efpecially when my companion came to me, clapping me on
the fhoulderi "What, Bob!" faid he, "fureyou was not
"frightened lad night with fcarce a capful of wind ?"—-
lt And do you," cried J, "call fuch a violent dorm a capful
•* of wind ?" u A dorm, you fool you 1" faid he, " this is no-
"thing: a good fhip and fea»room always baffles fuch a
" foolift) fquall of wind as that: But you're a frefh-water
" failor: Come boy, turn out, fee what fine weather we have
4f now, and a good bowl of punch will drown all your pad
" farrows." In fhort, the punch was made, I was drunk, and
in one night's time drowned both my repentance and my
 /t<'/'//t'if/i ( '/'fff.*t>f r //t//m vvv/ (fe// f/'f ./,.4-ff'/i
** \
good refolutions, forgetting entirely the vows and promrfes
I made in my diftrefs : and whenever any reflections would
return on me, what by company, and what by drinking, I
foon mallered thofe fits, as I deridingly called them. But
this only made way for another trial, whereby f could noc
but fee how much I was beholden to kind Providence,
Upon the fixch day we came to an anchor in Harwich
road, where we lay wind-bound with fome Newcaftlefhips;
and there bei^g good anchorage, and our cables found, the
feamen forgot their late toil and danger, and fpent the time
as merry as if they had been on (hore. But on the eighth day
there arofe a brifk gale of wind, which prevented our tiding
it up the river; and 11111 increafing, our fhip rode forecaftle
in, and (hipped feveral large (ess.
It was not long before horror feized the feamen thenv
felves, and I heard the mailer exprefs this melancholy
ejaculation, ,f Lord hive mercy upon us, we mall be all loll
and undone!" For my part, (ick unto death, I kept my cabin,
till the univerfal and terribly dreadful apprehenfions of our
fpeedy fate made me ge; upon deck; and there I was af-
frighted indeed. The lea went mountains high; I could
fee nothing but diftrefs around us ; two fhips had cut their
mails on b ard, and another was foundered ; two more that
had loft their anchors, were forced cut to the mercy of the
ocean: and to fave cur lives we were forced to cut our
foremall and mainmaft quite away.
Who is there fo ignorant as noc to judge of my dreadful
condition? I was but a frefh-water failor, and therefore ic
feerned more terrible. Our fhip was very good, but over-
loaded ; which made the failors often cry out, •' She would
" founder !'* Words I then was ignorant of: All this while
the llorm continuing, and rather increafing, the matter and
the moft lbber pare of his men went to prayers, expecting
death every moment. Tn the middle of the night one cried
out, (<We had fprung a leak i" another, t€ Thac there were
*4 four feet water in the hold !" I was juft ready to expire,
w'th fear, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me alfo in that extremity to
fhare^with them in their labour. While thus employed, the
mailer efpying fome light colliers, fired a gun as a lignal of
diftrefs ; and I, not underftanding what it meanr, and think-
ing that either the (hip broke, or fome dreadful thing hap-
pened, fell into a fwoon. Even in that common condition
A 4
of" wee, nobody minded me, excepting to thruft me affde
with their feet, thinking me dead, and it was a great while
before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when upon the fi gnal given, they
ventured out their boats to fave our lives. All oar pumping
had been in va'n,ar,d vainhadall our attempts been, had they
riot come to out fhip's fide, and our men caft them a rope over
the tlern wi.h a buoy to it, whrch after great labour they got
hold of, and we hauling them up to us, got into their boat,
and left our fhip, which we perceived fink within lefs than a
quarter of an hour ; and thus I learned what was meant by
foundey'tng ai fea. And now the men incefFantly laboured to
recover their1 own (hip ; but the fea ran fo high, and the wind
blew fa hard, that they thought it convenient to hale within
fhcre j which, with great diificu'ty and danger, at lail we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cromer, not far
from Widtertcn light-houfe; from whence we all walked to
Yarmouth, where as objects of pity, many good people fur-
ruined us with neo.-lTar.k-s to ca-ry us either to Hull or London.
Strange, after all this, Jlke the pro-Jbal fo*, I did net re-
turn to my father; who hearing of the ihip's calamity, for a
long time thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I fhould have Jhared on his fatted calf , as the Scripture
rxprefleth' it; but my ill fate Mill puihed me on, in fpite of
the powerful coi.vicVions of reafon and confeience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days, 1 met my
old companion, who had given me the invitation to go on
board a'ong with his father. His behaviour and fpeech
"were altered, and in a melancholy marner afked me how I
did, telling his father who I was, and how 1 had made this
voyage, only for a tri-d to proceed further abroad. Upon
wh'ch the old gentleman turning to me gravely, faid,
" Young man, )0u ought never to go to fea any more, but to
"take this 'for a certain fign that you never will profper in
"afcafaring condition." ''sir," anfwered I, "will-you
«' take the fame refoluuon ?" {ih is a diffeient cafe," faid
?he; " it is my calling, and confequcu;ly my duty; i>ut as
' you have made this voyage for a trial, you fee what ill
'«'fuccfefs Heaven has fet before your eyes ; and perhaps
"our mikries h>ve been on your account, like Jonah in the
" flvp of Tarjkifo. But pray what are you? and on what
" account did you go to fea?'' Upon which I very freely
declaied my whole itory ; at the end cf which he made this
exclamation, ie Yea facred Powers, what had X committed,
"tint fuch a wretch fhoold enter into my Chip to heap upon
" me fuch a deluge cf miferies!" But foon recollecting
his paffion, " Youn^ man," faid he, "if you do riot go back,
"depend upon ii, wherever you go, ycu will meet with
*' difafters and difappoimments till your father's words are
«' fulfilled upon you/' And fo we parted.
I thought at firft to return home; but Hume oppofedthat
good motion, as thinking I ihouldbe laughed "at by my neigh-
bours and acquaintance. So Grange is the nature of youth,
who are not aihamed to fin, but yet afhamed to repent; and
fo far frcrn being aihamed of thofc a&ions for which they
may be accounted fools, they think it folly to return to their
duty, which is the principal mark of wifdom. In (hort, I
travelled up to London, refolving upon a voyage ; and a
voyage I foon heard of, by my acquaintance with a captain
who lock a fancy to me, to go to tne coaft of Guinea. Hav-
ing fome moneyi and appearing like a gentleman, 1 went
on board, not,a? ai common. failor or fcremaft man ; nay,
the commander agteed I mould go that voyage with him
without any cxpenfej that I mould be. his. .mefsmate. and
companion, and I was very welcome to carry any thing
with me, ard make the be ft mercharidife I could,
1 blefTed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked my cap-
tain for this offer ; end acquainting my friends in Yorkmtre*
forty pounds were fent me, the gteateft part of wtrch my
dear father and mother contributed to, with which I bcughc
toys and trifles, as the captain directed me. My captain
alfo taught me navigation, how to keep an account of the,
fhip's courfe, take an obfervation, and led me into the know-
ledge of feveral ufefuLbranches of the mathematics. And
indeed this voyage made me both a failor and.a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces orgold dull for
ipy adventure, whxh produced at my return to London**
almoft three hundred pounds. But in this voyage I was ex-
tremely fick,, being thrown into a violent calenture through
the exceflive heat, trading upon the coaft from the latitude
. qF fifteen degrees north, even to the line itfelf.
But alas 1 my dear friend, the captain, foon departed tnis
life after his arrival. This was a fenfible grief torrte; yet,
I refolved to go another voyage with his mate, who had
now got command of the fhlp. This, proved a very unfuc-
cessfui one; for though I did not carry quite-"a hundred
AS
pounds of my late acquired wealth, (fo that I had two hun-
dred pounds left, which I repofed with the Captain's widow,
who was an heneft gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes in
this unhappy voyage were very great. For our fhip failing
towards uthe Canary iflands, we were chafed by a Salee
rover; and in fpile of all the hafte we could make, by crowd-
ing as much canvas as our yards could fpread, or our mails
carry, the pirate gained upon us, fo that we prepared our-
felves to fight. They had eighteen guns, and we had but
twelve. About three in the afternoon there was a defperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wounded on
both, fides; but finding ourfelves overpowered with num-
bers, our fhip difabled, and ourfelves too impotent to have
the leaft hopes of fuccefs, we were forced to furrender; ard
accordingly were all carried prifoners in?o the port of Salee.
Our men were fent to the Emperor's court to be fold there;
but the pirate captain taking notice of me, kept me to be
his own flaye.
In this condition, I thought myfelf the moll miferable
creature on earth, and the prophecy of my father came afrefh
into my thoughts. However, my condition was better than
I thought it 10 be, as will foon appear. Some hopes indeed
I had that my new patron would go to fea again, where he
might be taken by a Spanifh orPortuguefe man of war, and
rhen I fhould be fet at liberty. But in this I was miftaken ;
for he never took me with him, but left me to look after his
little garden, and do the drudgery of his houfe ; and when he
returned from fe», would make me lie in the cabin, and
look after the (hip. I had no one that I could communicate
jnjr .thoughts to, which were continually meditating my
fcffcape ; no Englifhman, Irithman. or Scotchman here, but
myfelf; and for-two years 1 could fee nothing practicable,
tut enly pleafed myf If with the imagination.
After fome leng h of time, my patron, a* I found, grew fo
poor that he could not fit out his fhip as ufual; and then he
ufed ccnftamly, once or twice a week, if the weather was
fair, to go out a fifhing, taking me and a young Morefco boy
to row the boat ; and fo much pleafed was he with rr.e for
my dexterity in catching the fifh, that he would often fend,
me with ia Moor, who was one of his kinfmen, and the Mo-
refco youth, to catch a diih of 'fifh for him.
One morning, as v\e were at the fport, the?e arofe fuch
a'thicfo log, ihn we loft fight of the more; and rowing we
knew not which way, we laboured all the night, and In the
morning fouod ourfelves in the ocean, two leagues from
land. However, we attained there at 'ength, and made the
greater hafte, becaufe our fiamachs were exceedingly fharp
and hungry. In order to prevenc fuch difafters for the
future, my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little ftate-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, with a place
behind it to fleer and hale home the main fheet, with other
conveniences to keep in from the weather ; as aifo lockers to
put in all manner of provifions, with a handfome fhoulder
of mutton fail, gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us out a fiiliing ; and onetime
inviting two or three perfons of diftinclion to go with him,
made provifions extraordinary, providing alfo three fufees,
with powder and fhor, that ttiey might have fome fport at
fowling along the fea-coaft. The next morning the boat
was made clean, her arcient and pendants out, and every
thing ready ; but their minds altering, my patron ordered
us to go a filhing, for that his guefts would certainly fup
with him that night.
And now 1 began to think of my deliverance indeed. In
order to this 1 perfuadcd the Moor to get fome provifions
on board, as not daring to meddle with our patron's; and
he taking my advice, we ftored ourfeives with ruflc bifcuit,
and three jars of water. Betides, I privately conveyed
into the boat a bottle of brandy, fome twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a faw ; and, in particular, fome bees-wax,
which was a great comfort to me, and ferved to make can-
dles. Ithenperfuaded Muley (for fo was the Moor called)
to procure fome powder and (hot, pretending to kill fea cur.-
Jews, which he innocently and readily agreed to. Jn (hort,
being provided with all things neceflary, we failed out, re-
folving for my own part to make my efcape, though it mould
coft me my life.
When we hid pallid- the caftle, we fell a fifliing ; but
though I knew there was a bite, I disenabled the matter, in
order to put out further to fea. Accordingly we ran a league^
further; when giving tiie boy the-r. elm, and pretending to
ftoop for fomething, 1 feisei Muley by furpiife and threw
him overboard. As he w:s an excellent hvimmer, he foon
arvfc, and made towards the boat;, upon which, I took out
a fufee, and \ refented at him: *' Muley," faid 1, " I never
"yet ddigned to do you any harm, and feek nothing new
AG
* * but.m y redemption. I know you are able enough to f*vim
"to ftiore, and fave your life; bat if you are refolved to
"follow me, to the erdangering of mine, the very moment
"ycu proceed, I will {hoot you through the head/' The
harmlefs1 creaiure at thefe words, turned himfelf from me,
and I make no doubt get fafe to lard. Then turning to the
bey Xury, I perceived he trembled at the a£lion ; but I put
him out of asl fear, telling him, that if he would be true and
faithful to me, I would do well by him. " And therefore/*
faid J, "") ou mult ftroke your face to be faithful; and, as the
"Turks have learned you, fwear by Mahomet,and the beard
*' of your father, or el'e I will throw ym into the fca alfo."
So innocent !did the child then look, and with fuch an oblig-
ing fmile confented, that I readily believed him, and from
that day forward began 10 love him entirely.
We th< n purfued our voyage j and left they (hould think
me gone to the (traits' mouth, I kept to the fouthward to
the truly Barbarisn coaft ; but in the dufk of the evening, I
changed my couife, and Peering direclly S. and by E. that I
might keep near the fhoze ; and having a frefh gale of wind',
with a pkafant fmooth fea, by three o'ekek next day I was
one hundred and fifty miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
"dominions. Yet Hill having the dreadful apprenenficn of
being retaken, I continued failing for five days fuccefiively,
till fuch time as the wind fhifiing to the fouthward, made rr«?
conclude, that if any veffel was in chafe of me, they would
proceed no farther. Alter fo much fatigue and thought, I
anchored at the mouth of a little river, 1 knew not what or
where; neither did I then fee any people. What I principally
wanted was frefh water \ and I was refolved about dufk to
fwim afhore. But no fooner did the gloomy clouds of night
begin to iucceed the declining day, when we heard fuch
barki-ng, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, that one
might have thought the very flrongeft mongers of nature, or
infernal fpirits had their nfidenee there. Poor Xury, almoft
dead with fear, entreated me not to go on (bore that night.
"Suppolirg 1 dt.n't', Xury," faid I, "and in the morning we
" fliould fee men who ate worfe than thofe we fear, what
"thenf uOdenwemaygivedemdeihco*gun,,?repliedXury,
laughing, "ard de gun make dem all run away.*' The wit and
broken Englifh which the boy had lean ed among the captives
of our natiori, p'eafed n e entirely; and to add to his chter-
fulncfs, I gave him a dram of the boUle. We could get bus
Utile fleep all the night forthofe terrible bowlings they made;
and, i-ideed, we were both very much affrighted, when, by
the rolling of the water, and other tokens, wejuftly con-
cluded oneof thofe mcnfters made towards our boat.- 1 cou'd
not fee, till it came within two oars length, when- taking my
fufec, I let fly at him. Whether I hit him cr no, I cannot
tell ; but he made towards the mo e, and the noife of my
gun increafed the ftupcndous noife of the mongers.
The next morning I was refolved 10 go on (bore to get
frefh water, and venture my life among the beafts or favage?,
ibould either all-ck me. Xury faid, he would take one of
the jars a. d brirg me fame. I afeed him, wiiv he would
go, and not 1 r The poor boy anGvered, " if wild mans come,
t^ey eat me, you go away." A m nd fcarcely now to be
imitated, fo con:rar/ to.felf-prefervation, the meft powerful
law of Nature, This, i-.deed, incieafe.1 my aiFe&ions to the
cMld. u VVe'l, dear KGr}'," faid I, " we will both go afh-re,
toth kill wild mar.*, and they (ha'J eat neither of us." Sj
giving Xjry a piece of rufk-bread to ear, and a dram, we
waded alhorcj causing nothing with cs but cur arms, and
two jars cf water. 1 did rot go out of light of the boat, as
dreadir g the fa* ages coming down the rivtr in their canoes;
tut the boy feeing alow defctnt or vale about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it ; and then running back to me
with great precipita ion, 1 thought he was puifued by fome
favage or- wild be aft ; upt.n which I approached, revolving
lo perfh or protedl him from danger. As he came neartr -
.to me, I faw fomething hanging ever his (boulders, which
was a creature he had fhotlike a hare, but different in colour,
end longer lees; however we wete gl d of it, fcr it proved
wholefomeand nour'filing meat: but what added to our joy
was, my boy affured me there wa9 plenty of water, and that
he fee no wild mans. And grea'er itill was our comfort, when
tne tide was out, wiilkut going fo far up into the country.
Jn this pace 1 began toe :>r.f*der that the Canaty andCape
d«? Verce iflands lay net far eff; but having no instrument,
1 knew not what latitude, or when to Hand off to fea for .
them; yet my hopes were t fhould meec fome of the Eng-
lish traciirg veffels, who would relieve and take us in.
The place I was in was no deubt that wild country, ia-
habited only by a few, that lies between the Emperor of
Mcrocco's dominions and the Negroes, it is filled with
wild beads, and the Moors ufe U for hunting chiefly. £*on*
this place I thought I faw the top of the mountain TenerifF
in the Canaries; which made me try twice to attain it;
but as ofcen was I drove back, and fo forced to purfue my
fortune along more.
E-arly one morning we came to an anchor under a little
point of land, but pretty high: and the tide beginning t®
flow, we lay ready to go further in. Bat Xury, whofe
youthful and penetrating e)es were (harper than mine, in a
foft tone, defired me to keep far from land, lell we (hould
be devoured, *' For look yonder, matter," faid he, .«* and-fee
" de dreadful monfter fafl afleep on de fide of de hill."—
Accordingly, locking where he pointed, 1 efpied a fearful
monfter indeed. It was a terrible great lion that lap on
ihore, covered as it were by a (hade of a piece of the hill.
** Xury," faid I, " you (hall go on more and kill him." But
the boy looking amazed : <fcMe kill him I" fays he,<( he eat
me at one mouth;"" meaning.one mouthful. Upon which I
bid him lie fliil, and charging my biggeft gun with two
flugs, and a good charge of powder, 1 tcok the beft aim f
could to (hoot him* through the head, but his leg lying over
his nofe, the Aug broke his knee bone. The lion awaking
with the pain, got up, but foon fell down, giving the moil
hideous groan-1 ever heard; but taking my fecond piece,
I (hot him through the head, and then he lay flruggling for
life. Upon this Xury took heart, and defired my leave to
go on (hore. " Go then," faid I. Upon which taking a
little gun in one hand, he fwam to (bore with the other, and
coming clofe to the lion, put a period to his life by (hooting
him again through the head.
But this was fpending our ammunition in vain, the flem
not being gcod to eat. Xury was like a champion, and
comes on board for a hatchet, to cut off the head of his ene-
my; but not having (Irength to perform it, he cut off and
brought me a foot. I bethought me, however, that his (kin
would be of ufe. This work coil: Xury and me a whole
day; when fpreading it on the top oi our cabin, the hot
beams of the fun efTecluilly dried it in two days' time, and
it afterwards ferved me f:r a bed to lie on.
And now we failed foutherly, living fparingly on our pro-
viilon?, and went no oftener on (hore than we were obliged
for Freih water. My defign was to make the river Gambia
or Senega], or any where about the Cape de Verde, in hopes
to mtet fome European (hip. U Providence did not fo fa*
'^
'"'",
"•>,
  V
I?
'W-
^y*M
  )St<>r/ti,it>ji (///.>(>( 11/11//tf,> /•<>//• ////// c/t //.
7
vour me, my next courfe was to feek for the iflands, or Iofe
my life amongft the Negroes. And, in a word, I put my
whole flrefs upon this, " Either that I muft meet with
fome (k\p, or certainly perid!."
One day as we were failing along, we faw people fland
on the more looking at us; we could alfo perceive they
were black and Hark naked. I was inclined to go on fhore*
but Xury cried, "No, no;" however, 1 approached nearer,
and I found they run along the fhore by me a good way.
They had no weapons in their hands, except one, who held
a long flick, which Xury told me was a lance, with which
they could kill at a great diftance. 1 talked to them by figns,
and made them fenfible I wanted fomething to eat ; they
beckoned me to flop my boat, while two of them ran up
into the country,, and in lefs than half an hour came back,
and brought with them two pieces of dried flem and fome
corn, which we kindly accepted ; and to prevent any fears
on either fide, they brought the food to the more, laid it
down, then went and flood a great way off till we fetched
it on board, and then came clofe to us again.
But while we were returning thanks to them,, being all'we
could afford, two mighty creatures came from the mountains;
one as it were purfuing the other with great fury, which we
were the rather inclined to believe, as they feldom appear
but in the night j and both thefe fwiftly pafling by the ne-
groes, jumped into the fea, wantonly fvvimming about, as
though the diverfion of the waters had put a Sop to their fierce-
nefe, At laft one of them coming nearer to my boat than I
expedled or deiired, I fhot him direc"lly through the head; upon
which he funk immediately, yet rifing again* would have
willingly made the fhore; but between the wound and the
ftrangling of the water, he died before he could reach it.
It is impoffible to exprefs the confternation the poor Ne-
groes were in at the firing of my gun ^ much lefs can I men-
tion trurir furprife, when they perceived the creature to be
flain by it. I made figns to them to drav near it with a
rope, and then gave it them to hale on mare. It was abeau-
tiful leopard, which made me defire its flcin, and the Ne-
groes feeming to covet the carcafe,.l freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to fhore, and ran with pro-
digious 'fvviftnefs out of fight* The Negroes having kindly
furniihed me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, I took my have, and after eleven
days fail/came in fight of t"re Cape de Verde, and thofe
iflands called by its name. But the great dillance I was from
ir, and fearing contrary winds would prevent my reaching
them, I begun to gro»v melancholy *nd dejected, when, upon
a fuddti^, Xury cried out, " Matter ! Mailer f a fhip with a
fail!" and looking as arTrighied as if it was his matter's fhip
fent in fearch of us. But I ilon difcovered fhe was a Por-
tuguefe fliip, as I thought bound to the coaft of Guinea for
Negroes. Upon which I flrove for life to come up to them.
But vain had it been, if through their perfpective glaffes the/
had r.ot perceived me andihortened their fail to let me come
up. Encouraged at this, I fet up my patron's ancient, and
iired a gun, both as fignals of diltrefs; upon which they
very kindly lay to, fo t^.at in three hours time I came up
with them. They fpoke to me in Portuguefe, Spanim, and
French, but nor.e of thefe did 1 underiland; till at length
a Scots failcr called, and dun I ccld him I was an English-
man, who had efcaped from the Mors at Salee; upon
which they took me kindly on board, with, all my effects*
Surely none can exprels the inconceivable joy I felc at
this happy deliverance i who from being a late miferable
and forlorn creatu e, was not only relieved, but in favour,
with the matter of the illip, to whom in return for my de-
liverance, 1 offeied all 1 had. "Gcd forbid/' faid he,
'« that I ihculd take any thing from ycu. Every thing fhaii
<cbe delivered to )cu when you come to Brazil. If 1 have
ti faved )Our life, it is no more than I fhould expect to re^
" ceive myfelf from any other, when in (he fame circum-
" ilance I fhould happen to meet the like deliverance.—
" And fliou!d I take from you what you have, and leave you
*'at Brazil, why, this would be only taking away a life I
<r had given. My charity teaches me better. Thole effects
*} you have will fupport you there, and provide you a paf-
" fage home again." And, indeed, headed with the fhict-
eil jullice in what be did, taking my things into his ptfTef*
lion, and giving me an exact inventory, even to my earthen.
jars. He bought my boat of me for the fhip's ufe, giving
me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brazil; and
if any body offered more he would make it up, He alfo
gave me fixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was with great
reluctance I was prevailed upon to fell the child's liberty*
who had feived me fo faithfully; but the boy ws» willing
^imftif; and it was agreed, that after ;en years he fhould
be made free, upon his renouncing Mahometanifm, and
ern-b»acing Ciiriftianity.
Having a pleafant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived in
the Bay de Todos los.Santos, or All Saints Bay, in twenty-
two days after. And here f cannot forget the generous
treatment of the captain. He would lake nothing for ray
paiTage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's fkin, and
tnirty for the lion's. Every thing he caufed to be d-Iivered,
and what I would fell he bought. In frnrt I made about
220 pieces of my cargo; and with this Hack I en;ered
once more, as I may fay, into the fcene of life.
B^ing recommended to an honeft planter, I lived with
him tiilfuch time as I was informed of the manner of their
planting and making fugar; and feeing how well they
lived, and how fuddenly they grew rich, 1 was filled with a
defire to fetlle among them, and refolved to get my money
remitted to me, and to purchafea plantation.
To be brief, I bought a fettlement next door to an honeft
and kind neighbour, bom at Lifbon, of Eng-fim parents,
fchofe plantation joining to mu:e, we improved it very ami-
cably together. Both cur ilocks were low, and for two
years we planted only for food : but the third year we
planted fome tobacco, and each of us drefTed a large piece
of ground the enfuing year for planting canes. But now
I found how much I wanted affiilance, and repented the
3o s of my dear boy Xury.
Having none to affilt me, my father's words came into
my mind ; and I ufed to afk myfelf, if what I fought was
only a middle ftation of life, why could it not as well be ob-
tained in England as here ? When I pondered en this with
regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance forfook me. I
had none to converfe with but my neighbour; no work to be
done but by my own hands j it often made me fay, my con-
dition *as like to that of a rran caft upon a defolate iiland.
So unhappy ate we in our reflections, fo forgetful of what
good things we receive ourfeives, and fo unthankful for
our deliverance ftom.thofe calamities that others endure.
1 was in fome meafure fettled, before the captain who
took me up departed from the Brazils. One day I went to
him, and told him what ilock I had in London, deiiring his
affiilance in geting it remitted ; to which- the good gentle-
man readily conferred, but wou'd only have me frnd for
half my money, leit it lliould mifcarry j which if it did 1
might ftill have the remainder to fupport me: and fo taking
letters of procuration of me, bid me trouble myfelf no far-
ther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindnefs towards me ; for
he not only procured the money I had drawn for upon my
captain's widow, but fent roe over a fervant with a cargo
proportionable to my condition. He alfo fent me over
tools of all forts, iran-work, and u-tenfils necefTary for my
plantation, which proved to be of the greateft ufe to me
in my bufinefs-.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon fuccefs
crowning my profperous labours, I might; have relied happy
in that middle /late of life my father had fo often recom-
mended ; yet nothing would content me, fuch was my evil
genius, but I mull: leave this happy (ration, for a foolifh am-
bition in rifing ; and thus, once more, I caft rnyfelf into the
greateft gulf of mifery that ever poor creature fell into.
Having lived four years in Brazil* I had not only learned
the language, but comraded acquainfarce with the molt
eminent plan?ers, and even the merchants of St. Salvador;
to whom, once, by way of difcourfe, having given account
of my two voyages-to the coaft of Guinea, and-the manner
of trading there for mere trifles, by which we furnifti our
plantations with negroes, they gave fuch attention to what I
faid, that three of them came one morning to me, and told
me they had a fee ret propofal to mabvv After enjoining me
to fecrecy, (it being an infringement on the powers of the
kings of Portugal and Spain,) they told me they had a mind
to fit out a (hip to go to Guinea, in order to ftcck, the plan*
ration with Negroes, which as they could not be publicly
fold, they would divide among them ; and if I would go
their fuper-cargo in the (hip to manage the trading pan, I
fhould have an equal (hare of the Negroes,, without provi-
ding any flock. The thing indeed was fair enough,- had I
been in another condition. But I was born to be my own
^eilroyer, could.not refill the propofal, but.accepted the of-
fer upon condition of" their looking after my plantation. So
making a formal will, I bequeathed my.effzcls to my good
friend the captain, as my univerfal heir ; but obliged him
to difpofe of my effects as. direcled, one half of the produce
to hiri3fe!f,.and the other to be (hipped to England.
The (hip being fitted out, and all things ready, we fet
fail the iirit of September, 1659) being the fame day eight
years I left my father and mother in Ycrkfhire. We failed
northward upon the coaft, in order to gain Africa, till we
made Cape Auguftine j from whence going farther into the
ocean out of fight of land, we fleered as though we were
bound for the IRe Fernand de Norenba, leaving the iflands
on the eail; and then it was that we met with a terrible
tempeft, which continued for twelve days fuccefiively, fo
that the winds carried us wherefoever they pleafed. In this
perplexity one of our men died, and one man and a boy
were wafhed overboard. When the weather cleared up. a
little, we found ourfelyes in eleven degrees north latitude,upon
the coal! of Guinea. Upon this the captain gave reafons
for returning; which I oppofed, counfeiling him to ftand
away for Barbadces, which, as I fuppofed, might be attained
in fifteen days. So altering our courfe, we failed nortk-
weft and by wen1, in order to reach the Leeward ifia^ds ;
but a fecond fiorrn fucceeding, drove us to the weflward;
fo that we wi're juilly afraid of failing into the hands of
cruel favages, or the paws of devouring b:*afts of prey.
In this gteat diitrels, one of our men, early in the morn-
ing, cried our, (( Land, land!" which he had no foonercried
out, but our fhip llruck upon a fand-bank, and in a moment
the fea broke over her in /uch a manner, that we expecled
we mould ail have periihed immediately,*/ We knew no-
thing where we were, or upon whu land we were driven;
whether an ifland cr the main, inhabited or not inhabited;
and we could not fo much as hope that the fhip would hold out
many minutes, without breaking in pieces, except the wind,
by a miracle, fhould turn about immediately. While we
flood looking at one another, expecting death every moment,
the mate lays hold of the boat, and with the help of the reft
got her flung over the fhip's fide, and getting all into her,
being eleven of us, committed ourfelves to God's mercy and
the wild fea. And now we faw that this laft effort would
not be fufficient protection from deaths fo high did the fea
rife, that it was impofftble the boat fhould live. As to
making fail, we had none; neither if we had, could we
make ufe of any. So that when we had rowed, or rather
were driven about a league and a half, a raging wave, like
a lof.y mountain, came Tolling a-ilern of us,, and took us
with fuch fury, that at once it overfetthe boat. Thus being
fwallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call upon
the tremendous name of God; much lefs to implore, in dying
ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive our departing fouls*
20' liee And adventures
Men are generally counted infenfible when ft ragging Inr
the pangs of death; but while I was overwhelmed with
water, I had the moft dreadful apprehenfions imaginable.
For the joys of heaven and the torments of hell, Teemed to
pirefent themfelves before me in thefe dying agonies, and
even fmallfpace of time,.as it were/between life and death;
I was going I thought I knew not whither, into a difmal
gulf unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
my friends, nor the light of this world any more ! Pould f
even have thought of annihilation, or a total diffjlution of
foul as well as body/the gloomy thoughts of having no far-
ther being* no knowledge of what we hoped for, but an
eternal quietus, without life or fenfe: even that, I fay,
would have been enough to ftrike me with horror and con-
fufion ! I ilrovc, however, to the laft extremity, while all
my companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep*, and it was with great difficulty I k?pt my breath till
the wave fpent itfelf, and retiring back, left me on the fhore
half dead with the water I had taken in. As foon as I got-
on my feet, I ran as faft as I could, left another wave
ihould purfue me, and^carry roe back again. But for all
the hafie I made, I could not avoid it: for the fea came
after me like a high mountain, or furious enemy ; fo that
my bufinefs was to hold my breath, and by raifmg myfelf
on the water, preferve it by fvvimming. The next dread-
ful wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep, but at
the fame time carried me with-a mighty force and fwiftnefs
towards the fhore; when railing myfelf, T held out as well
as poffible, till at length the water having fpent itfelf, be-
gan to return, at which I itruck forward, and feeling ground
with my feet I took to my heels again. Thus being ferved
twice more, I was at length darned againft a piece of rock,
in fuch a manner as left me fenfclefs; but recovering a
little before the return of the wave, which, no doubt, would
then have overwhelmed me, I held faft by the rock till thofe
faceteding waves abated; and then fetching another run,
was overtaken by a fmall wave, which was foon conquered.
But before any more could overtake me, I reached the main
lanJ, when clambering up the clifts of the fhore, tired and
almMl fpent I fat down on the grafs, free from the dangers
of the foaming ocean. ^
No tongue can exprefs the ecftalies and tranfports that
my foul felt at the happy deliverance. It was like a reprieve*
to a dying' malefactor, with a halter about his neck, and
ready to be turned eff. I was wrapt up in contemplation,
and often lifted up my hands, with the profoundeft humility,
to the Divine Power?, for faving my life, when the reft of
my companions were all drowned. And now I began to
ca'ft my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
.what I had next to do. I could fee no houfe nor people; I
was wet, yet had no clothes io fhift me ; hungry and thirfty,
yet had nothing to eat cr drink ; no weapon to deitroy any
creatures for my fuftenance, ncr defend my felf againft de-
vouring beads ; in fhort, I had nothing but a knife, a
tobacco pipe, and a box half filled with tobacco. Th,e
<larkfome night coming on upon me, increafed my fears of
being devoured by wild creatures ; my mind was plunged
in defpair, and having no profpect, as I thought, of life be-
fore me, I prepared lor another kind of death than what I
had lately efcaped. I walked about a furlong to fee if I
could find any frefti water, which I did to my great joy;
and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got up
into a thick bulhy tree, and fealing myfelf fo that 1 could
not fall, a deep fleep overtook me, and for that night buried
any farrows in a quiet repofe,
It was broad day the next morning before I awaked;
when I not only perceived the tempeft was ceafed, but faw
the fhip driven almofr. as far as the rock be fore-mentioned,
which the-waves had dafhed me again!*, and which was
about a mile from the place where 1 was. When I came
down from.my apartment in the tree, 4 perceived the fhip's
boat two miles diflant on my right-hand, lying on fhore, as
the waves had cafl her. I thought to have got to her; but
there being an inlet of water of about half a mile's breadth
between it and me, I returned again towards the Ihip, as
hoping to find femething for my more immediate fubfift-
ence. About noon, when the fea was calm, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of her, it was to my grief that I
perceived, that if we had kept en board all our lives had
been favfd. Thefe thoughts, and my folkude, drew tears
from my eyes, though all in vain. So refolving to get to
*he lhip, I ft ripped and 1-eapt into the water; when fwim-
ming round*her, I was afraid J fhould not get any thing to
lay hold of; but it was my good fortune to efpy a fm all
piece of rope hang down by the fore-chains, fo low that by
<£he help of it, though with great difficulty* I got into the
forecaftle of the fhip, Here I found that the fhip was
bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold ; her flern
was lifted up apainft a bank, and her head almoft to the
water. AH her quarters, and what was there, was free and
dry. The provifions I fcund in good order, with which I
crammed mv pookets, and lofing no time, ate while I was
doing other things; I alfo found Come rum, of which I took
a hearty dram; and now I wanted for nothing except a
boat, which indeed was all, to carry away what was need-
ful for me.
Necefiity dccafions quicknefs of thought. We had fe-
veral fpare yards, a fpare topmaft or two, and two or three
large fpars of wood. With thefe I fell to work, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage, tying every
one of them with a rope, that they might not drive away.
This done I went down to the (hip's fide, and tied four of
them faft together at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three fiiort pieces of plank upon them croflwife, I
found it would bear me, but not any confiderable weight.
Upon which I went to work again, cutting a fpare topmaft
into three lengths, adding them to my raft with a great deal
of labour and pairs. I then confidered what I fhould load
it with, it being not able to bear a ponderous burden. And
this I foon thought of, fir ft: laying upon it all the planks and
boards I could get; next 1 lowered down three of the fea-
men's chefts, after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheefes, five pieces of dried goat's fle/h, and fome
European corn, what little the rats had fpared; and for
liquors, I found feveral cafes of bottles belonging to our
fkipper, in which were fome cordial waters, and four or
Jive gallons of rack, which I flowed by themfelves, By
this time the tide beginning to flow, I perceived my coat,
waiftcoat, and fhirt, fwim away, which I had left on the
ihore; as for my linen-breeches and ltockings, I fwam with
them to the Ihip; but I foon found clothes enough, though!
took no more than I wanted for the prefent. My eyes were
chiefly on tools to work with ; and, after a long fearch, I
found out the carpenter's cheft, which I got fale down on
my raft. I then looked for arms and ammunition, and in the
great cabin found two good fowling-pieces, two piftols, fe-
veral powder-horns filled, a fmall bag of Jhot, and two old
jufty fwords. I likewife found three barrels of powder,
two of which were good, but the third had taken water,
alfo two or three broken oars, two faws, an ax, and a ham-
mer. I then put to Tea, and in getting to fhore had three
encouragements. 1. A fmooth calm fea. 2. The tide
riling and fetiing in to lhore. 3. The little wind there was
blew towards the land. After I had failed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little diftance from the place where
I firft landed ; and then I perceived a little opening of the
land, with a ftrong current of the tide running into it: up-
on which I kept the middle of the dream. But great was
my concern, when on a fudden the forepart of my raft ran
aground, fo that had I not, with great difficulty, for near
half an hour, kept my back /training a^ainft the chefls to
keep my effe&s in their places, all I had would hav? gone
into the fea. But after fome time, the rifing of the water
caufed the raft to float again, and coming up a little river
with land on both iides, I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as poffible, the better to difcover a fail, if any fuch
providentially paffed that way.
Not far off, I efpied a hill of ftupendous height, fur-
rounded with lelTer hills about it, and thither I was refolved
to go and view the country, that I might fee what part
was bed to fix my habitation. Accordingly, arming my-
felf with a pidol, a fowling-piece, powder and ball, I af-
cended the mountain. There I perceived I was in an ifland,
encompaffed by the fea, no diftant lands to be feen but
fcattering rocks that lay to the weft: that it feemed to
be a barren place, and as I thought, inhabited only bv wild
beafts. I perceived abundance of fowls, but ignorant of
what kind, or whether good for nourilhment; I mot one of
them at my return, which cccafioned a confufed fcreaming
among the other birds, and I found it by its colour and beak
to be a kind of hawk, but its flelh was perfect carrion.
When 1 came to my raft, I brought my effects on fhore,
which work fpent that day entirely ; and fearing that fome
cruel beads might devour me in the night time while I llept, I
made a kind of hut or barricade with the chefts and boards
I had brought on more. That night I flept very comfort-
ably ; and the next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt on the fhip, and bring away what
neceffaries I could find, before another dorm (hould break
her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as before, and
prepared a fecond raft far more nice than the fird,, upon
which I brought away the carpenter's ftores, two or three
1bags full of nails, a great jack-fcrew, a dczen cr two of
hatchets, and a grkid-fione. 1 alfotook away feveral thing«v
that belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three iron
crows, two barrels of mufket-bullcts, another fowling piece,
a firtall quantity of powder, and a large bagful of fmall fhot.
Befides thefe, I took all the men's clothes I could find, a
fpare fore top-fail, a hammock> and fome bedding; 2nd
thus completing my fecend cargo, 1 made all the hafle to
fhore I could, fearing fome wild beaft might deftroy what
3 had there already. But I 'Only found a little wild cat
fitting on one of the.chefts, which feeming not to fear me
or the gun that I prefented at her, I threw her a piece of
bifcuit, .which fhe injtantly ate and departed.
When I had gotten thefe effects on.more, I went to work,
in order to make me a little tent with the failand fome poles
which I had cut for that purpofe; and having finifhed it,
what things might be damaged by the weather I brought
in, piling all the empty chefts and cafks in a circle, the
better to fortify it againfl any fudden attempt of man or
beaft. After this I blocked up the doors with fome boards,
and an empty cheft, turned the long w,ay out. I then
charged my gun and piflol, and laying my bed on the
ground, flept as comfortably, till next morning, as though I
had been in a Chriflian country.
Now, though I had enough to.fubfift me a long time, yet
defpairing of a fudden deliverance, or that both ammunition
acd provifion might be fpent before fuch thing happened, I
coveted as much as I could; >and fo long as the fhip re-
mained in that condition, I daily brought away one necef-
fary or .other ; particularly the rigging, fails, and cordage,
fome twine, a barrel of wet .powder, fome fugar, a barrel
of meal, three cafks of rum, and, what indeed was moil
welcome to me, a whole hogfhead of bread.
The next time 1 went I cut the cables in pieces, carried
off a hawfer whole, with a great deal of iron-work, and
made another raft with the mizen and (prit-fail yard; but
this being fo unwieldy, by the too heavy burden I had upon
it, and not being able.fo dexterouily to guide it as the former,
both my cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all
trie damage 1 fuftained was a wet fkin ; and, at low water,
after much labour in diving, I got moll of the cables, and
fome pieces of iron.
Thirteen days I had now been in the ifland, and eleven
times en board, brirging away all that was poliible; and I
believe tad the weather been calm, I mould have brought
away the whole fhip piece by piece. As I was going the
twelfth time, the wind began to rife; however 1 ventured
at low water, and rummaging the cabin, in a locker 1 found
feveral razors, fciifors, and fome dozens of knives, and
foiks; and in another thirty-fix pounds of pieces of eight,
filver and grid. "Ah! fimple vanity/' faid \9 *4 whom
"this' world fo much dotes on, where is now thy virtue, thy
*'excellency to me? You cannot procure me one thing
" needful, nor remove me from this defolate ifland to a
** place of plenty. One of thefe knives, fo meanly efteemed,
Af is to me more preferable th^n all this heap. E'en, there-
-*cfore, remain where thou art, to fink in the deep as uare-
*' garded, even as a creature whofe life is not worth prc-
*' ferring." Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt it up in a
piece of canvas, and began to think of making another raft :
but I foon perceived the wind bgan to arife, a frefh gale
blowing from the fhore, and the fky overcaft with clouds
and darknefs ; fo thinking a raft to be in vain, I let m/felf
into the water, with what things 1 had about me, and it was
with much difficulty I got afhore, when foon after it blew
a fearful ftorm.
That night 1 flept very contentedly in my little tent, fuf-
rounded with all my effects; but when 1 looked out in the
morning, no more (hip was to be feen. This much fur-
prifed me for the rrefent; yet, when I confidered I had loft
no time, abated no pains, and had got every thing ufefut
out of her, I comforted ni)fJf in the btrft manner, and
entirely fubmitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how 1 mould defend and fecure
myfelf from favages and wild beads, if any fuch were in
the ifland. At one time I thought of digging a cave; at
another I was for eve&ing a tent; and, at length, 1 refolved
to do both : The manner or form of which will not, I hepe,
be unplesfing to defcribe.
When I confidered the ground where I was, that it was
moorifh, and had no frefh water near it, my resolutions
were to fearch for a foil healthy and well watered, where I
might not only be-Sheltered from the fun's fcorching heat,
but be more conveniently i\ uatcd, as well to be fecured
from wild mtn and beads of prey, as more eafily to difecver
any diflant fail, mould it ever fo happen.
B
And, indeed, it was not long before I had my defire. I
found, a little p'ain near a rifing hill, the front towards
which being as iteep as a houfe-fide, nothing could deicend
*>n me from the top. On the fide of this rock was a little
hollow place, refembling the entrance or door of a cave.
Juft before this place, on the circle of the green, I refolved
my tent Ihould Hand. This plain did not much exceed
a hundred yards bread, and about twice as long, like a dc-
lighiful -green before my door, with a pleafing though an
irregular ddcent every way to the low grounds by the fea-
Jlvie, lying on the N. W. fide of the hill ; fo that it was
iheltered from the exceflive heat of the fun. After this, I
drew a femi-circle, cpntaining ten yards in a femi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two rows of
ftrdng flakes, not fix inches from each other. Then with a
piece of cable which ,1 had cut on board, I-reguhrly laid
them in a circle between the piles up to their tops, which
"were more than five feet out cf the earth, and after drove
another row of piles looking within fide againft them, be-
tween two or thtec feet high, which made me,_eunclude it a
little impregnable ca(lie agaiivfl men and beafls. And for
my.better fecurity I would have no door, but entered in and
came out by the help of a ladder, which I alfo made.
jlere was tov fence and fortrefs, into which I carried all
my riches, ammunition and ltorcs. After which, working
on the rock, vdiat with dirt and flones I dug out, 1 not
only raifed my giound two feet, but-made.a little cellar to
my manfion-houfe; and this coil me many days labour and
pains. One day,'in particular, a ihower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning enfued, which put me in terror led
my powder fhould take fire, and not only hinder my ne-
ceJTary fubfiflence, my killing me food, but even blown up
me ?,nd my habitation. To prevent which, I fell to making
boxes and bags, in order to feparate it, having by me near
]50lb. weight. And thus being eftablifhed as king of the
ifUnd, every day I went out with my gun to fee what I
co^ld kill that was fit to eat. I fcon perceived numbers of
rgpats, but very ihy ; yet having watched them narrowly,
and feeing I could better (hoot off the rocks than when in
the low grounds, I happened to (hoot a me-goat fucklinga
young kid; which not thinking its dam flain, flood by her
unconcerned ; and when I took the dead creature up, the
young one followed mc even to the inclofure* I lifted the
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it alive;
but Ending it could not be brought to £at, I was forced to
'flay it alfo for my fubfiftence.
Thus entering into as flrange a (bene of life as ever any
man was in, I had moft melancholy apprehenfions concern-
ing my deplorable condition : and many times the tears
woukl plentifully run down my face, when Iconfidered
how I was debarred from all communication with human
kind. Yet while thefe deCpondrng cogka;ions would feem
to make me accufe Providence, other good thoughts would
interpofe and reprove me after this manner : Well, fuppo-
fing you are defolare, is it not better to befo than totally
.perifh: Why- were you iingled out to be faved, and the reft
d-eltroyed? Why fliould you complain, when not only your
life is prefcrved, but the fh'p driven even into your reach, hi
order to take what was necefTary cut of her for your -fub-
fiftence r But to proceed. It was, by the account I kept,
the 30th of September, when I firft hnded on ihi^ ifland.
About twelve days after, fearing left 1 fhculd lofe my
reckoning of time, nay, even forget the Sabbath days, for
want of pen, ink, and paper, I carved with a knife upon a
large poll, in great letters, and fet it up, in the ftaii*itude of
a crafs en the fea-fhore where I landed, J-came on Jhore^
Sept. 30, \659. Every day I cut a notch with my knife on
the fides of this fquare port, and that on the Sabbath was as
long aga*n as the rett; and every firft day of the month as
long again as that long onr. In this manner 1 kept my ca-
lendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning of time. But
had I made a more it rift fearch (as a Ac; wards I did) I
needed not have fet up this mark; for among the parcels
belonging to the gunner, carpenter, 2nd cap:ain's mate, I
found thofe very things I wanted; particularly penp, ink#
and paper : alfo I found two or three compares, fome ma-
thematical inftruments, dials, perfjre&ive gldi'fes.,- books of
navigation, thrre EngUfh Bibles, and federal other good
books, which I carefully put up.—Here I ear-not but call to
mind our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitant with me in my caftle. Though one might
think I had all the neccftaries that were defirable ye: Ilill
1 found f^veral things wanting^ My ink was daily wafting;
I wanted needles, pins, and thicad to merd or keep my
clothes tegether; and particularly a fpade, pickaxe, or
ihovel, to remove the earth. It \\as a vcar before I f.ni*he4
B<2
.my little bulwark ; and having fome intervals of relaxation,
after my daily wandering abroad for provifion, I drew up
this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind me
.of. the n;.ife*ies and bleffings of my life, under fo many
various circumflances.
EVIL. C.OOD.
I am cast vpon a desolate
island, having no hopes, no
prospect of a welcome de-
liverance. :
How Miserable am T sin-
gled out from the enjoyment 01
-company of mankind.
Like an her?nit (rather
-should 1 say a lonely an-
chorite) am I forced from
Jtumun conversation.
DJy clothes after some time
yci'l be worn out; and then J
thall have none to cover m-e,
When my ammunition is
pasted, then I shall rc?nain
without any defence against
,ieild men and beasts.
1 have no creature^ no soul
to speak to ; none to beg,
, assistance from. Some com-
fort would it be to resound >
my woe* where I am under-
stood, and beg assistance
xvhcie I might hope for relief
, And now eafing my mind a little by thefe reflections^
I began to render rrty hfe as cafy as poffible.
I mull here add, to the defcription I have given of my
habitationi that having rnifed a turf-wall againft the outfide
of it, I thatched it fo clofe, as might keep it from the incle-
mency of the weather ; I alfo improved it within, enlarged
rr.y.cave, and made a paflage and door in the rock, which
came cut beyond the pale of my fortification. I next pro-
ceeded to m'dke a cha'r and a table, and fo began to fiudy
fiich mechanical arts as feemed to me practicable. * When
But yet I am preserved
while my companions are pe-
rished in the mging ocean.
Yet set apart to be spared
from death. And he, who
lias so preserved me, can de-
liver me from this condition.
However, I have food to eat,
and even a happy prospect of
subsistence whi<st life en-
dures.
At present I enjoy what is
absolutely needful; and the
c imate is so hot, iimthadl
never so many, J should
hai dly wear them.
lYct if it does, I see no dan-
ger of any hurt to me, as in Af-
rica : And what if I had been
cast away upon that coast ;
Is there >not God to con-
verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee ? Already has
he afforded thee sustenance,
and put it in thy power to
provide for thyself till lie
sends thee,a dellve) ance.
I wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with my
hatchet, making it as thin with my sxe as poffible, and (hen
fmooth enough with an adze to anfwer my defigns : yet
thought I could make no more this way than one board out
of a tree, rn length of time I got boards enough to fhelter
all my Mores, every thing being regularly placed, and my
guns fecurely hanging againit the fide of the rock. This
made it a very plea'ant fight to me, as being the rcfult of
vail labour and diligence ; which leaving for a while, and
me to the enjoyment of it, I fhall give5 the reader an account
of my Journal from the day of my landing, till the fixings
and fettling of my habitation, as heretofore mown.
JOURNAL*
September 30th, 1659, I, unhappy Rbbinfon Crufce,
having fuffered (hipwreck, was driven 01 this defolafce-
lfland, which I named the Defolae Ifland of Defpair, my
companions being fwallowed up in the tempeftuous ocean.
The next day I fpent in consideration of my unhappy cir-
cumftances, having no profpect but of death, either to bz
fiarved with hunger, or devoured with beafts or mercilefs
favages.
Oct. 1. That morning with great comfort I beheld the '
foip drove alhore. Some hopes I had, that when the fbrm
was abated, I might be able to get fome food and necef-
faries out of her, which L conceived were not damaged, be-
caufe the fhip did (land upright. At this time I lamented
thelofs of my companions, and our misfortune in leaving the
vefTel. When I perceived the fhip,. as it were, lie dry, I
waded through the fands, then fwam aboard, the weather
being very rainy, and with fcarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employed ii
making voyages* every tide gating uh.it I couli out of the '
fhip. The weither very w^t and im::ernil.
Oft. 20. My *aft and all {he goods the;eon were over-
fet ; yet I recovered moil aga;n at Sow water.
0£t 25. It bUw hard, an.l rained night and day, wheli-
the fhip uent in pieces, fo Hut nothing was fee \ of her but
the wreck a flow wafT. T*i> day I fecured my g.ods from •
the inclemency of the wcutur.
B 3
Ocl. 26> I wandered to (ee where I could £nd a place
convenient for my abode. I fixed upon a rock in the even-
jug, marked out a half-moon, intending to ereft a, wall,
iortifred with pile.^, lined within witn pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. I. I erected my tenc under a rock, and took up
my lodgings very contentedly in a hammock that night.
Nov. 2. Tbisday I fenced my.felf in witn timber, cheils,
and'boards*
Nov. 3. I fhottwo wild fowls, refembling ducks, which
were good to*eat, and in the afternoon made me a table;
Nov. 4s, J b-gan to live regukirly. In the morning, I
allowed uiyfeif two or three hours to walk out wiih my gun ;
I then worked till near eleven o'clock, and afterwards re-
frelhed myfelf with what I had to eat. From twelve to
two I would lie down to fkep. Extremely fuhry weather,
in the evening go to work again.
Nov. 5. Went out with 'mv gun and dog, (hot a wild
cat with a. foft fkin, but her fleih was good for nothing.
The fkirvs of thofe 1*killed, I preferred. Ih my return, I
perceived- many wild birds, and was terrified by fomer fesfis*
which, made ofF to fea,
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I' worked trM the 12th, but
omitted the Hth, which, according to my calculation, t~ fup*
pof'ed- to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which, however, much
cooled the air;, with thunder and lightning, cauied iir me a
tarrib!e forprife. The weather el-earing* I" fecuied my
powder in feparate parcels,
Nov. 14-— 10*. I made little boxes for my powder, lodg-
ing them in feveral places. I alfo (hot a large fowl, which
proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obliged to
defiit for want of a pickaxe, (hovel, and wheelbarrow. Iron
crows I caufed to fupply the place of the £rlt; but with all
my art I could not make a wheelbarrow.
Nov. J 8. It was my fortune to find a tree, refembJmg
whit thcBrazillians call an iron-tree. I had like to have fooiled"
my axe with cutting ity being very hard and'exceedingly
heavy ; yet, with much labour and induftry, I made a fort
oFa fpade out of it.
Nov. 23. Thefe tools being made, I daily carried on my
bufifiefs; eighteen da)s I allowed for enlarging my cave,
that it might ferve me, not only for a wareJioufe^ bat kit*
chen, parlour, and.cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, un-
lefs tne weather was rainy: that I could not lied[ry. Sowe>t-/
would it be at certain; feafons,t thsat I was obliged to cover*
all within the pale with long poles; in the form of ratters,
leining againil the rock, and'loaded them with flags and
large leaves of trees, refembling a ihatoh.
Dec. 10. No foon,r did I thin'* my habitation finifhed^
but fujddealy. a great deal of the topbrt,ke in, fo that it vuas
a, mercy i was not buried in the ruins. This oceaftoned a
great deal of pains and trouble to me, before 1 could make
it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. 1 nailed up fome Ihelves, and drove nails and
ftaples in the wall and polls, to hang things oui of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing 1 got into its place, then, made
a fori of a drelfsr, and another tabic.
Dec. 24, 25. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec, 27. I chanced to light on fome goats, (hot one, and
wounded anoiher. 1 led it home in a tiring, bound up its
legr and Gured it in a little time; at length it became fo.
tame-^and familiar as to feed before the door, and follow me
where I'pleafed: This put me in miad to bring up tame
creatures, in order to fuppiy me wi.ih.food after my ammu-
nition was fpent,
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exceflively hot,,
with little air, obliged me, for the moll part, to keep within
doors.
Jan.!. Still fultry; however, obliged by neceffity, I went
out with my gun, and found a great ltore of goats in the
valleys; they were exceedingly my, nor could my. dog
hunt them down.
Jan. 3 to 14. My employment this time was to finiih tVe
wall before defcribed, and fearch the ifUnd. 1 discovered
a kind of pigeons, like our houfe pigeons, in a nett among
the rocks. 1 brought them home, nurfed them ti»l they could
fly, and then they left me. After this, I (hot fome, which
proved excellent food. Some time I fpent vainly in con-
triving to make a cafk; I may well fay it was vain, hecaufe
I could neither joint the ftaves, r.or fix the heads, fo as to
make it tight: So, leaving that, took fome goat's tallow I
had about me, and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myfelf with a lamp, which ferved me inltead of candles.
B 4
But now a very ftrarge event happened. For being in
tlie height of my fearch, what fhcuJd come into my hand*
but a ba^, "wh'ch ufed to hold corn (as I fiippofed) for the
fowls; fo immediately Fffolving to-put gunpowder in it, I
{hook all the hufks and dirt upon one fide of v e rock, little
expecting *what the confrquence *odid be. The rain had
fallen plentifully a few days before; and about a montk
afier, to my great amazement, fomething began to look out
very green and' flpurifhin^ ; and when I came to view it
more nicely every day as it grew, I found aboct ten or
twelve ears of green barley appeared in the very fame fhape
and make'as thai in Englard.
I can fcarce exprefs thu agitations of my mind at this
fight. Hitherto, I had looked upon the actions of this life
no othenvife than only as the events of blird charce and
fortune. But no-v the appearance of this barley, flourifhing
in a barren foil, < n 1 my i<nv ranee in not cenceivi^g how it
Ihou'd come there, made ine conclude, that miracles nvere mi
jet ceafed: nay I t vep ih u^ht that God h«d appointed it
to grow there wi.houl any fcrd, purely Lr my juften~nce
in this miferable and defJate ifland. -And indeed ftjch
great effeel this had upon me, that it often made me mek
into te«rs, through a grate/il fenfe of Gcd's mcciesj and
the grea.er fli'l was my thVnkfulnefs, when I perceived
about this Fttle field of barley fotne lice folks, slfo wendtr-
fuliy flour!filing.
While thus pleafed in mind, I conceded th*re muft be
more corn in ihe ifLnd ; ani therefore made a diligent
fearch narrowly amcrg the r'eks; but not being able to
find any, en a hidden ic came into mind, how I had fhaken
the bulks of corn cut of the bag, and then my admiration
ceafed, with my gratitude to the Divine Be'ng, as thhkivg
it ivaj hut natural% end not to be conceived a miracle; though
even the ma ner of its preservation might have made me
own it was a wonderful e\e. t of God's kir.d Providence.
It was about ihc latter er d of Jcne when the ears of
this corn rip.ne;*, which I laid up vey carefully, together
with '20 or 50 ihlks of r'c^, expecting ore day 1 fliould reap
the fruit of my hbo^r ; }<?t four years were expired be-
foie I could allow nv. feif to eat any barley bread, and much
longer tin.e before I had any rice. After this* with indefa-
U£-ab e pains and induiiry, for three or four months, at lafl
I finitr.ed my wail on the 1-kh of April, having no way to
gc irro ;t, but by a ladce. again:! the v*all.
April 17. I firs i Died my ladder, and acended it; after-
wards polled it up , then let it down on V e ether fide, and
defcended into my new habitation, wh»*re I had fpace
enough, and fo fo'tifisd that nothing could attack n,e wLh-
cut fcal'ng ihe walls.
Bat wr«at does all human pains and induilry avail, if the
blefling of God does not crown our labours ? Or who can
(land before the Almighty, when he ftretcheth forth his 2rm?
For one time as I was at the entrance of my cave, there hap-
penrd ftieh a drQBdh] earthquake, that-not only the roof of
the cav-e ca-Tie timbimg about my ears, but the polls feemrd -
to era, k terrible at the fame time. This put rae in great
amazement; and running to the ladder, and getting over the
wail, I then plainly knew it was an earthquake ; the nlace I-
flcod on. fuitainei three terrible (hocks in lefs than three
minutes.- But judgeof my terror when 1 faw the top of a
great rockroll into the fea j I then expe&ed the illand would
be fwal'owed up-every moment: And what made the fecne
ft ill mere dreadful, was to (ze the fca thrown into the mc(i
violent agitations and diforders by this tremendous accident.
For any p*rtl flood Ike a criminal at the place of execu-
tion, ready to expire. At the moving of the earth, I was,
as it were> fea-lkk ; and very much afraid left the rock,
under which- was my defence and habitation, ihould over-
whelm it and myi'eif in a (ailing tomb.
When the third dreadful (hock had fpentitfelf, myfpirit>
began to.revive; yet ttill I would not venture to aicend
the ladder, but continued fitting, not knowing what I (hould
do. So little, grace had I then, as only to fay, Lord have-
mercy upon me I and no fooner was the earthquake over,
but that pathetic prayer left me.
It was sot long.after,, when a horrible temped arofe, at
the fame time attended with a hurricane of wind. The fea
feemed mountains high, and the waves rolled fo impetuoufly,
that nothing could be perceived but froth and foam. Three
hours did this ftorm continue, and in fo violent a manner, as
to tear the- very trees up by the roots, which was fucceeded
by abundance of rain. When the tempetl was ever, I went
to my tent; but the rain coming on in a furious manner, I
was obliged take (belter in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification to let the water out.
It continued raining ail that nighr, and fome time the next
day, Thefo accidents made me rcfolve, as foon cs the
B-5
weather cleared up, to build me a little hut in fome open
place, walled round to defend me from wild creatures and
favages; not doubtmg but at the next earthquake, the
mountain would fall upon my habitation and me, and fwal-
low up all in its bowels.
April 16—20. Thefe days I fpent in contriving how
and in what manner I fhouid fix my place of abode. Alii
this while I was under the moll: dreadful apprehenficns.—
When I locked round my habitation, every thing I found in*
its proper place. I" had fevera-L re folu lions whether I mould5
-'•move or not; but at length refolved to flay where I was till*
I found oat a covenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put my refutation in prac-
tice, I was (topt for want of tools and inilruments to* work
with. M-ofr. of my axes and hatchets were ufelefs, ccca-
iioned by cutting the hard timber that grew on the ifland.
Jt took nre up a full week to make my grind Hone of ufe to
me; and at laft I found'out* a way to turn it about with my
foot, by help of a -Ahe.il and a firing,
Apr)) '28**29. Thefe days were- fpent *n grinding my tool*;
April 30. My bread failing ihort, 1 allowed myfelf but
©nebifcuit a day.
May V. As I walked alon^ thefea-fhore, I found a barrel
of gunpowder, and feveral pieces of the wreck, the fea had
flurg up. Having fecured thofe, I made to the (hip, whofe
tfern was tore cfF, and' wafhed a great di fiance a more ; but
the reft lay m the fands. This- I fuppofed was occafioned
by the earthquake. I now refolved to keep my old place
of abode ; and alfo to go to the fhip that day, but then
fbvmd h impoilible.
May 3. This day I went on board, and-with my faw
fewed1 eff one of the beams, which kept the-quarter-deck.
l:lhen cleared the fand till flood.
May 4^ 1 caught fome fifli, but they were not wholefome.
The fame day I alfo catched a young dolphin.
May 5!. This day 1 alfo repaired to the- wreck, and fawed
another piece of timber, andwhen the flood came, f made
a flbat of three great planks, which were-driven am ore by
the tide.
May 6, 7-, 8, 9. Thefe days I brought off the iron'bolts,
opened the deck with the iron crow, and carried two planks
i'o land, having made1 a way into the very middle of ihe
livreek.
May 10,. i I, 12, 13, 14. All this time I fpentin bringing
off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15, Took with me two haichets on purpofe to cut
off fome lead from the roil, but all in vain; for it lay too
low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day ; for em-
ploying myfelf to look for pigeons, I outflayed my time.
May 17. I perceived feveral pieces of the wreck driven
ajhore, which I found belonged to the head of the Ihip.
May 24-. To this day I worked on the wreck, and with
great difficulty loofened fome things fomuch with the crowt
thit at the firll flowing tide, feveral cafks floated out, and
many of the feamen's cheils -y yet that day nothing came to
land but pieces of timber, and a bogfhead which had fome
Brazil pork in it. 1 continued working to the 15th of Jane;
(except neceffary time for food or reit;) and, had 1 known
how to have built a boat, I had timber and planks enough :
I had alfo mar 100 weight of fheet lead.
Jur.e 16. As 1 was wardering towards the fea-fide, I
found a large tortoife or turtle, being th-j firii I had feen en
the ifland ; thcugh, as I afterwards found, they were many
on. the other fide of it.
June IT. This day I fpent in cooking it, found in her
threefcore eggs, and her flefb the moft favoury and pleafant
1 ever tafted in my life.
Jue 18. I ilaid within this day, there being a continual
rap. : and it was fomewhat more chilly aud cold than ufual.
June 19. Exceedingly bad, being taken with a trembling,
ar,d mivcring.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with parrt
and feverilh.
June 2). Sick unto death, and terrified with the difmai.
apprehenfions of my condition. Prated to God more fre-
quently, but very ccnfufedly.
June 22. Something better, but ftill uneafy in my mind.
June 23. Again relapfed much as before.
June 24*. Mended a fecond time.
June 25. A violent ague for feveu hours, cold and hot
fits fucceeded with faint fweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak, yet I fcrambled our, fhot
a fhe-goat, brought it home and boiled fome of it j I would
willingly ha.ve (tewed it, and made fome broth, but had no
pot;
B 6
June 27. All this day I Was afflicted with an ague ;
thir/ly, ye; could not help mvfelf to water: Prayed to God
fn thefe words: "Lord, in pity look upon me: Lord have
"rreicy upon rre: have mercy upon me!" After this I
fell afleep, which I frund had much refreshed me, when I
awaked. I fell fall afleep a fecond time, and ftll into this
ftranpe and terrible (bit of dream.
Methoutht I was fitting on the fame fpot of ground at the
omfide of the wall where* I fat when the ftorm blew after
the earthquake; a'rd that J faw a man descending from a
great black c'oud, and alight upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flaih cf fire that a Pttle before furrounded
him; his countenance inconceivably terrible; the esrth, as
it ivere, trembled when he ftept upon the ground, and flames
of fire feemed to fill ail the a;r. No fooner, I thought, he
Jar.ded upon «he earth, but with a Ion? fpear, or other wea-
pon, he road>-' towards me ; but tuft afcending a rifing^
ground, h's voice added to my amazement, when I thought
I heard him pronounce thefe dreadful word?, "Unhappy,
** wretch !" feeing a'l thefe things have x)'t brought thee to
u repentance, thou fhalt immediately die ,f In pronouncing
this dreadful Sentence, I thought he meant to kill me with
the fpear that was, in his hand. :
Any bedy may think it impoffible for me to exprefs the
horross of my mind at this vifion : and even when I awaked, •
this vtry dream rmde a deep impreffion upon my mind.—
The little divine knowledge I had, I received from my fa-
ther's inftru&i ns, and tl^at was worn out by an uninter-
rupted feries of fea-faring impiety for eight years fpace. Ex-
cept what ficknefs forced from me, I do not remember J had
one thiught of lifving up my heart towards Gcd, bur raher *
kd a certain Itupidity of foul, not having the leaft (enfe or
fezr of the.pmnipctent Being 'when in diftrefs, nor of gra-
titude to him for h's deliverances. Nay, when I was on the-'
defperate- expedition on the defert African fho/e, I cannot
jememb'.-r I had one thought of what would become of me,
or to beg his ccnfolation and affliUrce in my fufferings and
diffrefs. When the Portugal captain took me up; and ho-
nourably uf d me, ray, farther, when I was even delivered *
from drowning, by efcaning to this ifland, I never looked
npon it as a judgrrcnt, but only faid J was an unfortunate •
dbg, and that's all. Indeed-, fome-fecret tranfperts of foul I
ludj which was not through grace, but only u common flight- .
of joy, that I was yet alive, when my comp?.aions were all
drowned, and no other joy could I conceive. 1>jc what is-
common wich the Tailors over a bowl of punch, after the/
have efcaped the greateft dangers.
The likelihood cf wanting for neither food nor conveni-
ences, might have called upon me for a thankful acknow-
ledgment to Providence. Indeed the growth of my corn
touched me with fome fenfe; but that foon wore eff again.
The terrible earthquake pointed to me, as it were, the rin-
ger of God, hu-t my dreadful amazement continued no longer
than its duration. But now when my fpirits began to /ink
Under the burden of a (trong diltemper, and 1 cou-.d leifurely
view the roiferies of dea.fi prefent themfelves before my
eye's, then my awakened confeience began to reproach qij
with my pafir life, in which, I fo wickedly provoked the-
juftice of God to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as thefe opprefTed me even in the violence
ofdiilemper. Some prayers I uttered, vvh'ch only proceeded*
from the fear of death. But when I conlidered my father's
advice ar.d prophecy, I could not forbear weeping : for he-
tald me, tC Tr.at if I did peril ft in my folly, I fhould not only
*' be deprived of God's bleffing, but have time enough to
u reflect upon my defpifing his inftru&ions, and this in a
«4 wretched time, when none could help me." And now
concluding it to be fulfilled, having no foul in the ifland to
adrninifter any comfort to me, I prayed earnettiy to the-
Lord, that he would help me in this my great calamity.—
And this, I think, was the firft time I prayed in fin.cerity for/
many years. But now I mull return to my journal.
June 28. Something refremed with fleep, and the fit
quite oft", I got up. My dream ftill occafioned in me a great
confternatiori; and, fearing that the ague might return the
fircceeding day, I concluded it time to get fomething to com-
fort me, 1 filled a cafe-bottle with v^ater, and fet it within
reach of my bed ; and, to make it more nourishing and iefs
chilly, I put fome rum in it. The next thing I did was ta
broil me a piece of goat's flefh, of which 1 ate but little ; L
was very weak; however, walked about, dreading the return
of my diflemper; and at night £ fupped on three of the:
lur.lc's eggs, which I roafted and ate, begging God's blef-
fing therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of doors-
wk4i my gun ; but v>as fo weak, that I fat down, and look-
ed at the fea, which was fmocth and calm. While I con-
tinued here,s thefe thoughts came into my mind :
, In what manner is the production of the earth and fea, of
which I have feen fo much? From whence came myfelf,
and all other creatures living, and of what are they made ?
Our beings were afluredly created by fome almighty in-
vifible Power, who framed the earth, the fea„ the air, and
all therein. But what, is that Power. ?
Certainly it muft follow that God has created it all. Vet,
faid I, if God has. made all this, he muft be the Ruler of
them all, and what is relating thereto ; for certainly the
Power that makes, muft indifputably have a power to guide
and direct them. And if this be fo, (a* certainly it muft,)
nothing can happen without his knowledge and appoint-
ment. Then, furely, if nothing happens without God's ap-
pointmcnt, certainly God has appointed thefe my fuiFerings
to befail me. And here I fixed my firm belief that it was
his will that it fhould be fo ; and then proceeded to inquire,
why fhouJd God deal jWith me in this manner ? Or what
have I done thus todeierve his indignation.
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me as a
blafpfoemer -r crying with a leud and piercing voice, <cUn-
*' worthy wretch ! how dare' you afk what you have done ?
Cf Look on your pail lire, and fee what you have left undone!
"• Afk thyfelf, why thou wert rot leng ago in the mercilefs.
•* hands of death? Why not drowned in Yarmouth roads,
".or killed in. the fight,, when the fhip w^s raken by the
" Salee man of war? Why not entombed in thc-boweJs of
" wild beafts on the Afjican coaft, or drowned here when
'* all thy companions, fullered fhip wreck in the ocean ?"
Struck dumb with thffe reflections, I role up in a pen-
five- manner, being, fa thoughtful that I could not goto
fleep ; and, fearing the dreaaful return of my diitemper, it
caufed ire to remember,, that the Brazilians ufe tobacco fcr
ajmoft ail- diffca/e-s. I- ibui went to my, chett in order to
find fome, where Heaven,, no doubt,,-directed:me to find a
cure for both foul and-body,; for there If found one of tne
Bjbles^whica, liU-this time> I: had neither, leiiure nor incli-
nation to-lqok intOi I took both,the toaacco and that out of
the-cheft,, and laid them on.the table. Several experiments
did 1 try with the tobacco : Firft, I took a piece, of leaf, and
chewed' i,c; but it being very,, green and ftrong,, almoft
Jlupified, me. Next 1 ileeped' it- in fome rum a»* hour or
two* refofving when I went? to bed to take a dofe of ic-£
and;, in. the third place, I burnt (ome over a pan of fire,
holding my nofe over it as long as I could endure it with-
out fuffocation.
In the intervals of this operation^ though my bead was
giddy and difturbed by the tobacco, I took up, the Bible to
read. No fooner did I open it, but there appeared to me
thefe words,- '* Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
** deliver thee, and thou ihalt. glorify me. ^ ,
At firft, this fentence made a very deep impreflion on
my heart, but it fbon wore off again, when I coniidered the
word deliver was foreign to me. And as the children of
Jfrael faid,- when they were promifed flefh to eat, "Can
God fpread a table in the wi'dernefs ?" In like manner I
began to fay, " Can God himfelf deliwer me from this defo-
late ifland?,, However, the words would itill return to my
mind, and afterwards made a greater impreflion up,n me.
As it was now very late, and the tcbacco had dozed my
head, I was inclined to fleep; but before I would lie down
I fell on my knees, and implored the promife that God had
made me in the Holy Scripture, that *' if I called upon him
in the day of trouble, he would deliver me/J With much
di$rculty, I afterwards drsnk the rum* wherein I had ileeped^
ths-tobaccG, which flying into my head, threw me intofuch
a proruund'ileepj that it was. three o'clock the next day before
I awaked; or rather I-believe, I flept two days* having cer-
tainly loll a day in my account, and I could; never tell any
other way. When* I got up, my fpirits were lively and
cheerful; my ftomach much better, being very hungry ;
andj, in* fhort, no*fit returned the<next day, which was the
££&h, but I found-myfelfmuoh altered for the better*
The 30th I went abroad with my gun, but not far, and
killed* a- fea-fbwl* or- two, refe-nibling a brand- goofa, which,
however, I cared'not td>eatwhenl brought ihern^ home,
but dined on twomoreof the turtle's eggs. In the evening
I renewed my' medicine, excepting: cnat I did not take fo>
large a quantity, neither did I* chew the leaf, or hold my
headJ over the frnoke: bat the next> day-, which' was-: ihe-1 !fe
of July* having a little return of the cold fit^ 1 again took
my- medicine as J> did the'firft t'me.
July 3* The fit quite left me, but very* we*k. Inrhis
condition, Ii often-thought of: thefe words, w< L will: deliver-
tbeoj" and'whiles at feme uaws, I would" think o£ the im-
f
poffibility of if, other thoughts would reprehend'^Sflb^ .dis-
regarding the deliverances I had received evenfrom the
moil forlorn and diilreflfed condition. I afked myfelf, what
regard have I had to God for his abundant mercies? Have
I done my part ? (i He has delivered me, but I have not
glorified him:''—as if I had fa'.d, I had not owned and
been thankful for thefe as deliverance?, and how could L
expect greater ? So much did this fenfibly touch ray hearrr
thtft I gave Goi thanks for my recovery from ficknefs in*
tie moii humble probation.
Jaly 4-. This morning 1 began fcrioufly to ponder on what*
i>> written in the New TciTament, refolving to read a chap-
Ler every mcrning and night as long as my thoughts woutd
engage me. As i'oon as I fet about this work.ferioufly, T
found my heart deeply angeled with the impiety of my paft
life; thefe words that 1 thought were fpoken to me in m)A
dream, revived, <4 All ihete things have not brought thee to
" repentance.'* After this, L begged of God tj afliit a e_
with his Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day, in-
perufing the Scriptures, I came to thefe words, " Him hath
** Gtdexaked to beaPrirceand a Saviour, to give repentances
"and to give remiiFion :M immediately I laid down the
book, and with uplifted,hands to Heaven, loudly cried, uO
bleu'ed Jefusj thou fon of David, Jefus thou exalted Prince
and Saviour, give me repentance V And now indeed I prayed
with a true lenfe cf my condition, and a more'eertain hope,
founded on the wcrd of God, Now 1 had a different (ecfe
of thefe words, " Call on me and 1 will deliver thee," that
is, from the dreadful lead of guilt which cpprefled my fiufol
foul, and rot frcm a folitary life, which might rather be
called a blefEng, feeing I wanted neither food nor rai*
inent, when compared with iiv!ng among the human race,
furrounded with fo much opprei!k>n, mifery, and affliction :
Jn a word, I came to this conclufton, that a deHverance
nom fin was a much greater bleffing than a deliverar.ee
from affliction. But again I proceed to my journal.
To the 34th of July, I waiked about with my gun, li'tie
and little at a time, having been reduced to the greaieit
extjemity of weaknefs. The applications and experiments
I ufed, were perfectly new : neither could 1 recommend
them to eny one's praclce. For, though it carried off tbe
fit, it very much weakened me, and 1 had frequent convul-
£ons in my nerves and limbs for fume time. From this, ,1
learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, efpec'ally when
it was attended with fiorms and hurricanes of wind, was
nioft pernicious to health. I had now been about ten
months in the iflar.d ; and, as I never had (een any of the
human kind, I therefore acccunted myfelf as foie monarch ;
and as I grew better, having fecured my habitation to my
mind, I refolded to make a tour round my kingdom, in or-
der to make new difcoverles.
The 15th. of July, 1 began my journey ; I flrft went to
thee e^k, where I had brought my rafts on more ; and, tra-
velling farther, found that the tide went no higher than two
miles up, where there was a little brook of running water,
on ihe banks of which were many pleafant favannabs or
meadows, plain, fmooth, and cohered svith grafs. On the
riiing parts, where I fappofed the water did not reach, I
perceive J a great deal of tobacco growing to a very ilrong
tfalk. Several other plants I likevvife found, the virtues of
which I did not underiiand. I feaFched a long time for the
Caflavi root, which I knew the Indians in chat climate
made their bread of, but all in viin. There were feverai
plants of aloes, though at that time Y knew not what they
were ; likewife I faw feverai fugar canes, but imperfect for
want of cultivation. With thefe few difcoveries, I caiie
back that night, and fbpt contentedly in my little cafde.
The next day, being the leSth, going the fame way, but
farther than the day before, I found che country more adorned
with woods and trees. Here I perceived different fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and
clufiers of grapes, ripe and very rich, fpread over the trees.
You may imagine [ was glad of the difcovery, yet ate very
fparingly, leli I iliiuld tnro»v myfelf into a flux or fever.
The graphs I found of excellent ufe; for when I hal dried
them in the fun, which preferved them as dried raifins are
kept, they p oved very wholefome and nouriOiinj, and
ferved me in thefe feafor.s when no grapes were to be had.
T.^e night drawing on apace, I afcended up a tree, and
fb-pt very comfortably, though it was the firft time I had
Iain out of my habrtation. And when the morning came, I
proceeded with great pleafure on my way, travelling about
four miles, as I imagined, by the length of the valley, di-
recting my courfe northward, there being a ridge of hills on
the fouth and norm fide of me. At the end of this valley*
I came to an opening, where the country feemed to defcend
to the weft; there I found a little, fpring of- frefh water,
proceeding oat of the ftde of the hill, with itSj-cryftal ftreacns
running direftly eaft. And, indeed, here my fenfes were
charmedwith tbe moltbsauiiful landfeape Nature could a k
ford; for the country appeared floiinifhing,. greet!,, and de-
lightful;, that to me it formed like a-planted^ garden, Lthen
defcended on the fide of that delicious vale, when L found
abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citfot»>tre?<s, bur
very wild and barren (at that timr. As.for the limes, they
were delightful and wholefofEe,.theJKkeof whieh.l-afier.vards
ufed to mix in water, which made it very cooling and re-
freshing. And now 1 was refolved to carry home, and lay
uo aftore of grapes, limes, and lemons,* againft the approach-
ing wet-.feafon. So, laying them up in- feveral parcels, and
then taking a few*o£ each with roe, I returned to my little
caftle, after having fpem three days in this journey. Before
I got home, the grapes were fo bruifed that they were
utterly fpoiled-; the limes, indeed,, were good ; but of thofe
I could bring only a few,
July 19- Having prepared two bags, I re-turned thither
again,, but, to my: greac furprife, found all'the grapes Spread
about, trod to peces, and abundance eaten, which made: me
conclude there vvere-wild beafts thorcaboubs.- To prevent'
this happening again, I. gathered aj large quantity of the
g/apes, and hung them upon the out-branches of the tree,
both to keep them unhurt, and that they might-, cure-and dry
in the; fun<: and having well loaded myfelf with limes and
lemons, I returned: oace more to my old. place of resi-
dence.
And now contemplating; on the fruitfulnefs of this valley,,
and pieafartnefe of its duration, its fecuri.y from florins*
and, the detighlfulnefs of the adjacent woods,..l concluded
I: was, fettled- in the word part of the country* and there-
fore was. thin king, to remove my habitation.
But when I canlidered again, that, though; it was pleafant,
it was off from the fea-fide, where there was a poflibility,
fome time or other, a fhip might either be driven or fail by ;
and, that toinclofe m)feif among hHte and woods, mull cer-
tainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance; I refolved
to let my caiile remain where Providence had firffc alligned
ia Yet fo ravifhed was I with this place, that I made me
a, little kind of bower, furrounding it with a* double hedge,
as higb as 1 could reach, well flaked and filled with bull-
rallies: and having fperu a great part of tbe month of July
I think- it was the fir&of Auguft before I began to enjoy-
my labour-
Aug. 2. Perceiving my grapes to be dry,. I toak them fronv
the trees, and they proved excellent good railing of the fiis:
the mod of which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
1 did fo-; by which i faved the belt, part of my winter food/
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain ; and though I had
made me a tent like the ether, y*t having no (helter of a hill
to keep me from' ftorms,nor a cave behind me to retreat uv
I was obliged, to return, to my old cattle. The rain con-
tinued more or lefs every day, till the middle of October ;.
artel (bmetimes-fo violent, that I -could not ilir out of my
cave for feveral days. This feafonT found my family to
increafe ; for one of my cat& that ran away from me, and
w-hich I thought had been dead, reiumed about Auguft,,
whh three kittens at her hee\st likeherfelf, which I thought
flrange, becaufe; both my cats were females, and the wild
cats of the ifland i'ezmexb to be of a different kind from our
European cats; but from thefe cats proceeded fuch num-
bers, that 1' was forced to krJi- and defiroy them as I would
do wild bealb and- verrrcine.
To the 2$t& of this* mscmlh, I couid not ftir oat, it raining
incefTantly ; when, beginning to want food, I was compelled
to venture twice; chef (iplt of which I (hota goat, and af-
terwards found a» very large tortoife; The manner of my
regulating my food was «hus: a bundi of raiims ferved me
for my breakfaft, a piece efi goat's fleih* ox turtle,, boiled,.for
my dinner, and rwo or three tur*leV.eggts for my fupper.
While the rain Med, 1 daiiy worked two or three hours at
enlarging my c&v-e, ard by degrees worked k on toward*
cme fide, till I eam# tt> the ou*fide of the hill, and made a
ctoo* ot wayou<tr whiicb came beyend my fence or wall, and
fo I came in and out this way. Bat after I had.dxme this, I
was troubled to fee myfeif thus expofed ; though I could
not perceive any thing to fear, a goat being tne biggeil
creature I had feen upon this ifland.
Sept. 30. Calling up my notches on my pod, which
amounted to 365, 1 concluded this to be the anniverfary o£
my landing ; and,, therefore, humbly proftrating myfeif on,
the ground, confeffing my iins, acknowledgi ig God*&
righteous judgments upon merand praying to Jefus Chrift
to have mercy upon me, I tailed for twelve hours till the
going down of the fun ; and then eating a bifcuit and a
bunch of grapes, laid me on the bed, and with great comfort
took my nights repofe. Till (his time, I never had diftin-
guifhed the Sabbath-day : but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary for the days of reit, and divided the week as
well as I could, though I found I had loll a day or two in
my account. My ink failing foon after, I omitted in my
daily memorandum things of an indifferent nature, and con-
tented myfelf to write down only the moil remarkable events
of my life. The rainy and dry feafons appeared now regular
to me, and experience taught me how to provide for them ;
yet, in one thing I am goi^g to relate, my experience very
much failed me. You may call to mind what I have men-
tioned of fome barley and rice which I had faved, about
thirty Italics of the former, and twenty of the latter ; and, at
that time, the fun being in its fouthern pofuion, going from
me, together with the rains, made me conclude it a very
prrper feafon to fow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece cf
ground with my woodeh fpade, and dividing it into two
parts, fowed about two-thirds of my feed, preferving by
me about a handful of each. And happy it was I did fo; for
no rains falling, it was choaked up, and never appeared,
above the earth till the wet feafon came again; and then
part of it grew as if it had been newly fjwn*
I was refolved ftill to make another trial; and feeking
for a mcifler p'ece of ground near my bower, I there fowed
the reft of my feed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox; which having the rainy months of March and
April to water it, yieldeda noble crop, and fprang up very
pleafantly. J had ftill faved part of the feed, not daring *o
venture all; and by the time i found out the proper feafcas
to fow it in, and that I might expect every year two feed-
times and t*o harvefts, my Hock amounted to above half a.
peck of each fort of grain.
No fconer were the rains over, but the flakes which I had
cut from the Liees, (hot out like willows, the firft year after
lopping their heads. I was ignorant of the tree I cut them
from: but they grew lb regularly beautiful, that they made
a moil lively appearance, and fo flourifhed in three years
time, that 1 refolved to cut more of them; and thefe foon
growing, made a glorious fence, as afterwards 1 mall cbferve.
And now 1 peiceived that the fe»fons of the year might
generally be divided not into fummer and winter, as in,
Europe., but into wet and dry feafons, as in this manner;
\>
Half< Mhrcb, V Rainy, ftm coming near the EquinoK.
I April, )
C April,
\ May,
Half-^ June, VDry, fun getting North oflhe Line,
Auguftj
fAuguft,
Half <J September, > Wzt, the fm being then come back*
£ October, J
/'October, "}
\ November, /
Half^ December, >Dry, fun rnnning South of the Line*
JJanuary, I
(^February, J
The wet feafcn would continue longer or fhorter, as the
-winds happened lo blo.v. But having found the ill confe-
-quences of being abroad in the rain, I took care beforehand
lo fumifh .myfelf with provisions ; and, during the wet
,months, fat within doors as much as pofiible. At this time I
contrived to make many thingsthat I wanted, though it cofl
me much labour and pain?, before I could accomplish them.
The fall 1 tried was to make a bafket; but all the twigs'I
iCould get, proved fo brittle, that I could not then perform it.
It now proved of great advantage to me, that, when a boy,I
took a great delight at (landing at a bafket-maker's in the
fame town where my father lived, to view them at work.;
and hke other boys, curious to fee the manner of their
working thefe things, and very officious to affift, I perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing but the tools.
And, it coming into my mind, that the twigs of that tree of
which I made my flakes, might be as tough as a fallow*
willow or oiiers, growing in Ergland, I refolved to make
an experiment, and went the next day to my country-feat,
and fcund fome fit for my turn ; and after cuLting down a
quantity with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and,
when fie to work with, carried them to my cave, where I
employed myfelf in making feveral forts of bafkjts, info-
much that I could put in whalfcevtr I pleafed. It is true,
they were not cleverly made, yet they feryed my turn upon
all occafions.
Bat flill I wanted two necelTary things. I had no calk
to hold my liquor, except two runlets aimed full of rem, a
few bottles of an ordinary fize, and fome fquare cafe bottles ;
neither had I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle
unfit to make broth, or flew a bit of meat: I wanted like-
wife at the beginning of this dry feafon, a tobacco pipe ;
but for this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myfelf employed in planting my fecond row of
flakes. Eut remembering that when J travelled up to the
brook, I had a mind to fee the whole ifland, I now returned
my intention ; and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two bifcuit
cakes, a great bunch of ra^'fins, with a larger quantity of
powder and fhot than ufual, I began my journey. Having
pafied the vale where my bower flood > I came within view
of the fea, lying to the well; when it being a clear day, I
fairly defcried land, extending from the.W. to the S. W,
about ten or fifteen leagues, as I concluded % but could not
fay whether it was an, ifland or a continent. Neither
could I tell what this place might be ; only thought it was
part of Amedca, and where 1 might have been in a mifer-
able condition, had I landed. Again, I confidered, that if
this was the Spanifh coail, certainly, one time or other, I
ihould fee fome fhip pafs by; ?.nd if it was nor, then it
mn'ft be the favage co#fl, between the Spanifh country and
Brazil, which abounds with cannibals or man-eaters.
.As I proceeded fonvard, I fourd this fide of the ifland
much more pleafant than mire ; the fields fragrant, adorred
with fweet flowers and verdant grafs, together with feveral
very fine woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made me long for one to be my companion; but it was with
great difficulty I could knock one down with my flick; arid
I kept him at home fome years before I could get him to
call me by my name.
In the low ground?, I found various forts of hares and
foxes, as 1 took them to be,"but much different f/om thofc
in Englard. Several of thefe I killed, but never ate them;
neither, indeed, had J any cccafion ; for abf urd'ing with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy Leadenhall
market to fyrnifh ree a berer table. In this journey, I did
wot travel above two miles a'd^y, bee*life I toek feveral
turns and windings, to fee what discoveries I cculd make,
returning weary tnctigh to the pkee Where I defigned to
reft all night, which was either in a tree, cr in a place
which I furrounded with flakes, that vio wild creature might
fuddeniy furprife me. When I came to the fea-fhore, I was
amazed to fee the fplendour of it. Its flrand was covered
with fhells of the molt beautiful fifh, and conftantly abound-
ing with innumerable turtles, and fowls of many kinds,
which I was ignorant of, except thofe called penguins. I
might have (hot as many as I pJeafed, but was fparing of
my ammunition, rather chooiing to kill a fhe-goat, which!
did with much difficulty, on account of the fiatnefs of the
country.
Now though this journey produced sne the mofl pleafing
fatisfaction, yet my habitation was fo much to my liking,
that I did not repine at my beirg feated on the worft part
of the ifland. I continued my journey, travelling about
twelve miles further towards the eait, where I fet a great
pile on the" more for a mark, concluding that my next jour-
ney mould bring me to the other fide of the ifland, eaft from
my caflte, and fo round till I came to my poll: again. As I
had a conftant view of the country, I thought I could not
mil's my way ; but fcarcely had I travelled three miles,
when I defcended into a very large valley, fo furrounded
with hills, covered with wood, that 1 having no guide but
the fun, nor even that, urdefs 1 knew well his pofition at
that time of the day; and, to add Lo my misfortune, the wea-
ther proving very ha,zy, I was obliged to return to my poft
by the fea-fide,and fo backwards the fame way I came.-r—
In this jpurney -my dog furprifed a kid, and would have'
killed it, had I not prevented him. As I had often been
thinking of getting a kid or two, ami fo raifing a breed of
tame goats to fupply me after my ammunition was fpent, I
took this opportunity of beginning : and having made a
collar for this little creature, with a firing made of rope-
yarn, I brought it to my bower, and there inclofed and left
him; and having fpent a month in this journey, at.length
1 returned to my own habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my iatis/action, when I returned to
nvy little callie, and repofed myftlf in my- hammock. After
my journey, I relied myfelf a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty Poll. I now began to
confider my poor kid I had left in the bower, and I imme-
diately went to fetch it home. When I came there, I found
the young creature almoft Karved ; J gave it fome food, and
tied it as before : but there was no occasion, for it followed
me like a dog; and, as I confbntly fed it, it becsme fo
Jcmng, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one of my do-
roeftics, and would never leave me.
The rainy feafon of the autumnal equinox being now
come, 1 kept the 30th of September in the moll folemn
mann-er, as ufual: it being the third year of my abcdc in
the illand. I frent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving him thanks for making this iblitary life as
agreeable and lefs finful, than that of human fcciety ; and
for the communications of his grace to my foul, in fupport-
ing, comforting, and erccuraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal prefence in the woild
to come.
Jndeed, I often did confider how much more happy I was
Id this flate of life, than in that accurfed manner ol living I
formerly ufed; and fometimes when huntings or viewing
the country, the angu'fh of my foul would break out upon
rr.e, and my very heart would fink within me, to think of the
wcods, the mountains, the deferts I was in; and hew I was
a prifoner locked up wiihin the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wildemefs, without hopes, and
without redemption. In this condition I would often wring;
my hands and weep like a child : And even fometimes, in
the middle of my work, this fit would take me; and then I
would fit down and figh, lookirg on the ground for an hour
or two together, till fuch time as my grief got vent in a
flood of tears.
One morning as I was fadly employed in this manner, I
opened my Bible, v hen I immediately fixed my eyes upon
thefe words, "I will never leave ther, nor forfake thee !*'
Surely, thought I, thefe words are directed to me, or elfe why
fhould they appear juil at a moroer t when I am bemoaning
my forlorn condition; and if God dees net forfake, what
matters it, fincehe can make me more happy in this flate of
life, than if I enjoyed the greater! fplerdour in the world ?
But while I was going to return God thanks for my prefent
Hate, fomething feemed to ihock my mind, as if it had thus
faid : Unworthy wretch, can you pretend to be tharkful
for a condition frcm which y< u would pray to be delivered 1
Here I ilopt;—and though I could not fay, I thanked ihe
Divine Majeily for being there, yet I gave God thanks for
placing to my view my former courfe of life, and granting
me a true knowledge of repentance. An4 whenever 1 opened
or fhut the Biblf, I blefled kird Providence, that direcled
*my good Friend in England tofer.d it among my goods with-
out any order, and for affiftlng me to fave it fro* the power
gf the raging ocean.
And now beginning mv third year, my feveral daily em-
ployments were thefe : Fuji, My duty to Heaven, and di-
ligently reading the Holy Scriptures ; which I Hd twice or
thrice every day : Secondly, Seeking proyifions with my gun,
which commonly took me ua, when it did not rain, three
hours every morning-: Thirdly, The ordering, curing, pre-
ferving and cooking what I killed, or C2tched for my fup-
ply, which took me up great part of the day ; for, in the
middle of the day, the fun being in its height, it was fo hot,
ihat I cculd notflir out; fo that I had only but four hours
in the evening to work in : and then the want of tools, of
affiftance, and fkill, wafted a great deal of time to little
purpofe. I was no lefs than two and forty days making a
board fit for a long fhelf; which two fawyers, with their
tools and faw-p;.t, would lm*e cut eff the fame Tree in
half a day. It was of a large tree,- as my board was. to be
broad. I was three days in cutting it down, and two more
in topping off the boughs, and reducing it ro a piece of tim-
ber. This I hacked and hewed off each fide, till it became
light to'move; and then 1 turned it, made one fide of it
fmooth and flat as a board from end to end, then turned it
downwards, cutting the other fide, t*ll I brought the plank
to be about three inches thxk, ard fmooth on both fides.
Any body may judge my gre; t labour, and fatigue in fuch a
.piece of work; but this I wtnt through ftith patience, as
"alfo many oth- r things that my circumilances made necef-
fary for mc to do.
The harveft months, November and December, were
now at hand, in whkh 1 had t. e pleafing profpedYof a very-
good crop. But here 1 met with a r.cw rHsfcrtune; for
the goats and hares. ha\ing tafted of the fwretnefs of the
blade, kept it fo Ihort, that it hzd ret itrength to ih^ot-up
into a fralk. To prevent th's, J encloledil with a hedge,
and by day fliot feme of its devourers; and my deg which I
had tied to the field gs^e, keeping batkfng all right, fo
frightened thofe creatures, that I got tn-bely rid of them.
Bui no (ooncr did 1 get rid of thefe, than other enemies
appeared, to wit, whole flocks of feveral forts of birds, who
only waked till my back was turr.ed to ruin me. So much
C
did this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three of th«
malefactors ; ard afterwards ferved them as they do notori-
ous thieves in England, hung them,up in chains, as a terror
Xo others. And, indeed, fo good an effect had this, that they
not only forfook the com, but all that part of the ifland, fo
long as theie criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of Decem-
ber, which was m> lecond harveft, I reaped it with,a fithe^
made of one of my broad fwords. I had no fatigue in cut-
ting down my firfl crop, it was fo flender. The ears I car-
ried home in a bafket, rubbing it with my hands, jnftead of
.thrafhing it; and when the harveft Was over, found my
Jialf pecit of feed produced near two buihels of rice and
two bufhels and a half of barley. And now I plainly fore-
faw, that, by God's gocdnefs, I mould be furnifhed with
bread; but yet I was concerned, becaufe I knew not how
fo grind or make meal of my corn, or,bread, neither knew
how to bal^e it. I wojild not, however, ta*e any of the
crop, but refolvcd to preferve it againfl next feafon, and,,
in the mean while, ufe my belt endeavours to provide my-
self with other food.
But where were my labours to end ? The want of a
plough to turn up the earth, or (hovel to dig it, I conquered
by making me a wooden fpade. The want of a harrow I
fupplied myfelf with dragging over the.com a jjreat bough
of a tree. When it was growing I was forced to fence it.;
.when ripe to.mow.it, carry it home, thrafh h, part it from
the chaff, and fave it. And, after all, I wanted a mill to grind
it, fieve to drefs it, jeft and fait to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it. This .fet my brains rp wqrk to find
iome expedient fqr,evcry one of thefe neceiJaries againil the
next harvelL
And now having more feed, mytfirftcare was(to prepare
.me more land. 1 pitched upon two large flat pieces pf
ground near ,my caille, fcr that purpofe, in which 1 fowed
my feed, and fenced it with ag;cod hedge. This took me
up three months: by which time the wjet feafon comingqn,
and the rain keeping me within doors, ,1 found feveral oc-
cafions' to employ myfelf; and, while at work, ufed to di-
vert m)ielf in talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and (peak his own name Poll* the.iirft welcome word 1 ever
heard ipoke in the ifland. 1 had been a long time con-
triving hqw to mak,e earthen veffeis, which 1 wanted ex-
tfcmcly, and when I confidered the heat of the climate, I did
not doubt but if I could find any fuch clay, I might potch
up a pot, ftrong enough when dried in the fun, to bear
handling, and to hold any thing that *as dry, as corn, meaJ,
and other things.
To be ftiort, the clay I found ; but it would occafion the
mod fericus perfon to fenile, to fee what awkward ways f
took, and what ugly mifhapen things I made; how many
either fell out or cracked by the violent heat of the fun, and
fell in pieces when they were removed : fo that I think it
was two months time before I could perfect any thing; and
even then but twoclumfy things in imitation of earthen jars.
Thefe, however, I very genily placed in wicker bafkets,
made on purpofe for them, and between the pot and the
bafeets, fluffed it full of rice and barley-ffraw, and thefe l
prefumed would hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal
when the corn wss bruifed. As for the fmaller things, I
made them with better fuccefs ; fuch as little round pots,
flat difhesj pitchers, and pipkins, the fun baking them very
hard.
Yet frill f wanted one thing abfolutely neceflary, and that
was an earthen pot, not only to hold my liquid, but alfo to
bear the fire, which none of thefe could do. It once hap-
pened, that as I was putting cut ray fire, 1 found therein a
broken piece of one of my veflels burnt as hard as rock, and
red as a tile. This made me thiBk of burning fome pots;
and having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed tnree large pipkins, and two or three pots in a pile
one upon another. The fire 1 piled round the outfide, and
dry wood on the top, till I faw the pots in the i fide r&d
hot, and found that they were not cricked at all: and when
I perceived them perfectly red, I let one of them itand in
the fire about five or fix hours, till the clay melted by the ex-
tremity of the heat, and would have run to glafs had I fuf-
fered it; upon which I fiackened my fire by degrees, till the
rednefs abated; and watching them till the morning, I found
I had three very goud p-pkins, and two earthen pots, as
well burnt and fit ior my turn as I could defire.
Ko joy could be greater than mine at this difcovery. For
after this, 1 may fay, I wanted for no fori of earthen-ware.
1 filled one of my pipkins with water to boil me fome meat,
' which it did admirably well, and with a piece of kid, 1 made
me fome good broth, as *el.l as my cireumitances would
afford me m that time.
The-next concern I had, was to get me a ftone mortar to
' beat feme corn in, inftead of a mil) to grind it. Here, in-
deed, I was at a great'lofs,,as not being fit for a Hone-cutter ;
and many days I fpent to- find out a great ftone big enough
to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar, and ,'ftrong enough
to bear the weight cf a petite, and that would break the corn
vvithout filling it with land. But all the fionesof tfce ifland
.being of a mouldering.nature, rendered my fearch f uitlefs;
&ti& then I.refolded"'to look out for a great block of hard
>ivood, which having found, I formed.it with my, axe and
hammer, and then, with infinite labour, made a hollow in it,
•juft as the Indians of Brazil,make their canoes. When I
had finimed this, I made a great peftle of iron wood, and
then laid them up againft my fucceedmg harveft.
' My next bufinefs was to make me a fieve to fift my meal,
and part it from the bran and hufk. Having no fine.thfa
canvas to fearce the ratal through, I could not tell what to
do. What linen 1 had was reduced to rags: I had goat s
hair enough, but neither tools to work it, nor did I know
how to fpin it: At length I remembered I had fome neck-
cloths of calico or muflin of the failors, which I had brought
out of the (hip, and with thefe 1 made three (mall fieves,
Drooer enough for the work. -
iP JPcome nol to confider the baking part. The want Oj
an oven I fupplied by making fome earthen pans very broad
bat not deep When I had a mind to bake I made a great
fire upon the hearth, the tiles of which I had made myfelf;
;and when, the wood was burnt into live coals, 1 fFr-« them
over it, till it became very hot: then fweepmg them away,
7fe dawn my loaves, and whelming down the earthen pots
upon them, drew, the afl.es and coals all around the outndes
XL pot to coetiaue the heat; and in thu manner 1 baked
my barky loaves, as -well as' if I had been .complete paftry-
™0f and alfo made of.the rice feveral cakes and ?<*&***>
It'is no wonder.that,tbefe things took me up the belt
Jn of a year, fince whac.Wermediate ume 1 had was be-
lowed in manning my new harveft and bufc.ndry ; for ,n
the moper feafrni .reaped my corn, carried u home, and
laid h theearin-myJarge.b.flcel., nil I hai (.me to
'Sb "nftead of thrafhing it. And, now, indeed, my corn
.aO>, inueaa o & produced me twenty bufhels of
bX and aTmuch rice /hat l..ot only began «. «<e it
Si tat w« thinking how W,«thtje my barns, and re-
folved to fow as much at a time as would be fufRcient fo*
me for a whole year. •
All this while, the profpecl of land, which I had ieen
from the other fide of the ifland, ran in my mind, hM$
meditated a deliverance from this phce, though the fear
of greater misfortunes might have deterred me from it. For,
showing that 1 had attained that, place, 1 ran the hazard 'of
being killed and eaten by the devouring jcanniba's; and jf
they were not fr* )et I might be (1 in, as other Europeans
had been, who fell ir-to their hands. Notwithstanding all
this, m> thoughts ran continually upon that flicre, 1 now
wifhed for my b.qy Xury, and die longboat with the moul-
der of mutton mil : I.went »n the (hip's bpat that had been
cafta great way en the ihore in the late flprm. . She-was
removed but a li;tle; but her bott m be;i:g. turned up by
the. impetuofity and fury of the-waves and:*wind,;T fell to
work with all the.ftrength I had> wiihr levers and .rollers I.
had-xut from the wood* to turn Jier*- and repair the damages "
fhe had fujtained." This wovk took- me up three or four-
weeks,, when flndjrrg my littletlrength all invain, 1 fell to
undermining] it.by digging away the fand, and foto mafee ^
it fall, down, fettirsg pieces of wood to thrult and guide it
in the fall. But arter this-was done, I was Hill unable to
itir it up, or to;get under it, much lefs to-movent forward •
towards, the watei*, and fo I was forced :to give it over. . ^
This difappoi» tment, however, did not frighten me. I.
began to think whether it was not poifible for me, tp make*
a canoe orperigua, fuch as. the Indians make cf the trunk.
of a tree. But here 1 lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to move it ia
the water when it was roacJe.. However, to work I we,nr
upon il., Hopping all the inquiries I cou'd make, with this
very fimple, anfwer Imad-e to myfelf, Let's firft m<*ta it,
I'll warrant I'll;find- fome way cr other to get,ifcalong when
it is done; - ,
I ftrit cut down a ceckr-tre,?, which was, five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower, part next tru fturr.p, and four
feet, eleven inches diameter at. the end of twenty- two feetr ,
after which it leilcned for a fpacc, and then parted into,
branches. Twenty days was 1 a hacking and hevving this
tree at the bottom, fouiteen more in cutting off,the, branches,
and limbs, and a whole month in fliaoing it like the bottcnv
of a. boat. As for the infide, I was three weeks with a>~
C3
mallet and chilTel, clearing it in faeh a manner, as that it
was big enough to carry twenty-fix men, much bigger than
any canoe I ever faw in my life, and confequently Sufficient
to tranfport me and all my effe&s to that wifhed-for (bore
I To ardently defired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the greater! diffi-
culty to get it into the water, it lying about one hundred
yards from it. To remedy the firft inconvenience, which
was a riling hill between the boat and the creek, with won-
derful pains and labours I dug into the bowels of the ea«h,
and made a declivity. But when this was dene, all the
flrength I had was as infufficient to remove it, as it was when
I attempted to remove the boat. I then proceeded ro meafure
the diitance of ground, refolving to make a canal in order
to br'ng the waler to the canoe, lince I could not bring the
canoe to the water. But as this Teemed to be impracticable
to myfeU alone, under the fpace of eleven or twelve years,
it brought me into fome fort of confideration; fo that I
concluded this alfo to be impohT>le, and the attempt alto-
gether vain. I now faw, and not before, what flupidity it
is to begin work bef rr we reckon its coft, or judg^ rightly
our own abilities to go through with its performance.
In the height of this work my fourth year expired, from
the time I was caft on this ifland. At this time I did not
forget my anniversary; but kept it with rather greater de-
votion than before. For now my hopes being frullrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing to do with ;
and very well might I fay, as lather Abraham fatd unto Dives,
** Between thee and me there is a gulph fixed." And in-
deed I was feparated from its wickednefs too, having nei-
ther the lull of the fiefh, the lull of the eye, nor the pride
of life; I had nothing to covet, being lord, king, and em-
peror over the whole country I had in pofleffion, without
difputeand without control: I had loadings of corn, plenty
of turtle?, timber in abundance, and grapes above meafure.
What was all the reft to me ? The money I had lay by me
as defpicable drofs, which I would freely have given for a
groft of tf bacco pipes, or a hand-mill to grind my corn; in
a word, the nature and experience of thefe things dictated
tome this ju ft reflexion ; Tnat the good things of this world
are no farther good to us, than they are for our ufe; and
that whatever we may heap up to give to ethers, we can
but enjoy as much as we ufe and no more.
Thefe thoughts rendered my mind more eafy than ufual.
Every time I fat down to meatr I did it with thankfufnefs,
admiring the providential hand of God, who, in this wildei-
nefs, had fpread a table to me. And now I considered what
I enjoyed, ratber than what I wanted ; compared my prefent
condition with what I at firft exp &ed it fhould b,e : how
1 fhould have done, if I had got nothing out of the (hip %
that I mod have perilhed before I had caught fifli or turtles;
or lived, had 1 found them, like a mere lavage, by eating
them raw^and pulling them to piecrs with my claws, like a
beift. I next compared my iiation to that which I deferr-
ed ; how undutiful 1 had been to rrfy parents ; how deftitute
of the fear of God : how vaid of every thing that was good ;
and how ungrateful for thofe abundant mercies I had re-
ceived from Heaven,- being fed, as it wercr by a miracle,
even as great as Elijah's being fed by ravens; and caft on
a place where there is no venomous creatures to poifon or
devour me; in frnrt, making God's tender mercies matter
of great confolation, [ relinquilhed ail fadnefs, and gav«
way to contentment.
As long as my ink ccnt'nued, which with water I made
laft as long as 1 could, I ufed to minute do vn the days of the
month on which any remarkable event happened.—A4id>
Firft, [ obfcrved', that the fame day I forfook my parents
and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to fea; the
fame day afterwards in the next year, I was taken and made
a flave by the Salee rovers^
That the very day I efcaped out of the wreck of the (hip
in Yarmouth roads, a. year after, on the fame day, I mads
my efcape from Salee in my patron*$ filhtng-boat.
And, on the 30th of September, being the day in the year
I was born on, on that d^y twenty-fix years after, was I
miraculoufly faved, and call a(hore on this iiland.
The next thing that wafted after my ink, was the bif-
cuits which I had brought out of the flvip ; and though [ al-
lowed myfelf but one cake a day for above a twelvemonth,
yet I was quite out of bread fjr near a year, before^ I got
any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decav, and my
linen had been gone long before. Ho-vever, I had pre-
ferved about three dozen of the failors* chequered fhirts,
which proved a great refrefhment to me, when the violent
beams of the fun would not fuffer me to bear any of the fea*
C4
men's heavy watch-coats; Which made me turn Jailor, ind
after a miferable botching manner, convert them to jackets
To preferve my head, I made me a cap of goat's fkin, with
the hair outwards to keep oat the rain ; which indeed ferved
me fo well, that afterwards Imade me a waiftcoat and open-
kneed^ breeches of the fame; And* then I contrived a
fort of an umbrrlla^, covering-it with fkias, which not only
kept cut the heat of the fun, but rain alfo. Thus being eafy
and fettled-in .'my mind, my chief happinefs was toconverfe
with God, in mod heavenly and cmfortable ejaculation?.
For five years after this 1 csnsot fay any extraordinary
thing occurred to me.. My chief emplo)ment was tof cure
my raifms, and plar.t my bar'ey krd rice, both'of which I
had a year's provifion beforehand. But though I was dif-
appoimed in my frrft canoe, I made it, at in:ermediateume?,
my buf/nefs to make a feconcl^ of much inferior fize; and it
was two years before'Lhad fihilhed ir. But as I-perceived
it Would no 'wife anfWer my defign of failing to the other
.ihorei> my thoughts were confined io. lake a,lour round tjie
ifland, to fee what further difcoveries I could make. To
thisMnreht, after having moved her to the water, and tried
how'Ihe would fciJ, I fitted up a little maft to my boat, and-
made, a fail of ,the fhip's fail that-lay by me. I then ma.d,e
lockers or brxes at<th^ end of vir, to put innece£iries> pro-
vifion, and ammuni ion, which would preferya them dry,
either from rain or tire fpray of the fea ; and in--the infide
of the boat, I cut me a long hoUow place to lay my gun ipj
and to keep it dry, rmde a flag to hang over ir. My urn-
breila I fixed in a* ftep in -the firm; like a mail, to keep the
Jieat of the fun off me. Ani now refolviag to iee the cir-
cumference of my lit'tle kingdom,' I victualled my fhip for
the voyage, ptun.ngin two dozens of my barley-breai loaves,'
an earthen pot full of'parched rfce^ a little bottle of run?,
half a goae,:p wderand mot, and two wa'ch coats. It was
the (3th of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or capti-
vity, that I fet out in ihis voyage; which was much longer
than I expeded, 'being obl'ged to^put farther cut, by icafon
of the recks that lay a great way in the fea. And indeed
fo much did tr,efe rocks furprife mr, that I was for putting
back, fearing that if I ventured farther it would be out of
my power to return. In this uncertainty I came to an an-
chor joft on fltore, to which 1 waded with my gun on my
ihoulder, and then< climbing up a hill, which oyeilaoked
( -
that point, I faw the full extent of it, and fo refcived Jo rua
all hazards. , , .». .•-....»."
In this profpeft from the hill, I perceived a violent cm- <
rent running to the eaft, coming very clofe to. the point 5
which I ihem'ore carefully obfcrved, thinking it dangerjDpsr -
and that when I came to iti I might be drove into the Tea
by its. force, and not able -to-return to the ifiard; ard cer-
tainly it mult have been fo, had 1 not made this obfer various -.
for on the other fide was the like current-, with this differ- -
er.ce/tfiat'it- fet off'at a greater difUnee; and I perceived
there, was a flrong'eddy under the land ; fo "that my chief
bufir.efs. was'to work ot^t of the. fifft current, and conveni- -
ently get lVto the tddy.- Two days I ftaid.here, the wind -
blowing very briMy £. S: E. which being contrary to the "
coirent, leaves a great breach of the fea upon the po.nt; -
fo it .v*ast neither fit for me to keep too near the fhore, on
account of the breach ; nor ft^nd at too near a d.iftance, for
fear of the flreams. . That night the wind abating, it grew ',
fo, calm that I ventured out.; and here. I may be a monu-
ment-to all rafh and ignorant pilots; fir 1 was no fooner r
come to the point, and not above-the boat's length from; c
fhore, but 1 was gotv into deep,water, with a current like
a mill, which-drove my boat along fo violently, that it was ;
imp ffible for me to keep near the edge of it, but forced •
me more and more out from the eddy to the left of me; and «
all I could do with my paddles were ufelefs, there .being no *
wind "to help me.-
Now i began to look^ipon myfelf'as quire loft, fince, as :
the current ran on both fides of the ifland, I was very cer- -
tain they mull join again, and then I had no hopes but of
perilling fcr .want in -the feay after what provift-^rs I had j
was fpenu.or before, if a florin fhould happen to ar fe»
Who t:an conceive the^ prefent angu'fli of my mind at ~
this calamity ? With longing eyes did [look upon my little \
kingdom^ and thcu^ht tne ifland the pleafanteft place in *
the univerfe.. Happy, thrice, happy drfert, <faid 1, fhall L
never fee. rhee more ? Wretched creature 1 whither,am I
going r Whv did I murmur at my Icnefbme condition, when
now I would give the whole .world to.be thither again?
While I was thus comp'aning, I found myfelf to be driven
about two leagues into the fVa ; however^ I laboured till K
my fhength was far fpent, to keep my. boat as far north as •*
n.offibly V could, r,o that fide of the current where, the eddy j
lay on. About noon 1 perceived a little breeze of wind
fpring upfrom the S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and
was ftill more elated, when in about half an hour, it blew a
gentle fine gale. Had any thick weather fprung up, I had
been loft another way ; for having no compafs on board, I
fhould never have found the way to fteer towards the iiland,
if once it had difappeared j but it proving the contrary, I
fet up my mail again, ipread my fail, and flood away
northward as much as 1 could, to get rid of the current. And
no foqner did the boat begin to ftretch away, but I perceiv-
ed, by the clearnefs of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was ftrong, the" water was foul j
and where it was clear the current abated. To the eaft, I
foon faw about hglf a mile, a breach of the fea upon fome
rocks, which caufed it again to feparate ; and as the main
force of it drove away more foutherly, leaving the
rocks to the north eaft* fo the other came back by the re-
pulfe of the rocks, making a fharp eddy, which returned
back again to the north-well with a very fwift ftream.
They who have experienced what it is to be reprieved
upon the ladder, or to be faved from thieves, juft going to
take away their lives, or fuch as have been in the like cala-
mities with my own, may guefs my prefent exefefs of joy ;
how heartily I ran to my boat into the ftream of this eddy, and
how joyfully I fpread my fail to the refrefhing wind, Hand-
ing cheerfully before it, with a fmart tide under foot. By
the afliftance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when being in the wake of the ifland, betwixt
the two currents, I found the water to be In a fort of a ftand.
About four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within a
league of the ifland, and perceived the points of the rock,
which caufed this difafter, ftretching out, as I obferved be-
fore, to the fouthward, which throwing off the currents more
fouthwardly, had occafioned another eddy to the north. But
having a fair briik gale, I flretched acrofs this eddy, and in
an hour came within a mile of the fhore, where I foon
landed to my unfpeakable comfort; and after an humble
proftrafion, thankmg God for my deliverance, with refo-
lution. to lay all thoughts of efcaping alide, I brought my
boat fafe to a little cove, and ,kid me down to take a wel-
come repofe, \Vhen I awoke, I was confidering how I
might get my boat home; and coafting along the fhore, I
came to a goad bay which ran up to a rivulet or brook,
where finding a fafe harbour, I (lowed her as fafe as if fhe
had been in a dry dock made on purpofe for her.
I now perceived myfelf not far from the place where be-
fore I had travelled on foot; fo taking nothing with me,
except my gun, and umbrella, I began my journey ; and in
the evening came to my bower, where I again laid me down?
to reft. 1 had not ilept long before I was awakened in
great furprife, by a ftrange voice that called me feverat
times, " Robin, Robin, Robinfon Crufoe, poor Robin I
'< Where are you, Robinfon Crufoe? Where are you?
" Where have you been ?"
So faft was 1 afleep at fir ft, that I did not awake tborough1-
ly : but half afleep and half awake, I thought I dreamed
that fomebody fpoke to me. Bur, as the voice repeated
Robinfon Crufoe federal times, being terribly affrighted,
I flarted up in the utmoft confufion; and no fooner were
my eyes fully open, but I beheld my pretty Poll fitting on
thejtop of the hedge, and foon knew that it was he that calU
ed me ; for jufl in juch bewailing language I ufed to talk
and teach him; which he fo exactly learned, that he would
fit upon my finger, and lay his bill clofe to my face, and
cry, u Poor Robinfon Crufoe, where are you/ where have:
** you been* ? how came you here V and fuch like prattle I
had constantly taught him. But even- though I knew it to-
be the parrot, it was a great while before 1 could adjuft my-
felf; being amazed how the creature got thither, and that
he mould fix about that place, and no where elfe. But
now being affured it could be no other than- my honeil
Poll, my wonder ceafedr and reaching out my hand, and
calling familiarly Poll, the creature came to me, and perch*
ed upon my thumb as he was wont, conftartly prating to-
me with €i Poor Robinfon Crufoe, and how did I comehere,-
** and where had I been ?" as if the bird was overjoyed to
fee me ; and fo I took him home along with me.
I was now pretty well cured of my rambling tofca ;* yet
I could with my boat, which hid coit me fo much trouble
and pains, on this fide the ifland once more, bat which in-
deed was impracticable. I therefore began to lead a vjry
mired life, living near a twelvemonth- in a very conten e 1
manner, wanting for njthing except onverfacion. As ;•>
mechanic labours, which my neceflities obliged ms tj, I
fancied I could, upon occafioi, ma've a co'er.ible c^rpencer,
were toa poor tools I had to work withal b.n g^oi. 3c-
. C<3
fides,'as,I improved in my earthen-ware, I contrived to
make them with a wheel, which I found much eafier and
betUr, m king my work fhapely, whxh before was rude
and ugly. But, I think, I was ncv-r fo elated with my
own performance or pr< je&, than for being able to make a
tobacco-p'pe, which, though it proved an awkward clumfy
thing, yet'it was very fou^d. and earned thefmoke per-
fectly weil, to my great fati'faction.
1 alfo improved my wicker ware, making me abundance of
jnecefiary ba&e'ts, which, though not very handfome, were
very, handy and convenient to fetch things home in, as alfo
for holding my (lores, barley, r ce; and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine after
what manner I' mould kill t^e goats cr birds to live on after
it was all gone.' Upon winch I contrived manv ways to
enfnare the goats, and fee if 1 c-uld catch them alive, parti-
cularly a (he-goat wi h'\young. At hft I had my Sefue ;
for, making pitfalls and traps baited with barley ard rice, I
found one momi-g, in one of them, an old he-goat, and in
the other, three kids, one male, the other two females.
So boitferous was the old one, that I could not bring him
aw.ay. But I forgot the old proverb, <4 That hunger will
«c tame a iron;" for had I kept him three or four days with-
out proviftons, and then given him fome water, with a litt'e
corn, he would have been as tame as a young kid. The
other creatures 1 bound with firings together: but! had
jxreat difficulty before I could bring them to my habitation.
It was fome time before they would feed ; but throwing them
fweel corn, it fo much tempted them that they began to be
turner. From thence I concluded, that if I defigned to fur-
nifti- myfilf with goat's 'flefti, when my ammunition was
fpent, the tamely breeding them up, like a flock of (heep,
about my fettlemert, was the only-method I could take. I
concluded, alfo, I muft feparate'thc wild from the tame, or
el'e they would always run wild-as they grew up; and the
belt way ft.r this, was to have feme mclofed piece of ground
well fenced, either with a hedge or pale, to keep them (o
cfTe&ually, that thofe within might not break out, or thofe
without freak in. Such an undertaking was very great for
one pair of hands ; but as there was an abfolute neceffify for
doinff it, my firft care was to find a convenient piece of
ground where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
Eater'u> drink, and cover to keep them irom the fun.
OF RORJNSQNT CRUiOF. &V
Here again I gave another inftance of my ignorance and?-
inexperience, pitching upon a piece of meadow land fo large/
thati had I encjofed it;, the hedge or pale had been a.t-Ieaft;
two miles about. Indeed, had it been ten miles, I had
time enough to do it in ; but }hen I did not confider that my
goats-would be as wild in To much compafs, as if theyjiad
had the whcle. ifland, and cor;fequently as difficult for me
to catch them. This thought came into my head, after I
had carried it on.. I bel ev, about fify yards; Itherefci;e-
altered my fcheme,and refolved to inclofe a piece of ground
about one hundred and fi;ty yards in lengthy and one hun-
dred in breadth, fufficient enough for as many as wo Ad main-
tain me, tiilfuch time as my flock increafed, and then I could
add more ground. I now vigoroufl-r profecuted my work,.-
and it took me about three months in hedging the firft piece,.-
in which ti»re L tethered the three kids in the beil part of
it, feeding them as near me as pohlble, to make them fami-
liar; and indeed I very often would carry Jome ears of bar-
ley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand ; by -
which ihey grew fo t^me, that w-hen my enclofure was >
finimed, and [ had let them loofe, they would run after me
for a handful of corn.. This indeed anfwered my end ; and t
in a year and a half's time, I had a flock of about twelve
goats, kids and all; and in twa years after, they amounted
to forty-three,, befidea what i had taken and killed for my
futtenance. After which I enclofed five feveral pieces of *'
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive ihem into, thal^
I might take them as I had occafion.
In this pnjecl I Iikewife found additional bleffings; for -
I not only had plenty of goat's flefh, but milk too, which in
my beginning I did not fo much as think of. And, indeed, -
thrugh I had never milked a cow, much lefs a goat, or feen •
• butter or cheefe made, yet, after fome tffays and mifcar*
riages, I made me both, and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power comfort his
creatures, even in the midft of their greateft calamities ?
How can he fweeten the bittereft. providences, and give us
reafon to magnify him in dungeons and prifons! what a
bounteous table was here fcread in a wildernefs for me,
where I expected nothing at firft but to perifh for hunger t
Certainly a Stoic would have fmiled to fee me at dinner.
There fat my royal majefty, an abfolute prince and ruler
of my kingdom, attended by my dutiful fubjects, whom, if I
pleafed^ I could cither hang, draw, quarter, give them
liberty, or take it away. When I dined, I feemed a king,
eating alone, none daring to prefume to do fo till I had
done. Poll, as ifhe had been my principal court favourite
was the only perfon permitted to talk with me. My old,
but faithful dog, now grown exceedingly crazy, and who
had no fpecies to multiply his kind upon, continually fat an
my right-hand; while my two cats fat on each fide of the
table, expecting a bit from my hand, as a principal mark of
my royal favour. Thefe were not the cats I had brought
from the fhip; they had been dead long before, and interred
near my habitation by my own hand. But one of them, as
1 fuppofe, generating with a wild cat, a couple of their
young I~had made tame ; the reft run wild into the woods,
and in time grew fo impudent as to return and plunder me-
of my ftores, till fuch time as I (hot a great many, and the
reft left me without troubling me any more. In this plen-
tiful manner did I live, wanting for nothing but converfa-
tion. One thing indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat; I knew not which way to get her round the ifland
One time I refolved to go along the fhore by land to her;
but had any one in England met with fuch a figure, it would
either have affrighted them, or made them burft into
laughter ; nay, I could not but fmile to myfelf at my habit,
which I think in this place will be very proper to defcribe.
The cap I wore on my head, was great, high, and ihape-
lefs, made of a goat's fkin, with a flap or pent-houfe hang-
ing down behind, not only to keep the fun from me, but fro
moot the rain off from running into my neck, nothing being
more pernicious than the rain falling upon the flefh in thefe
climates. I had a mort jacket of goat's fkin> whofe hair
hung down fuch a lengthen each fide, that it reached down
to the calves of my legs. As for (hoes and ftockings, I had
none, but made a femblance of fome thing, I know not what
to call them j they were made like buikins, and laced on
the fides like fpatterdafhes, barbaroufly ftiaped like the reft
of my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's /kin dried, girt
round,me with a couple of thongs, ir.ftead of ouckles; on
each of which, to fupply the deficiency -f fvord and dag-
ger, hung my hatchet and faw. I hau another belt, not k>
broad, yet faftened in the fame manner, which hung over
my ihoulder, and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung
two pouches, made of goat's /kin, to hold my powder and
(hot. My bafket I carried on ray back, and my gun on my
ihoulder; and over my head a great clumfy ugly goat's
fkin unbrella, which however, next to my gun, was the
mod neceflary thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not fo fwarthy as the Mulattoes, as might have been
expected from one who took fo little care of it, in a climate
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. At one time
my beard grew fo long that it hung down about a quarter
of a yard; but as I had both razors and fciffors in itore,J[
cut it all orF, and fuffcred none to grow, except a large pair
of Mahometan whifkers, the like of which I had fcen wore
by fome Turks at Salee, not long enough indeed to hang a
hat' upon, but of fuch a monftrous fize, as would have
amazed any in Eaglaod to have fecn.
But all this was of no confequence here, there being none
to obferve my behaviour or habit. And fo without fear
ar.d without control, I proceeded on my journey, the profe-
cution of which took me up five or fix days. I firft travelled
along th$ fea-ihore, directly to the place^where I firli brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but now hav-
ing no boat to take care of, I went overland a nearer way
to the fame height that I was before upon ; when looking
forward to the point of the rock, which lay out, and which
I was forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to fee
the fea fo foiooth and quiet, there being no rippling motion,
nor current, any more than in other places. This made me
ponder fome time to gaefs the reafon of it, when at iafl I
was convinced that the ebbfetting from the weft and joining
with the current of water from fome great river on Ihore,
mud be the occasion of thefe rapid ftreams; and that, con-
sequently, as the winds blew more weflvvardly or more
fouthwardly, fo the current came the nearer, or went the
farther from the fliore. To fatisfy my curiofity, I waited
there till evening, when the time of ebb being made, I
plainly perceived from the rock the current again as before,
with this difference, that it ran farther off, near half a league
from the (bore, whereas, in my expedition^ it fet clofe up-
on it, furioufly hurrying me and my canoe along with it,
which at another time it would not have done. And now
I was convinced, that, by obferving the ebbing and flowing
of the tide, I might eauly bring my boat round the ifland
again. But when I began to think of putting it in practice
the remembrance of ths late danger ftruck me with fuch
&4f- LIPB AND'A.DVBNTUOS"
Horror, that I changed my refolution> and formed'another,
which was, more fafe, though more laborious; and this was
toi make another canoe, and to have one for one fide of the
ifland, and one for the other. 
I had now two plantains in the ifland; the firfl my .
little fortification, fort, or caftle, with many large and fpa-
cious improvements; ferity this time 1 had enlarged the cave
behind-me wirt feveral fittle caves, one within another,
to hold my bafkets, com and ftrawi Th? piles with which
I made mywaU,were grown fo lofty and great, as obfeured
my" habitation: And near this commodious and plea Ant
fett'ement, lay riiy well-cultivated and improved corn-fields,
which kindly yielded me their fruit in the proper feafen.
My fecond plantation was that near my country feat, or
little bower, where my grapes flouriihed, and where, having
planted many flakes, 1 made, enclofures for my goats, io
ftrongly fortified by labour and time, that it was much ftronger
than a wall, and consequently impoflible for them to break
through. As for my bower itfelf, I kept it conftantly in
repair, and cut the trees in fuch a manner, as made them
grow thick and wild, and form a moft delightful fhade. . In
the centre of th's, Hood my tent> thus erecled : I had driven
four piles in the ground, fpreading over it a piece of the
fhip's fail; beneath which I jnade, a fort of a couch with the
ikins of the creatures I.had fkin, and other things; and
having laid thereon one of .the fallows blanker, which I had
faved from the wreck of the.(hip, and covering myfelf with a
great watch-coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this feitlement did I ufc to vific
my boat, and keep her in very good order. . And fometime*
I would venture in her a caft or two from the (bore, but
no farther,* left either a ftrowg current, a fudden ftormy
wind, or fome unlucky accident lhouIdJiurry me from the
ifland as before. But now 1 entreat your attention, whilft
1 proceed to inform you of a new, but moft furprifing,
fcene of life which here befel me.
You may eafily fuppofe, that after having been here fo
long, nothing could be mere amazing than to fee a human
creature. One day it happened, that, going to my boat, I
faw the print of a man's naked foot on the Ihore, very evi-
dent on the fand, as the toes, heels, and every p&rt of it.—
Had Ifeen an apparition of the moft frightful ftiape, I coujd
not have been more confounded. My willing ears gave
the (Tricteft attention. I caft my eyes around, but could
fatisfy neither the one nor the other- I proceeded alter-
nately to eve;y part of the more, but with equal effect}
neither could I fee any other mark, though the fand about '
it was as fufceptible to take impreflion, as that which was
(o plainly ftamped. Thus, ftruck wLh confufion and hor-
ror, I returned to my habitation, frightened at every bufh :
and tree, taking 'every thing for men; and p flefled with •
the wildeft ideas: That nig in my eyes never ckfed. I
formed nothing but the moft difmal imaginations, concluding
it mud be the mark of the devil's feet which I had Teen*'
For otherwise how could any mortal come to this iil'and?
where was the (hip that tranipor ed them ? and what figns-
of any other footiieps? Trough thefe kerned very (1-rong
reafons for fuch a fuppolition, yet (thought 1) why fhouid
the devil make the print of his foot to no purpofe,.as I can «
fee, when he might have taken other ways to have terrified
me ? why mould.he leave his mark on the other fide-of *he
ifland, and that too on the fands, where the furgjog -waves -
of the ocean might foon have erafed the impreflion." Surely
this aclion is not ccnGilent with the fubtlety of Satan, fard
I td myfelf; but rather muft be fome dangerous creature,
fome, wild favage of the main land over again} me, thar*;
venturing tco Far in the ccean, his been driven,here; either
by'.tha violent currents or contrary windsi and not caring
to ftay on this defolate ifland, has gone back to fea a<rain.
Happy, indeed, faid I to myfelf, 1hat none of the fafage
had feen me in that place; yet 1 was not altogether with-
cu£ fear, left, hav-irjg found my boat, ti.ey mould return in^
numbers and devour me, or. at leafl carry away all my com
and deilroy my flock of tame goats, fn a word, all my reli-
gious hopes vanilhed, as though I thought God wou'd not
now protect me by his power, who h~d fo wonderfully pre-
served me fo long.
What various change.* of Providence are there in the life
of man? How change ible ar? our affections, according to
different circumilances? We love to day, w.iat we hate
M-morrow j we fhun" ore hour wvat we feek the nexc.
This was- evident in me ia the muft confpxuous manners'
For I, who before hx\ i~o much lamented my condition, in
being' banifhed fro.irall human kind, was now even ready
U) expire, when I confidered that a man had fet his foat a a:.
this defolate ifland. But when I coniidered my flation of
life, decreed by the infinitely wife and good providence of
God, that I ought not to difpute my Creator's fovereignty,
who has an undoubtfd right to govern and difpofe of his
creatures as he thinks convenient; and that his juflice and
mercy could either punifh or deliver mer I fay, when I
confidered all this, I comfortably found it my duty to truft
fincerely in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly refign
myfelf to his divine will.
One morning lying on my bed, thefe words of the facred
writing* came into my mind, u Call upon me in the day of
«• trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou malt glorify roe.1'
Upon this fentence, rifing more cheerfully from my bed, I
offered up my prayers in the moll heavenly manner: and
when I had done, taking up my Bible to read, thefe words
appeared fir ft in my fight;—"Wait on the Lord, and be*
«* of good cheer, and he mall ftr«ngthen thy hearr: Wait
*' I fay on the Lord." Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all caufe of fadnefs upon that occafion.
Thus, after a world of apprehenfions and fears, for three
days and nights, I al laft ventured out of my caftle and
milked my goats, one of which was almoft fpolled for want
of it. I next (though in great fear) vifited my bower, and*
milked my flocks there alto; when growing bolder, I went
down to the more again, and meafuring the print of the foot
to mine, to fee,, perhaps, whether I myfelf had not occafion—
ed that mark, I found it much- fuperiorin largenefs: and fo
returned home, now abfoiutely convinced that either forhe
men had been afhore, or that the ifland mutt be- inhabited*
and therefore that I might be furprifed before f was aware.
I now begat* to think of providing for my feearity, and
refolved in my mind many different fchemes for that pur-
pofe. I firft ptopofed to cut down my inclafures, and turn
my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy might
not find them, and frequent the ifland in hopes of killing
the fame. Secondly, I was for digging up my corn-fields
for the very fame reafon. And, lattly, I concluded to de-
molifh my bovver, left, feeing a place of human contrivance*
they might come farther, and find out, and attack me in my
little caftle.
Such notions did the fear cf danger fuggeft to> me: and I
looked, I thought, like the unfortunate king Sad, when not
only opprelled by the Piiiliitin.es, but alfo forfaken by God
himfelf. And, it is ftrange, that a little before, having en-
tirely refigned myfelf to the will of God, I fhould now have
little confidence in him, fearing thofe more who could kill
this fading body, than him who could deftroy my immortal
foul.
Sleep was an utter Granger to my eyes that night; yet
namre, fpent and tired, fubmitted to a filent repofe the next
morning, and then joining reafon with fear, I ccnfidered
that this delightful and pleafant ifland might not be (o en-
tirely forfaken, as I might think; but that the inhabitants
from the other fhore might fail, either with a deftgn or from
neceflity, by crofs winds; and, if the latter circumirance,
I had reafon to believe they would depart the firit oppor-
tunity. However, my fear made me think of a place for re-
treat upon an attack. I now repented that I had made my
door to come oat beyond my fortification ; to rimeriy which
J refolved to make me a fecond one: T fell to work, there-
fore, and drove betwixt that double rows of trees, which I
planted above twelve years before, feveral itrong piles,
thickening it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
flrengthening the fo:>t of it with earth which I dag out of my
cave; I alfo made mc feven holes, wherein 1 planted my
mufkecs like cannon, fitting them into frames refembling
carriages. This being finilhed with indefatigable indu'try,
for a great way every whee, I planted (licks of ofiers like a
wood, about twenty thoufand of them, leaving a large (pace
between them and my wall, that [ might have room to fee
an enemy, and that they might not be fhekered rrrong the
young trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.—•
And, indeed, fcarce two years had pafled over my head,
when there appeared a lovely (hady grove, and in fix years
it became a thick wood, perfedly impifTible. For my fife-
ty, f left no avenue to go in or out; inftead of which I fet
two ladders, one to a part of a rock which was low, and
then br^ke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon
that; fo that when I took thefe down, it wa3 impoffible far
any man to defcend without hurting himfeif; and if they
had, they would dill be at the outfide of my outer wall.—•
But while I took all thefe meafure; of human pruience for
my own prefervation, I was not altogether unmindful of other
affain. To preferve my (lock of tame giats, that the ene-
my (hould not take all at once, I looked out for the moll
retired part of the ifland, which, was the place where I had
loft my fclf before-mentioned, and there finding a clear piece
of land, ccntainirg three acres, furrounded with thick woods,
I wrought Co hard, that in lefs than a month's time, I fenced
it fo well round, that my flocks were very well fecured in
it, and put therein two he-goats and ten fhe-goats. '-
All this labour was occafioned purely by fearful appre-
hensions, on account of feeing the pant of a man's foct.—
And not contented yet wi:h what I had don-, I fearched
for another place towards the welt point of the ifland,
where [ might alfo retain another flock. Then wandering
on this errand more to the weft of the ifland than ever I had
yet do*e, and carting my eyes towards the fea, roethought
I perceived a boat at a great diil3nce, but cculd not poffi-
biy tell what it was for want of my perfpe&ive glafs. I
confidered then it was no ftrange thing, to fee the print of
a man's foct; and concluding them cannibals, blefled God
for being cafl: on the other fide of the ifl&nd, where none of"
the/favages, as f thought, ever came. , But when I came
down the hill to the fhore, which was the S. W. point b£
the ifland, I was foon confirmed in my opinion ; nor can,
any ope defcribe my horror and amazement, when I faw
the ground fpread with Skulls, hands, feet, and bones c(
human bodies; ano\ particularly I perceived a fpape like,
a circle* in the miditof which bad been .a fire, about which
I conje&ured thefe wrenches fat, and unnaturally factificed
and devoured their fellow-creatures.
The horror and loa^hfomenefs of this dreadful fpectacle,
both confounded my fenfes, and made rhe discharge from my
flomacH in an exceflive manner. ; I then retur. ed towards
rny habitation ;, and,, in iny way thither, /bedding floods of
tear*;, and falling, down on my bended knees, gave God
thanks for making my natune'eostrary to thefe w/etches,
sfid delivering me fo long out of their hinds.
Though reafoi and; my,long .reiidenee' here had sfTared
m?, that thefe fsva'ges never came tip to .the thick woody,
part of the country, an J-that' I had no reaf n to be appre-
henfive of a diico^ery ; yet Tuch an abhorrence did I ftiil '
retain, that, for t-vo years after, I confined myfelf only to
rnv three phmations; I mean my ca'ile, country-frat, and
inclofure in the woods. And though in procefs of time my
dreadful apprehenfions began- to wear away, yet'my eyes
were, more vigilant for fear of beiflg furprifed, and I was.
very cautions of firing my gun, left being heard by thofe
creatures, they fhould proceed to attack me. I refolved,
however, manfully to lofe my life if thev did, and went
armed with three piftols, ftuck to my girdle, which, added
ro the defcripnon 1 have givn of myfeh before, made me
look with a very formidable appearance.
Thus my circumftances for fome time regained very
calm and undifturbed; and when I compared my condition
to others, Hound it far from bein^r miferable. And indeed,
would all peifons compare their circumlrances, , not with
thofe above them, but with thofe innumerable.unhappy ob-
jects beneath them, I am fure we fhould not hear thofe
daily murmurings and complainings that are in t e world.
For my part I wanted but few thing?. Indeed, the terror
which the favages had put me in, fpoi'ed fome inventions
for my own conveniences. One of my proje&s was to brew
me fome beer; a very whimfical one indeed, when- it is
tonfidered that I had neither caiks fufficient, nor could I
make any to preferve it in; neither had I hops to make it
keep, yell to make it work, nor a cepper or kettle to mabt
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, after fome years I might bring
this to bear, as 1 had* done other things. Bui now my inven-
tions were p'aced another way; and day and night I coujd
think of nothing but how 1 nrght deitroy loaie of ihefe
cannibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertainments ;
and fo faving a victim from being facrificed, that he might
after become my fervant. Mmy were my contrivances
after this purpo'e, and as many rao-e objections occurred,
after I had hatched them. 1 once contrived to dig a hole
under ihe place where they made their iire, and put therein
;iive or fix pounds of gunpowder, which would confequently
blow u? all thofe that were near it; and then I was loath to
fpend fo much upon them, left it mould not do that certain
execution I could defire, and but only affright and not kill
them. Having laid this defign afide, I again propofed to
myfelf to lie privately in ambuth, in fome convenient place,
with my three gu-s double loaded, and let fly at them in
the midil of their dreadful ceremonv : ard having kiiled
two or three of them at every {hot, fail upon the reft fud-
denly with my three piftols, and not let one mother's (on
efcape. This imagination p'eafed my fancy fo much, that
1 ufed to dream of it in the night time. To put my defiga
in execution, I was not long in feeking for a place conve-
niert for my purpofe, where unfeen 1 might behold every
action of the favages. Here I placed my two mufkets, each
of which was loaded with a brace of ilugs, and four or
five fxnaller bullets about the fize of piilol bullets; the
fo*ling-piece was charged with Rear a handful of the largeil
fwan fhot, and in every piftol was about four bullets—
And thus all things being prepared* no fooner would the
welcome light fpread over the element, but, like a giant re-
frtjhed with nvtne, as the Saiptuie has it, would 1 iflue forth
from my caftle, and from a lofty hill, three miles diftant,
view it J could fee any invaders approach unlawfully to
my kingdom. But having waited in vain two or three
months, it net only grew very tirefome to me, but brought
me to lbmc conlideration, and made me examine myifrlf,
what right I had to kill thefe creatures in this manner.
If (argued I to myfelf) this unnatural cuftom cf their's be
a fin offenfive to Heaven, it belongs to the Divine Being,
who alone has the vindictive power in his hands, tofhower
down his vengeance upon them. And, perhaps he does fo
in making them become one another's executioners. Or,
if not, if God thinks thefe doingsjuft, according to the
knowledge ihry conceive, what authority have 1 to pretend
to thwart the decrees of Providence, which has permitted
thefe actions for fo many ages, perhaps from almoft the be-
ginning of the creation? They never ofrenced me, what
right have I then to concern m>felf in their fhedding one
another's blood? And, indeed, 1 have fince known, they
value no more to kill and devour a captive taktn in war,
than we do to kill an ox, or eat mutton. 1 then co* eluded
it neceflarijy followed, that thefe people were no mere
murderers than Chriilians, who many times put whole troops
to the fword, after throwing down their arms.—Again, I
confidcred that if 1 fell upon them, I fhould be as much in
the wrong as the Spaniards, who had committed the great-
ell barbarities upon thefe people who had never offended
them in their whole lives ; as if the kingdom of Spain was
emirent for a race of men without common companion to
the miferable, a principal fign of the molt generous temper:
thefe confiderations made me paufe, and made me think I
had taken wrong meafures in my refolution: 1 now argued
with in) ielf, it was better for me never to attack, but to re-
main undifcovered as kng as I poflibly could j thaj an op-
polite conduct would certainly prove deftructive; for as it
was fcarcely to be fuppofed I could kill them all, I might
either be overpowered by the remaining, or that fome
xfcaping, might bring thoufands lo my certain deftruction.
And, indeed, religion took tneir part fo much as to convince
me how contrary it was to my duty to be guilty of fhedding
human blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever they
are to one another; that I had nothing to do with it, but
leave it to the God of all power and dominion, as I faid
before, to do therein what fcemed convenient to his heavenly
wifdom. And, therefore, on my knees I thanked the Al-
mighty for delivering me from blood-guiltjinefs, and begged
his protection that I might never fall into their hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had ralhly begun,
I never afcended the hill on that occafion afterwards: I only
removed my boat, which lay on the other fide of the ifland,
and every thing that belonged to her, toward the eaft, into
a little cove, that there might not be the ieaftfhadow of any
boat near, or habitation upon the ifland.—My caftie then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except when
,1 went out to milk my fhe-goats, and order my little flock in
the wood, which was quite out of danger : for fure I was
that ihefe favages never came here with expectations to
f£nd any thing, and confequently never wandered from the
coail: however, as theyvmight have been feveral times on
ihore, as well before as after my dreadful apprehenfions, I
looked back with horror to think in what Hate J might have
.been, had ,1 fuddenly met them flenderly armed, with one
gun only loaded with (mall lhot; and how great would
have been my amazement, if, inllead of one man's foot, I
had perceived fifteen or twenty favages, who having once
fet their eyes upon me, by .the fwifeneis of their feet'would
-have left me no poffibility of efcaping? Thefe thoughts
would fink my very ibul, fo that.l would fall into a deep
melancholy, till fuch time as the confidcration of my grati-
tude to the Divine Being moved it from my heart, 1 then
fell into a contemplation of the fecret fpringsof Providence,
and how wonderlully we are delivered, when infenlible of
it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of
doubt or hefitation, what fecret hints direct us in the right
way, when .we intended to go out of it; nay, perhaps con-
trary to our bufinefs, fenfe, or inclination. Upon which I
fixed within me this as a certain rule, never to difobey thofe
fecret impreflions of the mind, to the acting'or not acting
1 any thing ihat cffered, for which I yet cou'd aflign no rea-
fon. But let it le how it will, the advantage of this con-
-duct very eminemly appeared in the latter part of my abcde
-on this ifland : I am a flranger in determining whence tbefe
fec/et intin.ations oH Prcvidence derive ; yet melhinks they
are net only fome proof of the converfe of fpirits, but alfo
of the fecret communications they are fuppofed to have
withvthofe that have not pafTed through the gloomy vale of
death.
Thefeanxieties of mind,and the care of my prefer vatidn,
put a period (oall future inventions and contrivances, either
for accorrmodation or convenience. I now cared not to
drive a .nail, chop a flick, fire a gun, or make a fire, left
either the noife fb< uld be hoard, or the fmoke difcover me.
,And on this account I ufed to burn my earthen-ware privately
jn a cave which "I found in the wcod, and which 1 made
convenient for tha^r. purpofe ; the principal caufe that
brought me. here was to make charcoal, fo that I might bake
end drefs my bread and meat without any danger. At that
time, a curious accident happened me, which I fha'Jl now
jeJate.
While I was cutting down fome wood for making my
charcoal, 1 perceived a cavity behind a very thick branch
of under* ood. Curious to look into it, I attained its moutj),
and perceived it fufficient for me to iland upright in. "But
when 1 had entered, and took a further view, two rolling
ihinirg eyes, like flaming fUrs, fecmed to dart themfelv\s
at me ; fo that I made oil the hafte out that 1 could, as hot
knowing whether it was a devil or a monfter that had taken
.bis refidence'in thnt {.lace. When I recovered a Jit.le from
jny furprife, I callied myfelf a chcufand fools, for being
afraid to fee the devil one moment, who bad new lived
aim oft twenty years in the mo ft retired folitude. And
'therefore rtfuming all the courage I had, I took a flaming
jfirebrand, and in I ruftied again. I had not proceeded
above three fU-ps, when I was more affrighted than before ;
for,then } heard a very loud ftgh, like that of a human crea-
ture in the greatest agony, fucceeded with .a broken noijfe,
xefembling w'crds half expreffed, and then a broken figh
again. /Stepping back, Lord',! (thought I to myfelf) where
am I got, into what enchanted place have J plunged my-
felf, fuch as arc reportedio contain miferable captives, till
death puts an end to their fcrrows r And, indeed, in fuck
greav arruzement was I, that it ftruck me into a ccld fweat;
and. had my hat been on my head, I believe my hair would
have moved it off. Bu^ aga:n encouraging myfelf with the
hopes of God's prutectl n, I proceeded forward, and by the
•light of my firebrand, perceiv-d it o be a mondrous he-goat,
lying on the ground, gafping for life, and dying of mere old
age. At firll 1 ftirred htm, ihinking to drive nim cut, and
the poor ancient creature {trove to get upon his feet, but
was not able ; fo 1 e'en let him lie ili'.l to affright the favs-
ges. fhould they venture inio this cave. 1 now locked
round me and found the pbee but fmail and fhapelefs. At
the farther fide of it, 1 perceived a fort of an entrance, yet
fo low, it muft oblige me to creep upon my hsnds ard
knees to it ; fo, having no candle, I fufpended my enter-
prife till the next day, and then I came provided with two
large ones of my own mak;ng.
Having crept upon my hands and feet ihrrugh this ilrait,
I found the roof higher up, 1 think about twenty ftet. But
furely mortal never faw iuch a glorkus fight before ! The
roof and waiK of this cave rffLcled a hundred thoufand
• lights to me, fr m my two candles, as though they \v?re in-
dented with mining gold, precious Hones, or fparkiing
diamond?. And, indeed, it was the moll delightful cavi-y or
grotto of its kind that could be ch fired, though entirely-
dry. 7'he floor was dry and level, and had a kind of
gravel upon it; no naufeous venomous creatures to be feen
there, neither any damp or wet about it. J could iind no
fault but in the entrance, and I began to think that even
this might be very necefl'ary for my Gefer.ee, and therefore
refolvea to make it my molt principal magazine. 1 brought
hither two fowling-pieces, and three muikets, leaving only
five pieces at my callle, planted in the nature of canncn.
Of the barrel of gunpowder which I took up out of the fea,
I brought away about fixty pounds of good powder, wnich
was not damaged; a*d this, with a great quant.(y of Itad
for bullets, 1 removed frcm my caille to this retreat, now
iWtirud bcth by art and nature.
I fancied myfelf new iike one of the giants of old, who
were faid to live in caves and holes among the rocks, inac-
ceffible to any but themfelves ; or, at hail, a moft danger-,
ous attempt. And now I defpifed both the cunning "and
ilrength of the lavages, either to rind me out or to hur^me.
D
But I mufl not forget the old goat, which caufed my late
dreadful amazement. The poor creature gave up the
ghoft the day after my di'covety; and it being difficult to
drag him out, I dug his grave, and honourably entombed
him in the fame pice where he departed, win as much
ceremony as any Welch goat that has been interred about
the high mcuMain Penma-mawr.
I think I now was in the twen y third year of my reign,
and my thoughts much eatier than formerly, having contri-
ved federal prft y amufements and diversions to pafs away
the time in'a pleafant manner. By this time my pre ty Poll
bad learned to fpeak Engliih, and pronounce his words
very articulately ard plain; io that for many hours we ufed
to chat together after a familiar manner, and he lived with
me no lefs than twenty-fix years. My dog, which was
nineteen years old, iixteen of which he lived with me, died
fome time ago of mere old aqe. As for my cats, they mul-
tiplied fo fait, that I jwas forced to kill or drive them into
the woods, except two or three which became my particular
favoarites. Befides thefe, I continually kept two or three
houfehold kids about me, which I learned to feed oat of my
h3nd, and two more parrots which could talk indifferently,
and call Robin/on Crufoet but not fo excellently as the hrft,
as not taking that pains with them. I had alfo feveral fea-
fowls which I had wcunded and cut their wings ; and
growing tame, they ufed to breed among the low trees
about my caille walls, all when made my abode very
agreeable.
But what unforefeen events fuddenly deftroy the enjoy-
ment of this uncertain Hate of life, when we leaft expe£t
them ! It was n< w the month of December, in the fouthem
foliUce, and particular time of my harveil, which required
my attendance in the fields; when going out pretty early
one morning, before it was day-Hghr, there appeared to me
from the fea-thore, a flaming lighc, about t*o mites from
me at the eall end of the iiland, where I had cbferved fome
favages bad been before, rot on the other tide, but to my
great aiHidtion, it was on my tide the iiland.
Struck with a terrible forprife, and my ufaal apprehen-
fions, that the favages would perceive ray improvements, I
returned dire&ly to my cattle, pulled the ladder after me,
making all things look as wild and natural as I poflibly
could. Iti the next place, I put myfelf in a poilure of
defence, loaded my mufkets 2nd piftols, and committing
myfelf to God's protection, I refclved to defend myfelf till
my laft breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelligence,
I Jet my ladder up to the fide of che hill, where there was
a flat place, and then putting the ladder after me, afcended
to the top, where, laying myfelf on my belly, with my per-
fpeclive g'afs, I perceived no lefs than nine naked favages,
fitting round a fmall fire, eating, as I fuppofed, human flem,
with their two canoes hailed on ihore, waiting for the flood
to carry them cfr again. You ear.not eafily txpteCs the
confiernatioTi I was in at this light, efpecialiy feeing them
near ire j but when I perceived their coming muft be
always with the current of the ebb, 1 became more eafy in
my thoughts, being fully convinced that I might go abroad
with fecurity all the time of flood, if they were not before
landed. And, indeed, this proved juft as I imagined ; for
no fooner did they all take boat and paddle away, but the
tide made N. W. Before they went off, they danced,
making ridiculous poflures and geftures, for above an hour,
all ftark-naked : but whether men or women, or both, I
could not perceive. When 1 faw them gone, I took two
guns upon rcy lhoulders, and placing a couple of piftols in
my belt, with my great fword hanging by my fide, I went
to the hill, where at firft I made a difcovery of thefe can-
nibals, and then faw ihe;e had been three canoes more of
the favages on Ihore at that place, which with the relt were
making over to the main land.
But nothirg could be more horrid to me, when going to
the place of facriiice, the blood, the benes, and other mangled
parts of human bodies appeared m my fight; and fo fired
was I with indignation, that 1 was fully refclved to be re-
vej.ged on the firft that came there, though I loll my life
in the execution. It then appeared to me, that the vifits
which they make to this iflano are not very frequent, it be-
ing fifteen months before they came again: but fiitt
1 was very uneaf\, by reafen of the diural apprehenfi: ns
of their furpriling me unawares ; nor dared 1 offer to lire z
gun on that fice of the iflarid where they ufed to appear,
left, taking the alarm, the lavages might return with many
hundred cances, and then Gcd knows in what manner 1
fhould have made my end. Thus was I a year or more be-
foje 1 faw any of thefe devouring camiibais again*
- D 2
But to wave this, the following accident, which demands
attention, for a while eluded the force of -my thoughts in
jrevenging myfelf on thafe Heathen*.
On the I Oth of May (according to my wooden calendar)
the wind blew exceedingly hard, accompanied with abun-
dance of lightning and thunder all day, and Succeeded by a
very fiormy night. The feeming anger of the Heavens
made me ha.ve recourfe to my Bible, Whilft I was feri-
oufly pondering upon it, 1 was iuddenly alarmed with the
Sioife of a, gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the
ocean. Such an unufual furpr;fe made me (Urt up in a
minute, ,when, with my ladder, afcending the mountain as
jbefore, that very moment a flam, of fire prefaged the report
of another gun, which I prefently heard, and found it was
•from that pare of the fea where the current drove me away.
I could not but then think, that this mull be a (hip in dif-
trefs, and that ,thefe were the melancholy fignals ior a
fpeedy deliverance. Great, indeed, was my forrow upon
;lhis occafion; but my labours to aflift them muft have
proved altogether ^ain and fruitlefs. However, I brought
together all the dry wood that was at hand, and making a
pretty large pile, fet it on fire on the hill. I was certain
they plainly perceived it, by their .firing another gun as f.on
as it began to blaze, and after that feveral more from the
fame quarter. All night long I kept up my fire: and
/when.the air cleared up, I perceived fomething a great way
at fea direclly E. but could not diilinguifh what it was,
even with my glafs, by reafon the weather was fo very
ibggy out at fea. However, keeping my eyes directly fixed
upon it, and perceiving it did not ftir, 1 prefently concluded
fit muft be a ihip at archor, and fo very hafty 1 was to be
fatisfied, that taking the gun, I went to the S. E. part of the
,iiland, (o the fame rr.cks where I had been formerly drove
away by the current; in which time the weather being
perfectly cleared ,up, to my great forrow, I perceived the
wreck of a ihip call away upon thofe hidden rocks I found
,when I was out with my beat; and which, by making a
.kind of an eddy, were the rccafion of my prefervation.
Thus, what is one man's fafety is another's rui^: for un-
doubtedly this Ihip had been driven on them in the night,
the wind blowing ilrong at E. N. E. Had they perceived
.the iiland, as I,now gueiTcd -they had not, certainly, initead
of firing their guns for help, they would rather have ven-
fared m their boat, and faved themfelves that way. I \htn
thought, that perhaps they had done fo, upon feeing my
fi>ev and were caft away in the attempt; for I perceived
no boat in the /hip. But then I again imagined, tha-c, per-
haps, they had another veflel in company, which, upon
fignal, faved their lives and took the boat up: or that the
boat might be driven into the main ccean, where thefe poor
creatures might be in the moft miferab;e condition. But
as all thefe conjectures were very uncertain, I could do no
more than commiferate their diftref>, and thank God for
delivering me, in particular, when fo many periflied in the
raging ocean.
When I confidered ferioufly every thing concerning this
wreck, and could perceive no room to fuppofe any of them
faved, I cannot explain, by any poffihle force of words-, what .
longings my foul felt at this occafion, often breaking out
in this manner : " O that there had been but two or three,
" nay, even one perfon faved, that we might have lived
u together, converfed with, ani comforted one another V
and fo much were my defires moved, that when I repeated
thefe words, 6f Oh ! that there hnd been but one !" my
hands would clench together, and my fingers prefs the
palms of my hands fo clofe, that, had any foft thing been,
between, it would havecruihed it involuntarily, while my.
teeth would ftrike together, and fet againft each other fo
ftrong, that it required fome time for me to part them.
Till the laft year of my being on this ifland, I never
knew whether or not any had been faved out of this ihip.
I had the affliction, fome time after, to fee the corpfe of a
drowned boy come on fhore, at the end of the illand which
was next the fhipwreck ; there was nothing on him but a
feaman's waiftcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers,
and a blue linen ftiirt, but no particular mark to guefs what
nation he was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco-pip?, the latt of which I preferred much
more than I did the iirtK And now the calmnefs of (he
fea tempted me to venture out in my boat to this wreck,
not only to get fomething neceiTary out of the fhip, but
perhaps fome living creature might be on board, whofe
life I might preferve. This had fuch an influence upon
my mind, that immediately I went home, and prepared
every thing ncceflary for the voyage, carrying on board
D 3
my boat provifions of all forts, with a good quantity of rum*
jrefh water, and a compafs: fo putting ofF, I paddled the
canoe along the fhore, till I came at laft to the north-eaft
part of the ifland, from whence I was to launch into the
ocean; but here the currents ran fo violently, and appeared
fo terrible, that my heart began to fail roe; forefeeing that
if I was driven int& any of thefe currents, I might be car-
ried not only out of reach or fight of the ifland, but even
inevitably loft in the boiling furges of the ocean.
So oppreffed was I at thefe troubles, that I gave over
my enterprife, failing to a little creek on the fhore, where
ftepping out, I fet me down on a rifmg hill, very penfive
and thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide was turned,
and the flood came On, which made it impracticable for rne
to go out for (q many hours. To be more certain how the
fets of the rides or currents lay when the flood came in, I
afcended a higher pie^e of ground, which overlooked the
fea both ways ; and here I found that as the current of the
ebb fet out c'ofe by the fouth po,nl of (he ifUnd, fo the
cune.it of the flood fet in clofe by the fhore of the north
fide ; and all that I had to do, was to keep to the north of
the ifland in my return.
That night I repofed myfelfm my canoe, covered with
my watch-co3t, inftead of a blanket, the heavens being my
teller, I fet out with the firft of the tide full north, till I
felt the benefit of the current, which carried me at a great
rate eafiward, yet not with fuch impetuofity as before, as
to take from me all government of my canoe; fa that in
two hours time I came up to the wreck, which appeared
to me a moft melancholy fight. It feemed to be a Spanifh
vcffel by its building, ftuck fall between two recks ; her
iterrt and quarter beaten to pieces by the fea ; her main-
mail: and foremaft were brought off by the board, that is,
broken off fhort. As I approached near, I perceived a dog
on board, who, feeing me coming, yelped and cried, and
no fooner did I call him, but the poor creature jumped into
the fea, out of which 1 took him up, atmoft famifhed with
hunger and thirfl ; fo that when I gave him a cake of bread,
do ravenous wolf could devour it more greedily; and he
drank to that degree of frefh water, that he would have
burft himfelf, had I fuffered him.
The firft fight I met with in the fhip^ were two men
drowned in the cook-room or forecaitle, inelofed in one
another's arms: hence I very probably fuppofed, that when
the vefTel flruck in the florm, fo high and incefTamly did
the wafers break in and over her, that the men not being
able to bear it, were ilrangled by the conftant rufhing in of
the waves. There were feveral eafks of liquor, whether
wine C'T brandy I couid not be pofitive, which lay in the
lovNer hold, as were plainly perceptible by [he ebbing out
of the water, yet were too Urge for me to pretend to n»ed-
die with; likewife I perceived feveral chelts, which J
fuppofed to belong to the feamen, two of which I got into
my boat, without examining what was in them. Had the
item of the fiiip b?eo fixed, and the forepart broken off, I
ihoidd have made a very profperous voypge ; fince, by
what I after found in thefe two chefts, 1 cou'd not other-
wife conclude, but that the (hip mufl have abundance of
wraith on beaid; nay, if I mud guefs by the courfe fhe
fleered, fne muft have bten bound from Buenos Ayres,
cr the Rio de la Pbia, in the fouthern parts of America,
beyoad the Brazils, to the Havana)), in the gulph cf Mexico,
and fo peihaps to Spain. What became of the reft of the
failois, I could not certainly tell; and all her riches figni-
ittd nothing at th «t time to any body.
Searching fuiiher, I found a cafk, containing about
twenty gallons, full of liquor, which, with fome labour, I
got into mv boat; in her cabin were feveral mufkets, which
i let if main t'^ere, but took away with me a great powder-
horn, with about four pounds of powder in it. I took slfo
a fire-ihovc! and tongs, two brafs kett'es, a copper pot to
make chocolate^ and a gridiron, all which were extremely
oieceffary to me, efpeciah'y the fire ftiovel and tongs. And
fo with this cargo, accompanied with ny dog, I came
away, the tide ferving for that purpofe ; and the fame
evening, about an hour within night, I attained the illand,
alter the greateft toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night 1 repofed my wearied limbs in the boat, re-
folving the next mcrning to harbour what 1 had gotten in
my new-iound fubterraneous grotto; and not to carry
my cargo home to my ancient caftle. Having refrefhed
m)fel<, and got all my etKcls on fhore, I next proceeded
to examine the particulars ; and fo tapping the cafk, I
found the liquor to be a kind of rum, but not like what we
had at the Brazils, nor indeed near fo good. At the open-
D t
ing of the chert, feveral things appeared very ufeful to me,
for inftance, I found in one a very fine cafe of bottles, con-
taining the fineit and heft forts of cordial waters ; each
bottle held about three pints, curioufly tipt with filver, I
found alfo two pots full of the choiccft fweetmeats, and
two more which the water had utterly fpoiled. There
were likewife feveral good fhirts, exceedingly welcome to
me ; and about one dozen and a half of white Jinen handker-
chiefs and coloured neckcloths, the former uf which was
abfolutejy neceflary for wiping my face in a hot day ; and,
in the till, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about eleven
hundred in all, in one of which, decently wrapped up in a
piece of paper, were fix doubloons of gold, and fome fmall
bars and wedges of the Ame metal, which I believe might
weigh near a pound. In the other cheft, which I guefTed
to belong to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumftances
which attended it, I found only fome clothes of very little
value, except about two pounds of fine glazed powder, in
three flafks, kept, as I believe, for charging the fowling-
pieces on any occafion ; fo that, in the whole, 1 had no
great advantage by this voyage. The money was indeed
as mere dirt to me, ufelefs and unprofitable, all which I
would have freely parted wuh for two or three pair of Eng,
lifti fhoes and ftockings ; things that for many years I had
not worn, except lately thofe which I had taken off the feet
of thofe unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck,
yet not fo good as Engli(h fhoes, either for ea^e or fervice,
I alfo found in the feaman's cheft about fifty pieces of eight
in royals, bat no gold ; fo concluded that what I took
from the firft belonged to an officer, the latter appearing
to have a much inferior perfon for its owner. However,
as defpicable as the money feemed, I likewife lugged it to
my cave, laying it up fecurely as I did the reft of my
cargo; and after I had done all this, I returned back to
my boat, rowing and paddling her along till I came to my
old harbour, where I carefully laid her up, and fo made the
befl of my way to my caiUe. When I arrived there, every
thing feemed f&fa and quiet: fo that now my only bufinefs
was to repofe myfelf after my wonted manner, and take
care of my domeftk affairs. But though I might have lived
very eafy, as wanting nothing abfolutely needful,; yet
ftill I was more vigilant than ofuai upon sccount of the fa-
va^es, never going much abroad; or, if I did, it was to the
eaft part of the iilar.d, where I was well aflured the
favages never came, and where I might not be troubled to
carry that heavy load of weapons for my defence, as I was
obliged to do if I went the other way.
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in all which
time, contrary to my former refolutions, my head was fliled
with nothing but projecls and dcfigns, how I might efcape,
from this iiland; and fo much were hiy wandering thoughts
bent upon a rambling difpofition, that had I had the fame
boat that I went from Salee in^ I fhould have ventured
once-more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot, however, but conlider myfejf as one of the un-
happy perfons, who make themfelves wretched .by their
diffatis faction with the ftation which God has placed them
in; for, not to take a review of my primitive, condition, and
my father's excellent advice, the going contrary to which-
was, as I may fay, my original tin, the following miitakes
of the fame nature certainly had been the means of my pre-
fent unhappy Nation* Wrm buiinefs had I to leave n fet-
tled fortune and well flocked plautation, improving and
irxreafing, where, by this time, I might have been worth
a hundred thoufand m.-ndores, to turn fuper*cargo to
Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when time and patience would
fo much enlarge my ftock-at homr, as to be able to employ
thofc whofe more immediate, bufinrfs was to feten them;
home even to my door.
^ But as this is commonly the fate of young heads fo a fe-
riou^ reflection upon the foliy of it ordinarily attends the
exercife of future years, when the dear boughc experience
of time teaches.us repentance. Thus was it with me ; hoi
notwithstanding, the thought of my deliverance ran fo
ilrongly in my mind, that it feemed to check all thedi&ates
of reafon and philoibphy. And now to ufher in my kind
reader with greater-pleaCure to the remaining part uf my
relation, I flatter myfelf it will not be take-* amifs, to give
hsm an account of my firft conceptions of the manner of
efcjping, and upon what foundation I laid my iooiiflv-
fchemes.
Having retired to my caftl?, afier my late voyage to the
fhip> my frigate hid up and fkured, as ufual, aVd *ny con-
-dilnr. the iaim* as before, except being nch-r, thougiVj had
as little occafion.for riches as the indja-is of Peru°n-\j for
gold before the cruel Spaniards came amon^Yneoij one
D5
night in March, being the rainy feafon, In the four and
twentieth year of my folitude, I lay down to fleep, very
well in health, without diflejiper, pain, or uncommon un-
eafinefs either of body or mind; yet, notwithftanding> I
culd not compofe myfelf to fleep all the night long. Ail
this tedious while, it is impoilible to exprefs what innumer-
able thoughts came into my head. I traced quite over the
whole hiftory of my life in miniature, from my utmoft re-
membrance of things till I came to this ifland, and then
proceeded to examine every aclion and pafTage that bad
occurred fince I had taken poiTeflion of my kingdom. In
my reflections upon the latter, I was comparing the happy
poflure of my affairs in the beginning of my reign, to this
life of anxiety, fear, and concern, fince I had difcovered a
print of a foot in the fand ; that while I continued without
apprehenfions.I was incapable of feeling the dread and ter-
ror I now fuffered. How thankful rather ought 1 to
have been for the knowledge of my danger, fince the
greate/i happinefs one can be poffefled of is to have fufH-
cient time to prov'de againft it ? How ftupendcus is the
gco^rsefs of Providence, which fets fuch narrow bounds to
the fight and knowledge of human nature, that while men
walk in the midft of fo many dangers, they are kept ferene
and Calm, by having the events of things hid from their eyes,
and knowing nothing of thofe many dangers thatJurrcund
them, till perhaps they are di flipped a«d vanim away.
When 1 came mere particularly to confioer of the real
danger I had for fo many years efcaped ; how 1 had walked
about in the grcateft fecurity and tranquillity, at a time,
perhaps, when even nothing but the brow of a hill, a great
tree, or the common approach of nighf, had interpofed be-
tween me and the deftrudive han^s of the cannibals, who
would devour me with as good an appecite, as I would a
pigeon or cudew ; furely all thi<, 1 fay, could not but
inane me fmcerely thankful to my great Preferver, whofe
fingular protection I acknowledge with the grealeft humi-
lity, and wi'hrut which 1 muil inevitably have fallen into
the cruel hands cf thofe devourers.
Having thus difcafied my thoughts in the ckarefl manner,
according to my we k under/lar.ding, 1 next proceeded to
confidcr the wretch-d nature of thofe deftroying favages,
by teeming, though wkh great reverence, to inquire, why
God (hould give up any o? his creatures to fuch inhumanity,
even to brutality itfelf, to devour its own kind ? bat as this
was rather matter of abftrufe {peculation and as my miier-
able fituation made me think this of mine the raoft uncom-
fortable fituation in the world, I then began rather to inquire
what part of the world thefs wreches lived in; how far oil*
the coaft was from whence they came; why they ventured
over fo far from home; what kind of boats conveyed them
hither; and why I could not order myfelfand my bufinefs
fo, that I might be as- able to attain their country, as they
were to come to my kingdom ?
But then, thought J, how- fhall Pmanage mvfrlf when I
come- hither? what will berome of me if I fall into the
hrands of the favages f orhow (hall I efcape horn them, if
they make an attempt upon me i and fuppcrfirg I mould not
fair into their power, what mail Ido for provifions, or which
way {hail I bend my courfe rThefe counter-thoughts threw^
me into the grea tell horor and confuiion imaginable; bat
then J ft ill looked upon my prefeiu condition^) be ths moft
miferable that poftible could be ; and that ^ thing could be
worfe, except death. For (thought 1) could I but attain
the more of the main, 1 might perhaps meet with fome re-
lief, or coaft it along, as 1 did with my boy Xurr, on die
African fhore, till I came to fome inhabited country, where
I might meet with fome relief, cr fall in with fome Cbriftian
fhip that mi?ht take me in ;;and if I failed, why then I could
but meet with death, which would put an end to all my mife-
ries. Thefe thoughts, I muft confefs, were the fruit cf a
diftempered mind, an impatient temper, made defperaie,as it
were, by long continuance of the troubles and difappoim-
meots I "bad met with in the wreck, where I .hoped to. have
found fome living perfons to fpeak to, by wham I might
have known in what place 1 was, ar«d of the probable-means*
of my deliverance- Thus, while my thoughts-were Jigjta^ed-,
my refignafon to the will of Haven were entirely fufpend'
ed, fo that 1 had t.o power to fix my mind to any thing, but -
to the projeel of a voyage to the main land. And, indeed-,
ib much was 1 inflamed upon this account, that it fee my
blood in o a ferment, and my pu fe beat high, as though I
had been in a fever ; till nature being, as it weie, fatigued
and exhaufted with the.thoughts of it,- made me fubmit my-
felf to a iilent repofe.*
In fuch a fituation, it is very firanje, that I did -not:
dream of'what 1 was fo intent uponj but, inftead of it/my
B-6
mind roved on a quite different thing, altogether foreign.
I dreamed, that as I was ifTumg from my caflle one morn-
ing, as cuflomary, when I perceived upon the fhore two
canoes, and eleven favages coming to land, who had brought
with them another Indian, whom they defigned to make a
facrifice of, in order to devour; but jnft as they were going
to give the fatal blow, methought the poor defigned viclim
jumped away^and r/an directly into my little thick grove
before my fortification, to abfcond from his enemies, when
perceiving that the others did not foliow: him that way, I
appeared to him; that he humbly kneeled down before
me, feemed to pray for my afliflance; upon whicli I
mowed him my ladder, made him afcend, carried him to
my cave, and he became my fervant; and when I had
gotten this man, I faid to myfelf, now furely I may have
fame hopes to attain the main land; for this fellow will
ferve me as a pilot, tell me what to do, and where I mufl
go for provifions, what places to fhun, what to venture to,
and what to efcape. But when I awaked, and found all
thefe inexpreffible impreflions of joy entirely vanifhed, I
fell into the greateft dejection of fpHt imaginable.
Yet this dream brought me to reflect, that one fure way
of efcapirg was to get a favage ; that after I had ventured
my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws of his devourers,
the natural fenfe he might have of fuch a preservation,
might infpire him with a lading gratitude and molt fincere
affection. But then this objection reafonably mterpofed:
how can I effect this, thought I, without I attack a wi.ole
company, of them, and kill them all ? why ("hould I proceed
on fuch a defperate attemnt, which my icruples before had
fuggefted to be unlawful? ard indeed my heart trembled
at the thoughts of fo much blood, though it were a r&eans
to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true, I might reafona>Iy
enough fuppofe thefe men to be real enemies to my life,
men who would devour me, was it in their power; fo that
it was felf-prefervation in the higheft degree to free myielf,
by attacking them in my own defence, as lawfully as if
they were actually afTaulting me ; though all thefe things,
T fay, feemed to me to be of the greatelt weight, yet, as I
jufl faid before, the dreadful thoughts of Jhedding human
blood, ftruck fuch a terror to m> foul, t/iat it was a long
time before I could reconcile myfeif to it
But how far will ths ardency of defire prompt us on ? For
notwith(landing the many difputes and perplexities I had
with myfelf, I at length refolved, right or wrong, to get one
of thefe favages into my hands, coil what it would, or even
though I {hould lcfe my life in the attempt. Infpi red with
this firm refolution, I fet ail my wits at work, to find out
what methods I mould take to anfwer my defign: this, in-
deed, was fo difficult a tafk, that I could not pitch upon any
probable means to execute it: I therefore refolved conti-
nually to be in a vigilant pofture, to perceive when the fa-
vages came on fhore, and to leave the reft to the event, let
the opportunities offer as they would.
Such was my fixed refolutions ; and accordingly I fet
myfelf upon the fcout, as often as I could, till fuch times as I
was heartily tired of ir. I waited for above a year and a
half, the greateft part of which I went out to the weft and,
fouth-wetl corner of (he iiland,. almoil every day, to look
for canoes, but none appeared. This was a very great dif-
couragement; yet though I was very much concerned, the
edge of my defign was as keen as ever, and the longer it
feemed to be delayed, the more eager was I for v * *n a
word, I never before was fo careful to (hun the loathing
tight of thefe favages, as I was now eager to be with them;
and I thought myfelf fufficiently able to manage one, ;wo,
or three favage?, if I had them, fo as to make them my en-
tire fiaves, to do whaifoever I mould direct them, and pre-
vent their being able at any time to do me a mifchief. Many
times did I ufe to pleafe myfelf with thefe th^ugnts, *ith
long and ardent expectations; but nothing prefenting, all
my deep projected fchemes and numerous fancies vanithed
away, as though while I retained iuch thoughts, the decrees of
Providence were fuchthatno favages were to come near me.
About a year and a half alter, when I was ferioufl; m>
iing of fundry other ways how^ 1 fhould attain my ead, one
morning early, I was very much furprifed by feeing t•.;; fefs
than five canoes all on fhore together, on my fide '.he ifland,
and the favages that belonged to them alt lauded and out
of my fight. Such a number of them difconcerted all my
meafures; for, feeing fo many boats, each of whi-h wou d
contain fix, and fometimes more, I could not tell whai to
think of it, or how to order my meafures, i attach t • envy
or thirty men fingle-handed; upon *>hich, much difpirited
and perplexed, 1 hy ftill in my caftle ; which, hu^vever, I
put in a proper pofture for an attack j and having formerly
provided all that was neceffary, was fooa ready to enter
upon an engagement, fhould they attempt. Having waited
for fome lime* my impatient temper would let rre bear it no
longer; I fet my guns at the foot of my ladder, and, as
ufual, afcended up to the top cf the hill at twoftages, Hand-
ing, however, in fuch a manner, that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill, To that they could not edily perceive
me; and here, by the affiftance of my perfpecHve ghfs, I
obferved no lefs than thirty in number around afire, feafling
upon what meat they had dreiled ; how they cooked it, or
what it was, I could not then perfectly te!l; but they were
all dancing ard capering about the flames, ufing many
frightful and barbarous gefUtres.
But while, wiih a curious eye, I was beholding tbefe.
wretches, my fpirits funk within me, when I perceived
them drag two miferable creatures from the boats* to acT:<
afrelh the dreadful tragedy, a*! I fuppcftd they had done
before. It was not longf before one of them fell upon the.
grourd, knocked down,as I fuppofe, with a club or wooden
fword,for that was their manner ; while two or three others-
went immediately to work, cutting him open for their cook-
ery, and then fell to devour him as they had d)ne the for-
mer, while the lail unhappy captive was left by himfelf,.
till fuch time as they were ready for him. The poor crea-
ture looked round him with a wifhful ey<r, trembling at the
thoughts of death ; yet, feeing himfelf a little at liberty, na-
ture, that very moment, as it were, infpired him with hopes
of life : He Parted av/ay from them,, and ran, with incre-
dible fwiftnefs, alcng the fands, directly to that part of the
coafl where my ancient and venerable cattle iiood.
You may well imagine I was dreadfully affrighted upon
this occaficn, when, as I thought, they purfued him in a
who!e body, all running towards my palace. And now,,
indeed, 1 expected that part of my dream was going to
be fulfilled, and that he would certai ly fL to my grove
for protection; but, for the red of my dream, I Cuuld de-r
pend nothing on it, that the favages would purfu^ him
thither, and find him there. However, my fpnits.begin*
ning to recover, 1 Hill kept upon mygunrd; and J now
plainly perceived there were but three men out of the num^
ber that purfued him. 1 was infini ely pleaied with what
fwiftnefs the poor creature ran from his purfuers, gaining fo
much ground upon them, that I plainly perceived could he
thus hold cut for half an hour, there w^s not the leall doubt-
but he would fave hie life from the power of his enemies.-
Between them and my cattle there was a creek, that
very fame which I failed into with all my effects from the
wre:k of the (hip, on the fteep banks of which I very
much feared the poor victim would be taken, if he could
not fwim for his efcape: But (bon was I out of pain for
him, when I perceived he made nothing of ic, though at
full tide, but with an intrepid courage, fpurred on by the
fenfe of danger, he plunged into the flood, fwimming over
in about thirty itrokes, and then landing, ran with the
fame incredible ftrength and f*iftnefs as before. When
the three purfuers came to the creek, one of them, who I
perceived could not fwim, happily for his part, returned
to his company, while the others, with equal courage, but
much lefs fwiftnefs, attained the other fide, as though they
were refolved never to give over ihe purfuit. And now
or never I thought was the time for me to procure me a
fervant, companion, or afliftaot; and that I was decreed
by Providence to be the inftrument to fave this poor crea-
ture's life. I immediately defcended my two ladders with
the greatefl expedition; I took up my two guns, which, as I
faid before, were at the bottom of them, and getting up
again with the fame hatte towards the hill, I made nearer
the Tea. In a word, taking a mart cut down the hill, I
interpofed between the purfuers and purfued; hallooing
aloud to the latter, who, venturing to look back, was, no
doubt, as much terrified at me as I at them. 1 beckoned
to him with my hanr^ to return back; in the mean time
advancing towards the purfuers, and ruming on the fore-
molt, I knocked him down with the ftock of my piece,
and laid him flat on the ground. I was very unwilling to
fire, leall the reft (hould hear, though, at a diftance, I quef-
tioned whether they could or no; and being out of fight of
the fmoke, they could not eafily have known what to make
of it. The other favage feeing his fellow fall, flopped as
if he had b?en amazed ; when, advancing towards him, I
could perceive him take his bow from Ins back, and, fix-
ing an airow to it, was preparing lo (hoot at me, and, with-
out difpute, might have lodged the arrow in my breaft ;
bin, in this abiblutely neceiTary cale of felf-prefervation, I
immedia ely fired at him, and fhot him dead, jjfl as his
hand was going to draw the fatal. 11 ring. AH this while,
the favage who had fled before, ftood ftill, and had the fa-
li&faclioR to fee his enemies killed, as he thought, who de«
ftgned to take away his life; fo affrighted was he with the
fire and noife of my piece, that he Hood, as it were, like
Lot's wife, fixed and immovable, without either fenfe or
motion. This obliged me to halloo to him again, making-
the plained figns I could to him to draw nearer. I per-
ceived he underftood thofe tokens by his approaching to
me a little way, when, as if afraid I fhould kill him too,
he flopped, a^ain* Several times did he advance, and as
often Hop in this manner, till coming more 10 my view, I
perceived him trembling as if he was to undergo the fame
fate. Upon which I looked upon him with a fmiling
countenance, and ftill beckoning to him, at length he
came clofe to me, and kneeled down, killing the ground,
laid his head upon it, and taking me by the foot, fet it
upon his head; and this, as I underftood afterwards, was
a token of fwearing to be my flave for ever. I took him
up, and, making much of him, encouraged him in the beft
manner I could. But my work was not yet finifhed;
for I perceived the favage whom I had knocked down, was
not killed, but ftunned with the blow, and began to come
to himfelf. Upon which I pointed to my new feivant, and
(bowed him that his enemy was not yet expired; he fpoke
fome words to me, but which I could no* understand; yet
being the fir ft found of a man's voice I had heard for above
twency-five years, they were very pleafing to me. But
there was no time for reflection wtv, th*; mounded favage
recovering himfelf fo far as to (it upon the ground, wnich
made my poor prifoner as much afraid as before ; to put
him out of fear, I prefented my • ther gun at the man, with
an intent to (hoot him; but my favage, for fo I mult now
call him, prevented my firing, by making a motion to me
to lend him my iword, which hung naked in my belt by my
(ide. No fooner did I grant his requeft, but away he runs
to hisenemy, and atone blow cut ofFois head a* dexceroufly
as the mod accomplished executioner in Germany could have
done; for, it teems, thefe creatures make ufe of wooden
fwords made of hard wood, which will bearedgi4 enou;h to
cut off heads and arms atone blow.- Whec this vabrous
exploit was done, he comes to me laugring, as a token of
triumph, delivered me my (word Hga:n, wuh abundance of
furprifing geftures, laying it along with the bleeding and
ghallly head of the Indian, at my feet.
Thegreatefl aftonifhment that my new fervant conceived,
was the manner of killing the lavage at fuch a diftance,
withouc a bow and arrow; and fuch was his longing defire
to know it, that he firft pointed to the dead carcafe, and
then made figns to me to grant him leave to go to him.
Upon which I bade him go, and, as well as I could, made
him fenfible I granted his requeft. But when he came
there, how wonderfully was he flruck with amazement t
Firii he turned him on one fide, then on another, wonder-
ing he could perceive no quantity of blood, he bleediog
inwardly; and after fufficiently admiringthe wound the
bullets had made in his bread, he took up his bow and ar-
rows, and came back again: upon which I turned to go
away, making my figns to him to follow, left the reft mif-
fing their companions, might come in purfuit of them, and
this I found he underftood very well; by his making me
underftand that his delign was to bury them, that they might
not be feen if it happened, and which by figns again I
made him fenfible I very much approved of. Immediately
he fell to work, and never was grave-digger more dexterous
in the world than he was: for in an inftant, as I might fay,
he fcraped a large hole in the fand with his hands, fuffieient
to bury the firlt in ; 'there he dragged him, and without any
ceremony he covered him over; in like manner he ferved
the other; fo that I am fure no undertaker could be more
expert in his bufinefs ; for all this was done iu iefs than a
quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and initead
of carrying him directly to my caftle at firft, 1 conveyed him
to my cave on the farther part of the iflind ; and fo my
dream was now fulfilled in that particular, that my grove
ihould prove an afylum or fanctuary to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirfty, undoubtedly mud
this poor creature be, fupported chiefly by the vivacity of
fpirit, and uncommon tranfports of jo/ thac his deliverance
occafioned. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raifins
to eat, and water to drink, on which he (ed very cheerfully,
to his exceeding refrefhment. I then made him a conveni-
ent bid with a parcel of rice lira*, and a blanket upon it,
(a bed who I ufed myfelf fometimes,) and then pointing
to it, made figns for him to lie down to fl?ep, upon whicii
the poor creature went to take a welcome repoie.
Indeed he was a very comely, handfome young fellow, ex*
treiiiely well-made, with ftraight long limbs, not too large,
but tall and well-fhaped, and, as near as I could reckon,
abjut tweutv-fix years of age. His countenance had no-
thing in it fierce or furly, but rather a fort of majeflry in his
face; and yet, efp?cialiy when he fmiled, he had all the
fweetnefs and foftnefs of an European. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many of the bracks are, but long and
black, with the moft-bsautiful yet carelefs trefles fpreiding
over his (boulders. He had a very high and large forehead,,
with a greaG vivacity and fparklin^ ftvarpnsfs in his eyes.
His fkm was not fo tawny as the Virginian Brazilians, or
other Americans, but rather of a bright aun oYwt cobur*
that had fomethiiig agreeable in it, though not very eafy to>
give a defcri prion of. His face was round and plump, with
a faiall nofe, very different from the flam^fs of the negroes,
a pretty fmall mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, vary well fet,
a^id white as the driven fnow. In a word, fuch handfome
features, and exact fymnvtry in every part, made me cen-
fider, that I had faved the life of an Indian prince, ni lefa
graceful and acccmplimed than the great Oroanoko, whafe
memorable behaviour, and unhappy contingences of life,
have charmed the world, both to admiration of hi* perfon,
and companion to his fufFerings.
But let him be either prince or pcafant, all my happinefs
centered in thi£, that [ had now got. a good fervant or com-
panion, to whom, as he deferved, I was refcJved to prove a
kind matter, and a lading friend. He had not, I think, flept
above an hour, when he awaked again, and while J was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs fron the cave towards
me in my inclofure, and laying himOlf down on the
ground, in the lowell proftra:'ion, made all the antic geltures
imaginable, to exprefs his thankfulnefs to me, for being his
deliverer. I confef?, though the manner of his behaviour
feemed to bs ludicrous enough to occafion laughter, yet I
was very much moved at his affection, fo that my heart
melted within me,, fearing he migh* die away in excefs of
joy, like reprieved malefactors: efpecially as I was incapable
either ta let him blood, or adminifrer phytic. It were
to be wiftied that Ghridians would take example by this
Heathen, to have a lading remembrance of the benefits and
deliverances they have received, by the kind mediation
and powerful interpofition of their benefactors and deliver-
ers: and it would be likewife happy for mankind, w?re
there no occafion to blame many, who3 initead ofthankfuljy
acknowledging favours and benefits, rather abufe and con-
demn thofe who have been the inftruments to fave them
from deflrudtion.
But leaving thefe reflections, T returned to the object
that occafioned them; for my man, to conclude the lad
ceremony of obedience, laid down his head again on the
ground, clofe to my foot, and fet my oth^r foot upon his
bead, as he had done before, making all the figns of fubjec-
tion, fervitude, and fubmiflion imaginable, and le; me un-
derftand he would ferve me as long as his life endured. As
1 underftood him in many things, 1 made him fenfible I was
very well pleafed with him; and, in a little time, I began
to (peak to him, and learn him to talk to me again. In the
firll place I made him understand his name was to be Fri-
d\y, becaufe it was upon that day I laved his life ; then I
taught him to fay M-ilkr, which I made him fenfible was
to be my name. I Hkewife taught him to fay Yes and No,
and ;o know what thev mean*". 1 gave himfome milk in aa
earthen poc, maki.ig him view mc while I drank it before
h"m, and foaked my bread in it; I gave him a cake of bread,
and C3u(ed him to foak it likewife, to which he readily con-
fented, making figns of the greateft fatisfaciion imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but no fooner did
the morning light appear, when [ ordered him ro arife, and
come along with me, with certain tokens that I would give
him fome clothes like mine, at which he feemed very glad,
being (tark naked, without the leaft covering whatever.—
As we paused by the place where the two men had been
interred, my man pointed directly to their graves, fhowing
me the marks that he had made to find them again, giving
me to underftand, by figns, that we ftnuld dig them up,
and devour them. At this I appeared extremely difpleafed,
cxprefledmy utmoft abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the
apprehenfion of it, becko Ning with my hand to come aways
which he did with the greatett reverence and fubmiifion.
After this I conducted him to the top of the hill, to view if
the reft of the favages were yet remaining there; but when
I looked through my perfpective glafs, I could fee no ap-
pearance of them, nor of their canoes; fo that it was very
evident they never minded their deceafed companions whom
we had flain; which if they had, they would furely have
fearched for, or left one boat behind for them to follow,
after they returned from t.heir purfuit.
Curiofity, and adelire of fatisfaction, animating me with
courage to fee this fcene of barbarity, I took my man Fri-
day with me, putting a fword into his hand, with the bow
and arrows at his back, which I perceived he could ufe
very dextroufly, caufing him to carry one gun for me, and
I two for my (elf; and thus equipped againft all attacks,
away we marched directly to the place of their bloody en-
tertainment. But when I came there. I was ftruck with
the utmoft horror at fo dreadful a fpectaclc, whilfl Friday
was noway concerned about it, being no doubt in his, turn
one of thefe devourers. Here lay feveral human bones, there
feveral pieces of mangled flerfi, ^alf eaten, mangled and
fcorched; whilit ftreams of blood ran promifcuoufly as
waters from a fountain. As 1 was mufing on this dreadful
fight, Friday took all the pains he could, by particular
figns, to make me underftand, that they had brought over
four prifoners to feaft upon, three of whom they had ea*en
up, and that he was-the fourth, pointing to himfelf; that
there having been a bloody battle between them and his
great king, in the juft defence of whom he was taken pri-
foner, with many others* all of thefe were carried off to
different places to be devoured by their conquerors; and
that it was his misfortune to be brought thither by thefe
wretches for the fame purpofe.
After I was made fenfible of thefe things, I caofed Fri*
day to gather thofe horrid remains, and by them together
upon a heap, which 1 ordered to be fee on fire, and burn
them to afhes; My man, however, (till retained the nature
of a canmba1, having a hankering ftomach after fome of the
fiefh j but fuch an extreme abhorrence did I exprefs at the
leaf* appearance of it, that he duril not but conceal it; for
I made him very fenfible, that if he offered any fuch thing*
I would certainly moot him.
This being done, I carried my man with me to mycaftle,
and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which Ihad taken,
out of the poor gunner's chell before mentioned, and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well: in the
next place I made him a jerkin of goat's (kin, fuch as my
fkill was able to manage, and indeed I thought myfelf then
a tolerable good tailor. I gave him alfo a cap which I
made of a hare's fkin, very convenient and falhiohable.—«•
Thus being clothqd tolerably well, my man was no lefs
proud of his habit, than I was at feeing him in it. Indeed he
went very awkwardly at firH:, the drawers being too heavy
on his thigh?, not ufed to bear any weighc, and the 11-eves
of the wai»Voat galled his fhouldrrs and the inude of his
arms; but by a little eafing where he complained they hurt
him, and by uling fiimfelf to them, as length he took to
them very well.
My next concern was, where I mould lodge him; and
that I might do well by him* and ye: be perfectly eafy my-
felf, I ereded a tent for him in the vacant p*ace between
my two fortifications, in the infide of the lai't, and the out-
fide of the firft ; and, as there was an entrance or door in-
to my cave, I made a formal framed door-cafe, and a door
to open on the infide; I barred it up in the night time, la-
king in my ladders too, fo that, was my man to prove treach-
erous, there could be no way to come at me in the infide
of my innermcfl wall, without making fo much noife in
getting over, that it muft needs waken me; for my fir it
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, fpread-
ing over my tent, and leading up to the fide of the moun-
tain, which was again laid crofs with fmaller Hicks inftead
of laths, and thatched over a great thicknefs with the rice
firaw, which was as ftrong as reeds: and at the hole of the
place, left on purpofe to go in and out by the ladder, had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted
.on" the outfide, would not have opened at all, but have
fallen down, and made a great nojfe: and as to my wea-
pons, every night I took them all to my bedtide.
But there was no occafi.n for this precaution ; for furely
•never rnafter had a more iincere, faithful, and loving ier-
vant than Friday proved to me. Without pafhon, fallen*
nefs, or defign, perfectly obliging and engaging, his affec-
tions were as much tied to me, as thofe of a child to its
parents; and I might venture to fay, he would have facri-
ficed his life for the faving mine, upon any occafion what-
soever. And, indeed, the many teftimonies he gave me of
this, fufficiently convinced me tnatl had no occafion xo ufe
thefe precautions. And here I could not but reflect with
great wonder, that, however it hath pleafed the Almighty
in his providence, and in the government of the creation,
to take from fo great a part of the world of his creatures,
the nobleft ufes to which their faculties, and the powers of
their fouls are acapted; yet that he Has beitowed upon
them the fame reafon, affections, fentiments of kindnefs
and obligation, paffi ns of refentmer t, fincerity, fidelity,
ard all the capacities of doing and receiving good that he
has given us; and that when he is gracioufly pleafed k>
offer them occaficns of exertirg thefe, they are as ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the proper ufes for
which they were bellowed, than we often are. Thefe
thoughts would make me melancholy, efpecially when I
corfidfred ^how mean a ufe we make of all thefe, even
though we have thefe powers enlightened by the Holy
Spirit of God, ard by the knowledge of this world, as an
addition to our understanding; and why it has pleafed the
heavenly wifdom to conceal the like faving knowledge
from fo many millions of fouls, who would certainly make
a much belter ufe of it than generally mankind do at this
time. Thefe reflexions would fometimes lead me fo far
as to inveigh the fovereigntyof Providence, and, as it were,
arraign the juftice of fuch an arbitrary difpefuion of things,
that fhould obfeure that light from fome, and reveal it to
others, and yet expect a like duty from all. Butlclofcd
it up, checking my thoughts with this conclufion ; firh\
That we were ignorant of that right and law by which
thofe mould betondemned ; but as the Almighty was ne-
reflarily, and by the nature of his cflence, infinitely juft
and holy; fo it could not be cthervvife, but that if thefe
creatures were all deiHned to abfence fronvhimfelf, it was
on account of finning againft that light, which, as the
Scripture fays, was a law to themfelves, and by fuch a rule
ts their confeiences would acknowledge to be juft, though
the firft foundation was rot difcovered to us. And, fe-
condly, That ftill as we were the clay in the hand cf the
potter, no vfffel could thus fay to him, « Why hail thou
"fafhiored me after this manner."
I had not been above two or three days returned to my
caftle, but my chief defign was, how 1 fhould bring Friday
off from this horrid way of feeding; and to take from him
that inhuman relifh he by raiure had been accuftomed to,
I thought it my duty to lee him tafle other fkih, which
might the rather tempt him to the fame abhorrence 1 fo
often exprtfled againil their accurfed way of living. Upon
which, one morning I tcok him out with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid out of the flock and bring it home, and
drefa it. As I was going, 1 perceived a fhe-goat lying
down in the (hade, and two young kids fitting by her.—
Immediately I catched hold of my man Friday, and bidding
him (land (till, and not fiir, I prefented my piece, and (hoc
one of the kids. My poor fervant, who at a diftance per-
ceived me kill his sdverfary, ard yet did not know by w-hat
mean*, or how it was done, flood trembling and furprifed,
and looked fo amazed, that I thought he *ould have funk
into the earth He did not fee the kid I aimed ar, or be-
held J had killed it, but ripped up his waiftcoat to fee if he
was not wourded, thinking my refolution was to kill him;
for coming to me, h? fell on his knees, earneftly pronoun-
cing many things which I did not underftand the meaning
of; which at length I perceived was, that I would not
take away his life.
Indeed f was much concerned to fee him in that con-
dition, where nature is upon the fevereft trial, when the
immediate hand of death is ready to put for ever a period
to this mortal life; and, indeed, fo much companion had I
to this creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained from
tears, But, however, as another fort of countenance was
necrffary, and to convince him that I would do him no
harm, I took him fmiling by the hand, then laughing at
him, and pointing to the kid which I had (lain, made figns
to him to fefch it, which accordingly he did. No lefs
curious was he in viewing how the creature was killed, than
he had been before in beholding the Indian ; which, while
he was admiring at, I charged my gun again, and prefently
perceived a great fowl, like a hawk, perching upon a tree
within (hot : and, therefore,"to let Friday underftand what
J was going to do, I called him to me again, pointing at the
fowl, which I found to be a parrot. I made him under-
stand that I would (hoot and kill that bird ; accordingly I
iired, and bade him look, when immediately he faw the
parrot fall do*n. Again he flood like one amazed, not-
withstanding all 1 had iaid to him : and the more confound-
ed he was, becaufe he did not perceive me put any thing
into my gun. Uudoubtedly a thing fo utterly ftrange,
carrying death alcng with it, far or near, either to man or
bealt, mull certainly create the greateft aftonifhment to one
who never had heard fuch a thing in his whole life; and
really his amazement continued fo long, that had I allowed
it he would have proftrated himfelf before me and my gun,
with the greateft worlhip and adoration. As for the gun
in particular, be wru!d not fo much as touch it for feveral
days after, but would come and communicate his thoughts
to it, and talk to it, as if the fenfeiefs piece had underwood
and ar.fwered him ; all this I cruld peiceive him do, when
he thought my back was turned, the chief intent of which
was, to defire it noL to kill him, as I afterwards came to
underfland.
I never flrove to pi event hh admiration, nor hinder him
fivm thofe comical gellures he ufeJ on fuch occafions; but
when his aftonifhmerl was a iittle over, I made tokens to
him to run and fetch the parrot that I had (hot; ;which
accordingly he did, Haying fometime longer than ufual, by
reafon the bird not being quite dead, had fluttered fome
way further from the place where he fell. Jn the mean
time, whi!e he was looking for her, I took the advantage of
charging my gun again, fo that I might be ready for any
other mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred at that
time. So I brought horre the kid, and the fame evening
took off the (kin and divided the carcafe as well as J could.
Part of ihe flefh 1 Hewed and boiled in a pot I had for this
purpofe. And then fpreading my table, I fat down, giv-
ing my man feme of it to eat, who was wonderfully ple^fed,
and feemed to like it very well: but what was the moil
furpriiing to him was to fee me eat fait with it: upon
which he made me underfland, that the fait was very lad
for me; when p.tr.ting a little ir.to his mouth he feemed to
naufeale in fuch a rranner, as to fpit and fplutter at it,
and then wafhed his mouth with frefh water : but to fhow
him how contrary his opinion was to mire, I put fome
meat into my mouth without fair, and feigned to fpit and
fplutter as much for the want of it, as he had done at it ;
yet all this proved of no fignification to Friday ; and it was
, a long while before he cculd endure fait in his meat or bro.h,
and even then but a fmall quantity.
Thus having fed him fufficiently with boiled meat and
broth at that tijme, the next day I was refolved to feail him
with a roafled piece cf the kid. And having no fp;t to
fallen it, nor jack to turn it, 1 made ufe of that commen
artifice which many of the common people of England have,
that is, to fet two poles upon each fide cf the fire, and
one crofs on the top, hangirg the meat tl ereon with a
firing, and fo turuirg rcund continually, roafl it, in the
' -fame manner ss we read bloody tyran s of eld crually roall-
ed the holy maryr*;. Th:$ practice caufed great admira-
tion in my man Friday l:eing qu te another way than that
to which the favag^s #ere accuitomed. But when he came
to tafte th~ fwe?tnefs and cendi.rnefs of the Rt(h, be ex-
preiled his entire fatisfaclion above a thoufand different
ways. And as I could not but understand his meaning, you
may be fure I was as wordei fully pleafed, efpeoally when
he made it alfo very plain to me, that he would never,
while he lived, eat man's flefh more.
It was now high time F fhould fet my fervant to work;
fo next day I fet him to beat out fome corn, and fife it in
the fame manner as I had done before. And really the Fel-
low was very quick and handy in the execution of any thing
I ordered him to go abut. I made himunderftand that it
was to make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him fee
me make it In Jhort, he did every thing as 1 ordered hjm*
ar.d in a little time as well as I could perform it myfelfi
But new conlLering that 1 had two mouths to feed *n~
fread of or^e, it was necefEiry that I rnuft provide more-
ground for my harverr, an^ plant a larger quantity of Co en'
than I comm nly uled tj do; upon which I marked out-a
larger piece of land, fercng it in, in the fame manner as
I had done before ; in the execution of which I muft give
Friday this got d wcri, that no man could work more:liardy,
r with betier will than he did ; and when 1 made him fer.-
iiblc that it was for bread to ferve him as wellas nTe, he
hen very pafliona'ely made roe understand, that he thought
I had much m re libour on his account, than I had for my-
elf; and that no pains ur diligence fliould be wanting in
him, if I would but direct him in ihoie works wherein he
night prcceeJ.
I mult certainly own, that this was the mod pleasant year
I ever h3d in the ifland j for alter lomeiime, Friday began
o talk pre ty well, and underltood the names of thofe things
which 1 was wont to call for, and ttie places where 1 ufed
o fend him. So that my lorg tilent tongue, when had been
jfelefs *o many years, e*crpt in an exclamatory manner,
either for deliverance or bleifings, now began to be occu-
pied in teaching, and talking to ni) man Friday -3 for indeed
1 had fuch a lingular fatisfadion in the fellow himielf, fo
"nnocent did his limple ar.d ur,feigped hon Jty appear more
•iRd more to me every day, that I really began entirely to
ove him j and for his part, I believe there was no loveloft,
E
and, tha^his nature had beqn more charmed .by his.exceed^
in,g kind,ne(s, and ,hi$ affe&ioris more pla,ced upon me, than
an,y- ojtfc^f o,hJ4v6l, whatfpever among his own cquntrymen.
I pace, had a^great m;ind..tq try if he had any hankering- in-,
clinationto hUowfi; cpuntry-a^ainj andby this time haying
learned tfye.EngJifh fo, well, tba,l,he(cpuld give me tolerable. '.
apfwers.tp any .;queiVion., which. I demanded; I afked him.
'whether th^t nation to.-which he .belonged^ ever conquered
in battle ? The qucftion made Friday to fmye, and to which
he anfw^red, (tYes., yes, w£ al(ways fight the better;" as
much as,tot{*3y tthey always got the, belter in fight, Upon
-wjiich we proceeded on the following, difcourfe ; You fay:,
fajd I, that you always fight the belter3 why, then, Friday;,
how, came- you to.be, takeo.prifoner ?
Friciay. Bujt.for-,all that,, my nation.beat much,
Majler. How; ;fay;iypu,. beat f if yoqr nation beat.them,
Jiow came you: to ^e.takenr prisoner ?
Etidayy. They .more, many mans than my nation in, the
place. wh.e^..me was; they take o-e, t\vo, three, and me:
my, na1,ipn.much.pver beat them in the yi nder place *here
me nOiWa^s, there my nations man bea tone, two, three great
tqqfa^nd.
Majier. Then why did npt.your nation-recover you. from
the har-d% of your enemies ?
Fr-iday^ They run one, two, cr three, and me : I'hey make;
alj go ,ra tfre canoe % my nati,an have, no canoe ihat time.
Majier. * Pis, very we)],, Friday.; but what does your
nation,do .with theprifoners they take ? Do, they carry them
'away, and er>t them, as Ihefe have ftane ?
Friday.'YzSj yes> my natio ;..eats mans.too, eat up all.
Mafler. To what place do they carry them to bc.devoured ?
.Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
leafier. Do th.ey bring them hither -?
Fiic/ay. Yes, come over hither.,-xome over other plac^.
Mafter, And have yni been with them, here, Friday?
Frdday, Yes, me been here (pvinth^^to the nortb-iueji tf
tfae ijlaiid, behiK the fedt, where they ufed to land).
Thus .having.gotie:-! what acxoun.t 1 could from my man,
I plainIy;um]erib>od, that, 1*e had been as bad as any-of* the..
-relLof thp cannibals, huving been formerly among the fa-
vages.wha ufec\ Jt-o come on fhore on the farthefl part of^the
iflgnd,. upon, the fame .bloody occajion as he; was brought
hither, for; .an&fomeaime afterd carried; himtOithaxplac^
wherfhe pointed; and no fooner did he come there, but
lie prefently knew the ground, fignifying to me that he was,'
once there whea they ate up twenty men, two women, and.
a young child : but as he could rot explain the number in
Englilh, he did it by fo many flonej in a row, makiog a
fign for me to count them.
This pa/Tage I had the rather mentioned, becaufe it led
to things more important and ufeful for me to know; for
after I had the fatislactory difcoarfe with hiir^ my next
queftion was, how far it was from the ifland to the fhcre,
and -whether the canors were not often loft in the ccean ?
to which he anfwered there was no danger; that no canoes
were ever IjI\ ; but, that after a Jitrie way out to the fea„'
there was a ftrong current, and a wind always one way in
the afte nnon. This 1 tnought at firft to b« no mere than
the fets of the tide, of going cut or coming in ; but 1 after-
wards underftocd it was occasioned by the grea: draught
and reflux cf the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulfo* which 1 imagined my kingdom Jay; and that the
Jand which J perceived to the W. or N. W. mu-ft be the
great ifland Trinidad, on the north of the river. A thru-
land qreftiens (if thar wou'd fa'isfy me) did I alk Friday,
about the na:urc of the country, the fea, the-cosfts, the in-
habitants, .and u hal nations were neareft them ; to which,
qur-ftions the poor fe-low declared all he knew, with the
greateJl opmuefs, and utmoil fincemy. When I demand--
ed of him the pariicu'ar names cf t e various nations of his
fcrt of people, he cou'd only arfwer me in general, that
they were called Cariblxe Hence it was 1 confidered that'
thefe mud he the Caribbees, fo muc^ taken notice of by,
our maps> to be m that part cf America, which reaches
frcm the mouth cf the rver Orooncko to Guiana, and fo>
on to St, Martha. Then Friday proceeded to tell me, that
up a g«eat way beyend the n:oon, as much as to fay*> be*-;
yond the fetting. of the moon^ which mull be_W. from their
country, tl ere dwelt uhite-bearded men, fuch as^ 1 was,
pointing to my whifke.s, and that they kill much mans. I
tyas not ignorant with what barbarit) the Spaniards treated-
thefe creatures; fo that 1 prefently concluded it muft be
them, whofe cruelties had fpread throughout America, to
be remembered even to fucceeding generations.
Well, you may be fure, this knowledge, which the im-
perfecl knowledge cf my man had led me to, was very
E 2
-comfortable to me, and made me To curious as to afk him
how I might depart from this ifland, and get amongfl thofe
white men ? He told me, « Yes, yes, I might go in two
canoes." In two canoes, thought I, what dues my man
mean ?furely he means one for himfelf, and another for me;
and if rot, hew mufl two canoes ho'd me without b&ing
joined, or one part of my body being put in one, and ano-
ther in another? And indeed it was a long time before I
underftood his meaning, which was, that it mull be a large
boat as big as t* o canoe*, ab'e to bear with the waves, and
not fo liable to be overwhelmed as a fmall one mult be.
I believe there is ro ftate of life but what may be happy,
if people would but endeavour for their p.irt 'o make it fo.
•He is not the happ'efi man that has the mod nches ; but he
that is cortent with what he has. Before I hsd my fer*
-vart, 1 thought myfelf miferable t;ll I had him ; and now that
J had enjoyed ihe happy benefits of him, 1 ftiH comp'a;ned,
and b-g^ed a deliverance from a place of -retirement, eafe,
and ple-.ly, where Providence had fufficienlly bleffed me.
}a a word, from this time f erteaained fome hop! s, that
one time or other I migh' find an opportunity to make my
efcape from this iiland, and that tins poor favage m'ght be
a great furtherance thereto.
All the time fince my man became fo intelligent as to un-
derftand and fpeak to me, I fpared no pains nor diligence
to inftruft him, according to my poor Ihare of knowledge,
i-n the principles of religior, and the adoration that he ought
to pay to the true God. One time, as 1 very well remem-
ber, I afked him who -tfnade him? At rift the ^innocent
creature did not underftmd what I meant, but rather thought
I afked him who was his father? Upon which \ took ano-
ther way to make him fenfible, by demarding-from him an
anfwer to thio quehV.on. Friday, laid 1, who is it that made
the fea, this ground whereon we walk, and all thefe hills
and woods which we behold ? and here, indeed, I did not
mifs my intention; for he told me it was Old Benamuckee
(the God whom I fuppofe thefe fav-iges adored) who lived
a great way beyond ad. But as to his attributes, poor Fri-
day was ?n utter ftranger. He could defcribe nothing of
this great rperion ; and all that he could fay wa$, that he
was very old, int-ch older than the fea and land, the moon,
or the liars. Friday, faid I again, if this great and old per-
ion has made all things in the world., how comes it to pa(>,
thai-all things, as you in particular, do not adore and wor-
ship him? Upon ibis, looking very g'ave, with a perfe&
Sweet io k of innocence, he replied, *' Matter, all things fajr
O to him,'1 by which it may b« reasonably fuppofed he
meant adoration?. And where, Said I, do the people of your
country go when they die ? He anSwered to Benamuckee.
What, and thofe people that are eaten up, do they go there ?
" Bcnamuckee," faid be, •* Jove 'em dearly ; me pray to
*f Benamuckee in de canoe, and B-enamuckct would love me
" vvhen they eat me all up."
Such difcourfes as thefe had I with my man, and Such
made me fenfiblc, that the true God is worfhiped, though
under imperfrcl fimilitudes ; and that the talfe adoration
which the Heathens give to their imaginary Deity> is as great
an argument of the divine efTence, as the moil learned
Atheifts (falfely fo called) can bring againft it; for God
will be gionti.d in his works, let their denomination b%
what it will; and I cannot be of that opinion which fomc
conceive, thU God mould decree men to be damned for
want of a right notion of faith, in a place where the wifdonx
of the Almighty has not permitted it to be preached ; and
therefore cannot but conclude, that, fince obedience is the
befl Sacrifice, thefe poor creatures, acting by that light and
-knowledge which they are poflVfTed of, may, undoubtedly*
obtain a happy falvation, though not that enjoyment with
Chrirt, as his fai- ts, confeffors, and martyrs muft enjoy.
Bat laying thefe determinations afide, more fit for divines
than me to difcufs, I began to inilrud my Servant in the
Saving knowledge of the true Deity, in which the directions
of God's Holy Spirit aflifted me. I lifted up my hands to
Heaven, and pointing thereto, told him, that the great
Maker of Heaven and Earth lived there; thai, as his i* finite
power fafhioned this world out of a confufeci chaos, and
made it in that beautiful frame which we behold, So he
governs and preferves it by his unbounded knowledge,
Sovereign greatnefs, and peculiar providence ; that he was
omnipotent, could do every thing for us, give every thing to
as, and take every thing away from us; that he was a re-
warder and punifher of go^d and evil actions; that th^re was
nothing but what he knew, no thoughts fo fecret but what he
could bring to light: and thus by degrees I opened his eyes,
and defcribed to him the manner of the creation of the
world, the fiiimion of paradife, the tranfgreffion of our
fir ft' parents, the wrckednefs of God's peculiar people, and
the uriiverlal iins and abomnaticns of the whole earth.—
When thefe things .were implanted in his nrnd, I to'd him,
that as God's ju'rice was eqjal to his mercy, he refnlved to
deftroy this world, till his bon Jefus Orilt interpufed in our
behalf; and, to procure our recemption, obtained leave of
his heavenly Father to come down from Heaven into the
world, where he took homan na;,ure upon him, inllru&ed up
in qur way to eternil life, and d;ed as a facrifice fvr oiir fins;
that he was now afce-idei into Heaven, mediating for our
pardon, delivering our pkii.o s and obtaining all ihofe good
benefits which we a*£k in his name, by humble and hearty
pra)ers, ell which were heard at the throne of Heaven.—
As very frequently I ufed'.to inculcate thingsinto his mind
Friday crre day told me, xhat if our great God could bear
us beyond the fun, he mult Jurely be a greater *Gpd than
,their "Benamuikee, who 'lived bat, a little w^y pIF, and.yet
could not h?ar them till they afcended the great mountains,
where he dwelt, to {peak to him. What, faid I,. Friday,
did you go thither,to fpeak to him too? He arifwered,
^No, they never went that were young men, none but*old
*' men,-called their Qo<wakakeety* meaning ihe lndian^priell?t
*« who went lo fay O, (fo he called faying their prayers.,.}
"and they returned bacjt, and.-tcjd them whit Betiamucfag
11 faid.,> From hence,.! could not but.ob/trvc how happy
we XUhTiillans are, ..why have God's immediate revelatioq
for -our certain guicle; and .thai pur faith is neither mifled,
nor £>ur reafon imjmfed upon, by ,any fet :oTv m,en, ftich as
there Indian impoftors.
But, to .clear up this palpable cheat to my. man Friday, I
told him, that the pretence of their ancient rrjen going.up to
tlie mountain to fay O to their God .Benamuqkeet wasran im-
pollure, and that their bringing back an anfwer was. all a,
• fham, if.n-jt wor'fe ; for,that, if there was.any fqch thing
fpoken to them, furely it muft proceed from an infernal
fpirir. And here i thought it neceftary to enter intoa long
difecurfe with him, which 1 did after this manner:
Friday, faid I, you mult know, that before this world
was made, there was an Almighty power exilling, by whofe
power all things were made, and whofe Majelty lhall have
no end. To, be glorified and adored by beings of a heaven-
ly nature, lie created angels and archangels, that is, glorified
'OF FtOBltf5*ON CRUSOK. 103^
fprrns refeiribling hirofelf» to encotnpafs his throne, eter-
irally finging forth his praife in his mo ft heavenly founds
and divine harmony.. And, among this heavenly choir,
Irbcifer bore a great fwav, as being then one of (he peculiar
favourites of thefexeleilial abodes ^ but he, contrary to that
duty he awed his heavenly Sovereign, with unbounded
ingratitude 10 his Divine Creator, not only envied him that
adoration vVhieh *as his due, but thought to ufurp that
Throne, which he had neither power to keep, nor title to pre-
tend'tb. He raifeda diifenlion and civil war in Heaven,
-arid had a number o? angels^o take his part. Unbounded
folly 1 itupbr.dotfsi pride \ to hope for victory, and alp ire
fsbove5hfs powerf-ol Creator I The Deity, notfearfulof inch.
an enemy, yet juftly provoked at his-rebellion, commit
-ftoncd his archangel Michael to 4«ad forth tfceJ heavenly holr,
and give him battle j 'the advantage df which wa^ quickly
rperaeived by-Satan's being overthrown, and 'the prirxe of
the air, for fo the devil h called, with allhh* fallen an pete,
'driven headlbng imo a difrhat place which is called Hell,
The recital of' this truth made my manigive thef.greatefr.
'attention, "and she exp relied a great-falisfacUon by hisgef-
turfes, "that God h^ad fen* the devil into the-fieep hoie.-^-
^rfdifihen I^defired him io:give;great heed to what Tlisd
ibrtfher to fyy.
No fooner, proceeded J, was God freed {tarn,f$ttf<r-t1te
Htfaveh cl«*ar of trhis-apch-traitor, *-but the Father/peaks to
<the Son ?ahd3 Holy Spiri-v who belonged to His efferfce,"and
icvere eq^al to1 Ir.m in power andtglory, Coyne let urMakiWan,
*faid he, '-in *Ur*<mn>iM$gey afterour Gixmtikaujsy Gen. i. 20»
*to 4iaVe dominion'over tlye crearturesW the world whicti w?e
-JiaVe created. >Ahd thefe he intended*<fhouId g.^rify hito
-in Heaven, BeCOrdi&jg to their obedience in this Irate ^f
^rofoadln on earth, which was, as ir\v*re, lobe the fchool
•to train them up for ihefeheavenly*matnfrom>. Now, SaCan
ibeitfg hrm*felf< foiled, yet that Ood had'rtot taken the power
from hinvas pririce'of the air, which power Heaven de'&gn-
~ed he'fhould retain, whereby his creatures m$ght!be tried-
Sn revenge for the disgrace he had received, he tempts
Adam's wife, Eve, to talte of thetreeof knowledge of gooH
-and 'evil, Vhidh God h£d forbidden. He appear* to her in
the (ha^pe of "a ferpent, then a molt beautiful creature, tfifti
'tells-'her fhat^t was ho better-than an fmpofmon which Go^i
*&ad-put tipo'n :her ^d'h^rftofbswd, ?not to eat of that Mr
E4
-fruit wh'ch he had created ; that t:>e tafte thereof woufd
• make thec^ immortal like God h'mf-lf; and cnfequenlfy
. as great and pc werfu! as he. Upon which ihe not only eat
thereof"herfelt, b»:t made her hafb^nd eat aJfo, which brought
them both under the heavenly difpleafure.
Here Friday ex pr.1 fifed a preat concern ; t{ Ah, poor mam!"
cried he, " naughty womans t naughty devil | make God not
u love de mans nake mans like devil himfelf."
Friday, faid I, God frill loved mankind; and th'ugh the
devil tempted human nature fb far, he would not fuffer him
i to have an abfolute power over th?m. I have told you be*
* fore,of his tender love to his ptople, till they, like Lucifer,
difobeyed his c rnmands and rebelled againft him ; and
even then, how Jefjs Chrift, his only Sen, came to fave
iinners. But ft;!l every man that lives in the world is un-
der temptation and trial1! The Dev:l,has yet a power, as
'. prince of ihe air, to fuggeft evil cogitations in our minds,
and prompt us on to wicked actions, that he might glory in
our deftrucrion. Whatever evil th ughts we have, proceed
from him; fo that Go J, in this our diflrfs, expects we
fnould apply curfelves to him by fervent prayer for fpeedy
redrefs. He is not like Benamuckee, to let none come near
him but Oowakiiket, but Jsffers the people, as well as priefts,
to offer ti.emfeives ac his f~et, thereby to be delivered irom
the power and temptation of the devil.
But though at fir ft my man Friday exprtffed fome con-
cern, at the wi.ckednefi of Lucu'tr, I four.d it not fa eafy to
imprint the right notions of him in his mind, as it was about
the divine effence. of God; for therejiasure aflifted me in
,. all raj, arguments,, to (how to him plainly, the neceflity of a
Great Firft. Caufe, an overruling, governing Power ; of a
fecret directing Providence, and of the equ ty aisd reafon-
ablenefs of paying adoration to our Creator ; whereas there
appeared notniiig of al. this in the notion of an evil fpirit,
of his iii ft beginning, his nature, and, above all, of his in-
clination to evil actions, and his power to tempt us to the
like. And indeed this unlearned Indian, by the mere forc.e
of nature, puzzled me with one particular queflton, more
than ever I could have expected.
l"had, it feoms, one day, been talking to him of the om-
nipotent power of God, and his infinite abhorrence of fin,
infomuch tkat the Scriptures ilyied him a confumingfire to
all the workers of iniquity ; and that it was in his power*
whenever he pleafed, to deftroy all the world in a moment,
the greater part of whicn are continually offending him.
When, with a ferious atten ion, he had Hftened-a great
while to what I faid, after I had been telling him how the
devil was God's enemv in the hearts of men, and ufed all
his malice and {kill to defeat the good defigns of Providence,
and deflroy the kirgdnm of Chrift in the world, a^d fo
forth : " Wy well, Mailer," faid Friday, "you fa* God is
if fo drone? fo great, is he not much ftr^ng, much mightier
u than the naughty devil !" To be fure, Friday, faid I, God
is more wife and flr^nger than the ferpent: he is above the
devil, which makes us pray to him, that he would tread down
Satan unJer h s fee!, enable us to refift the violent tempta-
tions, and quench his iiery darts. " Why then," anfwered
Friday quickly, " if God, as vou fav, has much ftrong, much
*' might as the devil, why God no kill devil, make no more
*' tempt, no more do wicked."
You mav be certain [ was fl.rang.ely furprifed at the quef-
t'on of my msn's: and, though an old man, I was but a
young doctor, and confequentlv very ill qualified for a ca-
fttifl, or a refolver of intricate doubts of religion ; and as it
required fome time for me to ftudy for an anfwer, I pre«
tended not to hear him, nnr to a(k him what h? faid ; but,
fo earneft was he for an anfwer, a* not to forget hb queflion,
which he repeated in the very fame broken words as above.
When I had recovered myfelf a litJe ; Friday, faid 1, God
will at laft puniih h/m fevereiy, being referved for judg-
ment, and is to be caft into the bottomlefs pit, to remain m
fire evcrlafting. But all this did not fatisfy Friday; for
returning upon me, he repeated my words, tc reserve at
«' last, me no understand ; but, why not kill devil now,
" not kill devil great, great while ago :" Friday, faid I, you
may as well afk me why God does not kill you and me,
when, by our wicked actions, we fo much offended his divine
Majefty ? He gives us time to repent of our fins, that there-
by we may obtain pardon. At thefe words oblain pardon,
Friday mufed a great while; and, at laft, looking me ftead-
fallly "in the face, " Well, well," faid he, " that's very well;
" fo you, 1, devil, all wicked mans, all prcferve, repent,
u God pardon all."
Indeed, here I was run down to the laft extremity, when
it became very evident to me, how mere narural notions
E5
106
LIFE AN-D ADVENTURES
will.guide reafpnable creatures to 0ie knowledge of a Deity,
2nd to,the homage due to the Supreme Being of God; but
however, nothing but divine revelation can form the know-
ledge of Jefus^ Chrift, and of a-redemption purchafed Fof
us, of the mediator of the new covenant, and of an inter-
cefihr at the footttool of Gop^ throne; and, therefore, ih'e
Gpfpel of our Lord and Saviour jefas Chrift j that is, t>>e
word and.fpirit of God, promifed for the guide and fancti-
fier of his people, are.his moft neceffary milructers of the
fouls of men, in the faving knowledge of the Almighty, and
^he inear.s co-attain eternal happir efs.
And now I found it neceffary to put an end to this dif-
ccurfe between ray man and me; for which pmpofe I rofe
up nattily, and made as if I had fome occafion to go out,
fending Friday for foraething that was a good way off. I
then fell on my knees, and befeeched God that he would
infp*re me fofajras to guide this poor fayage in the know-
ledge pf Chriir,, to anfwer his queftions more clearly, that
hjs oqnfcienpe might .be convinced, his eves opened, and
^hh foul faved. When he returned again, I entered into a
very long difccu/fe v\ith him, upon the fubject of the world's
redemption by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of repent-
ance preached fro-n Heavtn, together with an holy faith
of out b!efled Redeemer J- fus Chntt; and ihen 1 proceeded
t*p explain to him, according to my weak capacity, the
reafon why cur Saviour tock not on h'm the nature of angels,
hut rather the feed of Abraham: andho^ the fallen angels
had no benefit by that redemption ; and, laflly, that he came
.only ,to the loll fheep of the ho-ufe cf Ifrael, ar.d the like.—
Goo! knows i hud more fincerity than knowledge in all the
ways I took for the poor Indian's induction; and I mutt
acknowledge what 1 believe every body that acts upon the
farre principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths open
before him, 1 informed and initructed myfelf in many tuingt
tht>t either I did oot know, or had not perfectly confidered
before; fo that, however, this poor creature might be im-
proved by my inflructiora, certain it is, that I m>felf had
great reafon to be thankful to Providence for fending him
to me. His company allayed my grief, a-nd made my har
bitation comfortable; and when 1 reflected that the folitery
life to which 1 had been fo long confined, had made me to
look further towards Heaven, by making me theinftrument,
under Providence, to fave the life* and, for cught I know.
fhefou! of this poo'riavage, by brbgirtgtorn1 to theknow-
ledge of Jefu's ChriKl, it (faufed a fccret joy to.fpYead through
ever'y pait of my foul; arid I fre'qfifehtfy rejoiced, that ever '
I w£s brought to this place, which I once thought the kbft
&lfeiiable part of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I aftefWartfs continue
while 1 abode on tVe Ittirfd, and for -three years; did my
ftiah and I live in the gTcateft enjoyment of happnref;. In-
deed, I believe (He favage was as good a Chriftianlas I';
and 1 hope we were equally penitent; and fuch penitents
as were comforted and reflored by God's Ho)y-Spirit: for
riow we had the word tif the Lord, to m-ftruct us in the right
way, as much a's if we had been on ihe fingJim more.
By the conflant application I made to the ScriptuVes, sfi
I read them to my man 'Friday, I earneftl'y ehdeavmre'd to
make him uinderffarid every pare of it, as mucih as lay in'my
piwer. Me a'tfo, on the ether hand, By his Very feVimfe -
queftk ns and inquiries, made me a nYuch better pToficierit
in Scripture knowledge, than 1 mould 'have Beifen by mf
own private reading aba ll'udy. t rntfft hot o&it pother
thing, proceeding from the/experience I had fn Wy rehire'-
rne*nt: It 'was that infinite and irexpettble bl%mh%, ttM
knowledge of God through Jefiis Chrift, whxVwavfo plain
and cafy to-be iinderflbbd, as rmmediktely to direcVme to
carry on the great work of fincere fe'penteVnce for- my ^firis,
and laying htjldoT a 'Saviour forSeiernal life, to-a practrcai •'
£l4ted r>formaticm, and ohea1 ieV.ce ib all Go a's inSftutioTis,
without the afeftance *>f a reverend a'r/d orthodox-divine j .
and elpeciarty by ahis. lame infraction, fa/to enlighten this -
fkVrge creature, ss to make hihi fa good a CW'iilikh, as'very
few cculd exceed him, And there wak only this great thing
wanting, thai I haH rio authority t6 adminiftvV the HbJy *Sa-»
tfament, that heavenly -participation hf Chrift*s hhif &nS
blood ; yet, however, we relied ourfelves content, that Gocl
would accept oux'defifes, and.according to ©u'fr faith, havV
niercyon us.-
But what we wanted one way,-wals made up iii another,
4hd that was univerfal peace in«cur little chiifcL We hail
fib difputes and wranglwigs abcui the nature-and equality oj?
trie hcTy, bfeifed, and undivided Trinity; no niccies in
doctrine, or fchemes of church government; » o four or
jnorofe diftehtefs to irhpofe more fublimated notiors upon
tis.j jib Jfej&ant iophiftlts "to conibuhd us with unintelligible
my Series: but initead of all this, we enjoyed the mod cer-
tain guide to Heaven; that is, the word of God ; befides
which/ we had the comfortable views of his Spirit leading
us to the truth, and making us both willing and obedirnt to
the inftruclion of his word. As the knowledge and prac-
tice of this are the principal means of falvation, I cannot
fee what it avails any Chriftian church, or man in the world,
to amufe himfelf with fpeculations and opinions, except it
be to difplay their particular vanity and affectation.
You may well fuppofe, that, by the frequent difcourfe we
had together, my mm and 1 became molt intimately ac-
quainted, and that there was but very lit.le that I o uld fay
but what Friday understood ; and, indeed he fpokc very
fluently, though it was but br ken Englifti. I now took a
particular pleafure in relating all my adventure^, cfpec.ally
thofc that occured fince my being caft on tUs ifland. I
made him underitand that wor,derrul myftery, as he cou-
ceived, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to
flioot.' I alfo prtfented to him a knife, which pJcafcd him
exceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog hanging there-
to, like tnofe in which we wear bankers in England ; and,
jnftead of a hanger to put in the frevg, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good, but even a better weapon upon
many occasions. In a word, my man thus accoutred, look-
ed upon himfelf as great as Don Quixote, when that cele-
brated champion went to combat the windmill.
I next pave him a very particular defcription of the ter-
ritories of Europe, and in a particular manner or Old Eng-
land, the place of my nativity. 1 laid before him the man-
ier of our worfhipine God, ouf behaviour cne to another,
and how we trade in (hips to every part of the univerfe.—
1 then told him my misfortunes in being (hipwrccked, (how-
ine, as near as J cooH, the place where the fhip lay, which
had been gone long before ; but 1 bought him to the rums
of my boat, which before my whole ftrength could not move,
but now was almoU rotten and fallen to pieces. I obfcrved
mv man Friday to view this b>at with an uncommon eti-
riofity; which, when he had done, be ftord pondering a
grea/while, and faid nothing. At l,ft, ftid I, Friday, what
make, you ponder fo much ? He rephed, " O matter, me
fee \\h boat cowe to place at my nation. ' ,
It was fome time, indeed, before J underflood what my
<^a meant; but exam'ning ftiiciljr into it, 1 plainly found,
that fueh another boat refembling mine, had come upon the
country where hedvve.lt; that is to fay, by his farther explana-
tion, that the boat was driven there through ftrefs of weather.
Jt then came into my mind that fame European fhfp having:
been cad away,, the poor diflrefled creatures were forced
to have recourfe to the boat to fave their lives ; and being
all, as I thought, drowned, I never concerned rnyfelf to aflc
any thing concerning them, but my only inauiry was about
the boat, and what defcription mv man could give of it.
Indeed, Friday anfwered my demands very well, making
every thing very plain to my understanding ; but beyond
meafure was I fntisfied, when he t- Id me with ^reat warmth
and ardour, " O matter, we fave white mans from drown;"
upon which I immediately afked him, if there were any
white man?, as he called them, ;n the boat? ;* Yes, yes,"
faid he, " the boat full, very full of whi:e mans." How-
many, Friday? faid I. Hereupon he numbered his fi- gers,
and counted fevenleen. And when I afked him what be-
came of them all, and whether they lived or not ? he replied
"Yes, mailer, they all live, they be live among my nation."
This information put frefh thoughts into my head, that thefe
rouft be thofe very men who before I concluded had been
fwallnved up in the ocean, after they had left the mip, that
had rtfuck upon the rocks of my kingdom, and after esca-
ping the fury of" the deep, landed upm the wild more, and
committed themf Ives to the fury of ihe devouring Indians.
The maimer of their cruelties to one another, which con-
fequently, as I thought, muft be acled with great barbarity
to ftrangers, created in me a great anxiety, and made me
flill more curious to afk Friday concerning them. He told
me, he was fure they ilill lived there, having retided among
them above four years, and that the favages gave them vic-
tuals to live upon; But pray, Fridav, fiid I, whencr pro-
ceeded all this good nature and generofity ? Ho-v c^me it
to pafs that they did not kill and eat them, to pleafe their
devouring appetites, and occadon fo fplendid an entertain-
ment among the-n ? '* No. no," faid Friday, (t tney not kill
'cm, they make brothers with "emj" by which I underft)od
there wasJa truce between them. And then I had a more
favourable opinion of the Indians, upon Friday uttering
thefe words : u My nation, t'other nation no eat mans, but
when mans make war fight;" as though he had faip1, that
neither thofe of his kingdom, nor any other nations that he
knew of, ever are their-fellow 'creatures, frut fuch as'ttelr
law of arms allowed to be deroofed ; that is thofe mifera-
arjle captives, "whdfe mufbrttin'e it Ihculd ijeto be made pri-
loners of war*
Some corifiderahle time after, upon a very ptea'fant day,
m mbftferefre weather, my man and I 'Mod upon the top
df a Kill, oh the eahV fide 6f the ifiahb\, whence T had once
before beheld the continent of America. I could:-not tell
immediately what was the matter; tor fuddenly Friday fell
a jumping arid "dancing as if'he bsd been mad; and upon
ift'y 'demanding the reafbn of his behaviour, u O jtiy," ftiid
he," Q glad ! t'htre fee my country, there my nation, there
*c live White maris gether/*v And indeed fuch a rapturous
fehfe of pleafure appeared in his countenance, that his e'ycsY
had an uncommon fparkling and brightness, and fuch a
ftrange eager iiefsj as if he had a longing defiife to be in his
country again. This made me not fo "well fatisSed with
my man Friday as before;..for by th'is'appearance, I made
no difpute, but that if he could get'back (hither again, he
would hot only be unmindful of what rVligjbh'i had taught
him, but 1 kewife of the great obJJgatibn lie owdd nie for
Bis wonderful deliverance j riay, that'he Would not only in-
form his cciirtrymen cf me, but ac&frmjbany hundred's of them
to ray kingdom, and make rr e a mifeVable.ficr'iiibe, like
thbfe unhappy wreteh'es takes in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to .have'thbfe'cruel and-
linjuil fufpiciofts, and mtift'freely own '1 wrohg'eil the pfcor
cVeature very much, whoVas of & cjciite contrary temper.
And had he had'that difcerning acUtehefs ivlii^h many En- «
ropeahs have, lie wbuld certainly, halve perceived my cold-
nefs and indifeerence, abd alfo have been very'much, con-
cerned up'on that account: as I vvas how-mcrecir'cumfpecT:,.
I had much leifetied my klnoVeffs and familiarity with Kirn,
a'nd while this jealoufy continued, 1 ufed tha't artful way
(now too mach in fafhibn, the occafioii of iirif'e and diflea- .
fion) of pumping him daily, thereby lodifcbver Whether he/
was deceitful in his thoughts and inclinations; 'bu Veer tain ly
he had nothing iri him but what was cbnfiite-nt With the behV
principles, bob as a religiou's Christian and a grateful Friend $
and, indeed, 1 found every thing he faid was ingettubus-and-.
irnKc'eat, that 1 had no room for>fufpicion> and, in fpite of
all uneafinefs, he not only made me entirely his own again^
but alfo caufecl me much to Ik'nient that 1 evtfr ^6acxiY&&
one ill thought of him.
As we were walking up the fame bill another day, when
the weather was To hazy at Tea, that I could not perceive
the continent, Friday, faid, I, don't you wifli yourfelf to T>e
in your own country, yOur nation, among )our old friend*
and acquaintances ?" " yes,1' faith he, " me much O.glad to
** be at my own cation." And what would you do there,
Friday ? Would you turn wild again, eat man's ffefh, and
be as favage as you were formerly r <f No, no," (anfwered
he, full of concern, and Shaking his head) *« Friday now tell
*r ihem to Jive^cod, tell them pray God, tell them to eat
*f corn, bread, catrc, flefh, milk, no eat man again." But
Furely, replied 1, if you fhould offer to do all this, they will
kill you ; and to manifeft their contempt of fuch inllruclian
eat you up when they have done. He tht'n put on a grave>
yet innocent'and fmocth countenat.ee, faying, r< No, they
u no kill me, they willing bve learn;" ih*t is, that they
would be very willing to learn ; adding withal, *•* that they
** had learned much of the bearded mans that came in the
"boat." Will you, faid I, go back agair, Friday? Fie
fmiled at that, and told me, that he could not fwim fo far*
But, faid I, I will make a canoe f^F you. " Yes, mailer/*
faid he, '* me go if you go ; mc no go, if yo-a flay." I go*
Friday! why would you have them to eat rrve up, and de-
vour your kind matter i i% No, no/' faid he, "me make
" them not eat mailer, and me make them much love youj7*
that is, he would tell them how 1 had {lain his enemies, and
thereby faved his life, for which reafon he would make them,
love me; and then he related to me, as well as he was able>
how exceedingly kind taofe of his nation were to the white,
or bearded men, as he called them, who, in their great cala-
mity, were driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, I had ftrong inclinations to
venture over, and ufe my utmoft efforts, if pofiible, to join
thefe white beardtd men, who undoubtedly were Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, ic mud certainly be a better
and fafer way to elcape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an ifland forty miles off the ihore, and
without any afliftance. Some days after, Friday and I be-
ing at work, as ufual, at the fame time diverting ourfelves
with various difcourfes, I told him 1 had a boat whica I
would bellow upon him, whenever lie pleafed to return t<?
his own nation; and to convince him of tne truth of what £
faid, I took him with me to the o;her fide of the ifland, where
my frigate lay, and then taking it from under the water, (for
I always k- pt it funk for fear of a difcovery,) we went both
into it to fee hnw it would manage fuch on expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in rowing
than my faithful fervant, making the boat go as faft again as
I could. Well now, Friday, faid I, (hall we now go to
your fo much admired nation ? But inltead of meeting with
that cheerfuln'-fs I expected, he looked very dull, and me-
lancholy at my faying fo ; which indeed at firft furp'ifed me,
till he made me fi-niible that his concern was about
the boat beirg too fmall ti go fo fur a voyage* Upon
which I let him underftand I had a much bigger; and, ac-
cordingly, the next day went to the place where the firft
boat lay, which I had mide, when all the flrenglh I had, or
art I could ufe, failed me in my attempt to get it into the
water: but now is having lain in the fun two and twenty
years, and no care being taken of it all that while, it became
in a mann-r ro ten. My man told me, that fuch a boa£
would do yery well for the purpofe, fuffic:ent to carry
enougli <vitth, drink, bread, for that was hu manner of talking.
In lhorc, my mind being ftrongly fixed upon my defigns of
going over with him to the Continent, I very plainly told
him that we would Soth go -.nd mafe* a bou full as big, and
more proportionable than that, wherein he might fafely re.»
turn to his own nation.
Thefe words made Friday look fo very penfive, that I
thought he would have fallen at my feet. It was fome time
before he could fpeak a word^ which made me afk him what
was the matter with him? He replied, in a very foft and
moving tone, u What has poor Friday done ? why are you
"angry, mad wi.h poor fervant? What me done, O what
" me done?*' Friday, faid I, you never yet have offended
me, what makes you think I am angry with you, when I am
nut angry at all. lfYou no angry, no angry," faid he, feveral
limes; "if you be no angry, why den fend Friday over
" great water to my o«vn nation V* Why furely, Friday, an-
fwered I, did not you wifh to be there, when from a moun-
tain you beheld the place where you was born ? and is it
not to fatisfy your defies that I am willing to give you
leave to return thither ?" Yes, yes'* faid Friday, "me wifh
" to be there, fure enough, but then me wifh matter there
" too : no wifh Friday there, no mailer there/' In fhorr,
he could not endure the thoughts of going there without mr.
OF R0F1NS0M GRUSOB. -I 1:3
-I go there! Friday, faid I, what fhall I do there? He an-
fwered Vf»ry quickly, ''O mailer, y->u do great deal much
" good, voa Jt^ach all de wild mans to be good tame mans;
*' you learn d-m to be fober, live good life, to know God,
uand pray God." Alas! poor Friday, faid I, what car* [
do againft their piefts of Benamuckee, or indeed what
good can I make your nation fenfible of, when I myfelf am
• buta poor ignorant man? "No, m, mailer," faid he, u you
"be no ignorant, you teaches me good, you teachee dem
"good." You fhall go without me, Friday, faid T, fori
don't care to accompany you thithrr; I wojld ratSer live
in this folitude than venture among fuch inhuman favage3.
Go your way, lince you defire it, and leave me alone by
myfelf, as I was before I faved ynur life.
Never was any creature more thun lerftruck than F'idav
was at-th^fe words. " Go me away, leave ma'ler away,1*
faid he, after along filence, <l n), no, Friday die, Friday live
€i not mailer gone," as though he had faid, I neither can
nor will live, if my matter fends me from him. And here I
cannot but take notice of the ftrong ties of friendfhip, which
.many times furpafs thofe of eonfanguinity: For often we
find a great difagreement among kindred ; and when there
is any feeming regard for each other, it is very feldom true,
and fcarce ever lafting, if powerful in'ereft does not bear
the fway; and that alone is often the occafion of the great-
eft hatred in the world, which is to defire the death of pa-
rents and relations, for the fake of acquiring their fortunes.
But theie was no fuch thing between my fervant and me ;
inftead of which there was thi greateft gratitude and the
mod iincere love; he found me not only his deliverer, but
his preferver and comforter; not a fever? and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of fuftenance; and when lis was ill or out of order,
I was his phyfician, not only for his body but his foul; and
therefore no wonder yvss it, that fuch an innocent creature,
long fmce divelted of his former natural cruelty, fhould have
an uncommon concern at fo cruel a feparation from me,
which pierced him to the very foul, and made him defire
even to die, rather than live without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very carelefe manner, that
he (hould be at liberty as foon as the boat was made, the
language of his eye3 exprefTed all imaginable confufion;
when, immediately running to one of his hatchets, which he
'T1'4'- -IflPE AND Atf^N'tfirft'fe*-
ufed to wear as a defehfive uea^onj he gives itlnterirfy*
hand, 'with a heart fo full, thafhe ctu'd*fcarcely (peak.—
^Friday, fa'd I, what is it you- mean ? Wlrat mull I do with
'this? "Only kill Friday," faid he-, '•« Friiiay care norliW
*' long." *4 But what mU-il J kill you for?" replied 1 again.
*' Ah ! dear mafter, what madcyou Friday fave from eat^
'"me up, fo keep long Friday, make Friday, love God, and
Hi love rot Benamu^kee^ 2nd bow Friday fetid away ; never
*'fee Friday "mere." As'fhough^e poor cYeatitfe h'Ad'jfeld^
4AIas! my !de^ieft kird m after, how ;comes it* 10 pafc, |tbac
^after havinjg ventured your'precious Jffe to fave xfteTrdrr* tfre
*jaws of devotfrWg'cahriib'als, ]\k^ myfelf, after fuch atender
togafd to'provide for me fuch ccfmfdrla&e ttour-iflfraeht,
and continuing fo long a kind*mailer, ahd anioft frheere
friend ; vsnS after making rrieforf&ke the falfe-noti&n eif an
'Jhdian 'id'eity, and wOiihip the true Gdd in fpint*afld*'hi
'truth; and after all' this, how cdmesit 'How,' that you a?e
w'UHttg \'6 ftnd me a^ay-to my fcrmerc^yrfe^oiTJiviri'g, By
•Vhidh means urdbubtedly wVMH be NfraH tb%adb Oiher;
'but^reater^muft be tny ntL<foYt&i1e,<that rfhktrrie^erfeShfclcl
-my'belt friend'I havt^n iheAvcVldftny more. Arid ^bis^h-
-'daubtediy, 'though he could "nofe^p-refs^himfelf'fa clearly,
smuft' be ;his 'fenttrrrents; for the tears ran' dbwif h!s cfieeks
'frffuch'a plentifubnl^ntier,that I had'tnuchadotd refr^n from
keeping affe, whefh Isbeheld the potfr treatirre'd afFectidh;
"fo h'hit 'I "was forced to com fort* him fn Vhe-'BeftmaRnfepL
XcufoVwhichJIidid by telling him, if h* was content'to ibldt
* witrrrrfe, lifbould be* eVer/willihg toJkeep? him.
After "Friday's grretf was fomewh at aba;ed, "more Mly t*o
"convince tire- d£ his fc'fFectidn, he faid, "O5 mafter, Jme:laot
*• C&re to be "irrrnyn*tidn, l;eave 'you 'hens : 'Nl'c ddfire^riarfcha
'^eaYn/g'G^'trrai's ail ;Y,imeanirrg, that his*dehVew£s for tfte
'Cor('VerfiariJofVhat ba'fbarbus people. Bin as I had no'a'pof-
*tolic "miiiron, aftor'any concern 'a'bdut tbefr falvatidn, ioxl
8had hot the reaft in:entidn'or deYire of-utvdertakmg it; add
theorem gib of my rr?ditfati6n, in order* ta'efcape, proceed-
•ed c h iefly {from my 1 ate difc6urfe Vi th Friday, about thefe.
ieverirreti -white bearded taen,,ftHat 'hafd been d>iven:updft
the barbarian coait, Whbm 1 -deiigried::ro join as the th'Py
irreans to further ofcr efcape. To which ihtent'niyman
"an'd I went to fearchfor a propter tree to fell, whereof'We
Ini'ghrroalte a large p^rigua or canoe,tourdertake £he Voy-
age; arid,, indeed, We ivere %irot 'lang''fa! fwrcifag One ^t;f(Jr
0F R.OB1T750N CRUSOE* tl5
our purpose, there being enough of wood m the i(land to
have built a fleet of large vefTeis; bat the thiftg we princi-
pilly wanted, was to get one fo near the wattr, that'we
might -launch it after it was finiihed, acdfnOt commit fo
-hoirid a mifhke as I had done once before.
Well, after a great fearch for what was be# arid mod
convenient, Friday, at laft, whofe judgment in fuch a-iEurs
?was much fuperior to mine, pitch* s upon a ki .d of wood
the maft-fitting for ir. To "this day I-cannot t-Jll»tHe ifa-tie
:oftii-e tr£e/nor:defcribe it an/-other wa-y/taan only fay fay-
ing, that it is very like what we call fu'iic* or between Kh&t
?xind.the ^Niac-ira^ua-w^od, baiag much of Xheia r>ec-^k>jr
rand froell. Bat though my m<Hr rxc^efe'd m« in my -krtow-
Jedge of rhe-ir*oft proper trer, -yet I (hewed him a mcfch
'better &nd clearer way to make a esnoe^han-ev^r-he^kriew
*befare;*for he was for burning the hoi low- Or canity of the
tree, in orldeMo make this boat j^bot I :then told him how'he
anight do it with tools, learning him-at the feme time how
%o tife-them, which indeed he did -very k£e»frer-oiifly ;~ fo that
in ta imoath?s time--we fhnftiedit, making h: v*ry h&ndfome
l>yxattiKgt-rhe outfi>ie in the rrue *ihape of a•*bfcat. *After
Jihis dt? tr^kus.a-ifufll fortnight*bfcforetwe,*c<>u$''get her^inco
thetwater, which we did as it were inch' by itichi'*upon<great.
isoiiersf-; bat twhnnUhe was- in, ifhe would* have carried fcw^n-
Ky <men, miVn 'ail.-the cafe; imaginable.
'As I was very weil*^ptaafdd, you an ay %e ^funvat *h^
launching of-xhfc iman of war of aime, 1 >wasno lefs -amazed
to -bshold with what dexsericy my- man would-'manage her>
fcupnhert mdp&ddivher akmg. Weil,'-Friday, fa?id 1, what
do you thirrk of it now? Do youthink this will canry us
overt u Yes, nrnfter," faid. he, ** me ^venture over -well,
*< though-g^emt 4>low ^vitfd*/* ihit'my defrgn wa-s yet far-
ther -which-he was isvieEfiDie^of; andthat was to'make'a
maft .iasid & fad!, fcmd to provide -her -with &rt ^anchor -&ik!
cable. !As to*. maH, that was no difficultthing stall to
procure: fo I fix^d upon a iftratght yeuhg cedar-tree, which
I found^near the place, great plenty of k abounding in the
iiland ; and ietting Friday to cut it down/! gave him parti-
cular directions how to ^mape arid-order it j but-as to the
foil, that I-managed mytelf. I very weirioiew i had fame
old "ones-, or pieces cf fails enough, which "had lain fix and
twenty ytars^by me j;'bu't not beiteg careful ttrpreferve them,
asmhinkkg I 'ikouldhaveno^cc^fid-h to. life themany-mo^ej
when I came to overlook them, I found them almofialf
rotten, except two; and with thefe 1 went to work, and
after a great deal of pains and awkward tedious flifching
for want of need'es, at length I finiQied a three-cornered
ugly th;ng, like what we call in England a moulder of mut-
ton fail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little (mail fprit
at the top, like thofe which our long-boats ofe,. and which
I very well knew how to manage, efpecially fince it was
like that which I had in my patron's timing-boat, when,
with my boy Xary, I made my efcape from the barbarian
ihore.
It was near two months, L think, before I completed this
work, that is, tire ringing and fitting my mails and fails;
ard indeed they were nicely done, having mide a fmall ftay
snd a fail or a forefail to it, to affift, if we mould tarn to
the weflward; and, what is dill* more, I fixed a rudder to
the Hern of her, to fteer with; and though I was buta very
indifferent (hipwrght, yet, as I was fenfire of the great
52fef.1lr.ef3 and abfolute neceflity^of a thing- like thist I ap*
plied nnfelf to it with fuch cenftant app'ication, that 1 &t
la(l accomp'iChed my-defignj- bat what with the many doiL
contrivances I had about it, and the failure of many thing*,
it ccfl: me as much pains in ordering as in making the boat*
Eefides, when all this was done, I had my man to teach
what belonged to its, navigation; for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe along, he was an utter
Granger to a fail, and* a rudder,, and was amazed when ije
faw me work the boat to and again in thefea, by them, and
how the fail gibbed and filled this way or that way, as the
courfe we failed changed, After fame time and a little
ufe, I made all thefe things very familiar to him, fo that he
became an expert Tailor* except in relation to the compafs,
and that I could make him underftand but little of. But as
it happened, there wzs feldom occafion for il, there being
but little cloudy weather* and fcarce any fog in thofe parts;
the ftars were always vifiblc in the night, and the fiiore
perfpicuous by day, except in,the rainy feafon, which^con-
fined every one to his habitation. Thus entered in the
feven and twentieth year of my reign, or captivity, which
you pleafe, (the laft three of which, bleffed with the com-
pany of my man Friday, ought not to be reckoned,) J kept
the anniverfary of my landing here, with the fame Ihank-
fulaefs to God, for his tender mercies, as I did before; and
certainly as I had great caufe for a thankful acknowledg-
ment for my deliverance at firft, I had much greater now
for fuch Angular and additional teftim ries of the care of
Providence over me, in all my diflreiTes cf boih body and
mind, and the great hopes I had of being effectually and
fpeedily delivered; for I had a ftrong t"-. predion upon my
mind, that I mould not be another >ear in thi= ifland, But,
jiowerer, I ftiil continued on with my hufbaodry, digging,
planting, and fencing* as ufuaJ-; gathering and curing my
.grapes, and doing ail other things that were nec-flary.
And now the rainy feafoo beginning to c^me on, obliged
me to keep the longer within doors; but before this, [ brought
my new VffTel into the creek, where 1 had landed my rafts
from the fhip, and hailing ner up to the more. I .ordered my
man Friday to dig a dock fufficient to hold her in, and deep
-enough to give her water, wherein me might float; and
then wh;n the tide was out, we m3de a ftrcng dam acrofs
the end of if, to keep out the water; by which means me
lay dry, as to the tide from the lea; and 10 keep the rain
from her, we thatched her over, as it were, with boughs of
trees, like a houfe, fo we waited for the months of Novem-
ber and December, in which i defigned to venture over the
ocean.
No fooner did the feafonahle weather begin to draw
near, but io much was I elevated with this ne.v defigned
adventure, that I daily prepared for the voyage. The aril
thing I thougnt on was, to lay by a certain quantity of pro-
vifiort*, as a fumdent ftore for fuch an expediion, intend-
ing in a week or fortnight's tine to cpen the dock, and to
launch out t =e boat for thatpurpofe. But one morning as I
was very bufy upon fotnetliing neceffary for this cccalion,
I called Friday to me, and bid him go to the fea*fh.ore, and
fee if he could find a turtle or tortoife, a thing which we
commonly had once a week, as much upon account of the
eggs, as for the fake of the item. He had not been long
gone, but he came running back, as though be was rurfued
for life, and, as it were, flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or had i\eps to fet his feet on,
and before I had time to inquire the reafon of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, *^U dear Matter, O forrow, forrow i
"Bad! O bad!** Why w hit's the matter, Friday, faid L
ei O yonder, yonder!" laid he, " there be one, t*o, or three
*icanoes I two truce l" Surely thought I, there mull be
ilx^ by my matins way offreckoning:; but on a ftricter
inquiry, I found there were but three.* Well, Friday, faid I,
don't be terrififd, I warrant you we will not only deftnd
ourfelves againit them, but kill the mo ft of thefe cruel fa-
vages. But thotigh I comforted him in. the beft manner I
could*; the poor creature trenrfeled. fo, rhat 1 fcarce knew
w,ha& to. do witkhimi: "O matter/' faid he "they come look
*< Friday, cut pieces Friday, cut a meup.?' Why, Friday,
faid I,, they will eat,me up as well as you, and my danger is
as great asj yours. But fince it is fo, we mail refolve to
fighfcifor our lives; What fay you.? Can you iight* Friday ?
** Yesy' faid he^ very .faintly, ff me . flioot^ me ^kill what I
** can,* but > there come a great.many number." That*s no
matter, faid I again,, .our guns will, (errify thofe we do Jiot
fcil):; I ram yeny willing tofland by youto thedall dropiof
my blood.> Now, tell mc if you will do thi like by me, and
obey my orders: in whaifoever I command'? Friday then>
an&verfd,. «< o m-afler, me lofe life, for you,,me die when.
'* you bid. die." Thus concluding :all quefiions concerning
his fidelity, immediately! I fetched him a good dram of rum,
(ofwhich I had been a very gcod huibandj and gave ithim
t^conxfort. his heart. After be had drank it, I ordered him
to take the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried,
and loaded them with. la~ge fwan (hot, asibig a* (null piftol
bullets;; then:J took four jnufkeis, and loaded them with
t\vo. flugs ; and . fivr -fmail ;bulkis each, charging my, two.
piflols. each with.a brace ; J htmgrmy great fword, as cuf-
tornpry, n ked to my-fide,, and gave Friday his hatchet, as a
mouSexcdJeru weapon for defence.
Thus, preipaned,, 1 thought as well of myfelfas any knight-'
errant thai ever handled a fword and fpear- I took my* per-
fect ive<g taf*:> and went up.ro the fide of the hill, to fee_
what;.I „cou)d 'difcoyer-; and I perceived very foon, by my \
g«lafsvthat therawereone and twenty U vages^ threeprifonersji
snd three xanoe?, and ttoaj: their chief concern feemed to
be the triumphant barquet upon* the three poor human
bodies, a ihirg which by this-time:! had obferved was very
common with tbe.m. 1 alfo remarked, • that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made hisdespe, but
nearer-ito the creek, where Lhc tliore wasJowy and - wnere a
thick wood came .very cofeto the fira. My fouh was then *
fi lied;, with, indignation and abhorrence at fuch inhuman*8
wretches-, whicji put a.peripd to all my former thoughts in>
their vindication, neither would J give myfelf time to con-
^der their right) of con>quen\ as I had done before: but de-
' fcending from the mountain, I came down to .Friday j andt
-told him I was refotved to,go fpeedijy totbe.rri, and kill
them all; afking htm again, in the .fame, breath/ if be would?
Hand, by, me: when by this time.bejng recovered,fr.om;-his-
fright, and his fpicks mucji.cheered, wkh Ihedr^m I had,
given him,, he was very. p!eafant>, yet ferionfly. telling me,
a$ he did,before, " Wjhen'I bid die, he wo^ld die/'
And now it was* haying feed my refolution m fa fijrong.
~a manner, that nothuig could divert my breaftof its uncom-*
mon foryf I immediately divided ,therloaded< arms betwixt,
ois. To my matar Friday I ga,yfiia pifto.l to flick in his gir?
die,; *uh three guns..upan,bis moulder, a weight too great,
I confefs, to. bear; hat what muft a. poor kbg dp^ who had;
but one foldier in the„world? Hut to (how I mad^hinxbsar
no more-than what I would lay on myfclf, I (hick the other
.-piftol in my girdJev and the other three guns upon my.
fhoulderJi; nay, Something more, but,that was like iEf p's.
'burden, a fmall bott'.e of rum,, which was.f>on lightened to
-Our exceeding refrefbment. Thus we ^marched out, under,
a ponderous load\of armour^ like two invincible champions,
with a quantity of pj^der and bulJets to ftand our battle*
and 1 )ad again when the pieces were dilcharged. And
-now my orders being to be obeyed, I charged Friday ta,
- keep clofe behind me, and not to ftir, or (hoot,, or attempt :
any thing till Tcommindsd him ;-and in the interim, not to
fpeak fo much as one v,ord. It was in thi* order 1 fetched.
a cempafs to the right hand., of near a mrle, es well to get »
over the creek, as to attain the wood ; and by this I thought *
to come within.fhot of them before I could be difcerned, as
I found, by my glafe, would not be difficulrto accompliffw
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men, even in -.
our greUeft fury .and drongefl inclinations! For while I 
was taking this march, my refohition began to abate, not -
-through fear of their numbers, who were a parcel of naked •
unarmed wretches, but thore refactions occurred to my ^
thoughts: what power.-w.aS. I commitfioned with, or what
occasion or • ntceifity had 1 io go anci4mbrue my hands in
human blood, and murder.people tSat had neither done, nor .
• intended to do, mc any wrong? They v\ere innocent ia
.particular as to. me; and their barbarous cu(lorn was not*
• only their misfortune, but a fign that God had left them irt
the mojt immenfe (lupidity; but yet did not warrant me to
be^a judge of their action*, much Jefs an executioner of his
righteous judgments: Thac. cti U>e contrary, whenever he
thought fit, he would take verg-.ance on them himfelf, and
purifh them in a national way, accord i;g to their-national
crimes; but this was nothing at all ti me, who had n con-
cern with tru-m. Indeed my ma^ Friday might ju-ftUy lim-
felf, becaufe they were his declared enemies, of that very
fame nation that v,ent to facrifice him before; and, indeed,
it was lawful for him to attack them, wh'ch.l could cot fsy
was (o with refp'tt tc>me. So warmly did thefe th$ng-s prefs
upon my t hough's ail the way 1 wtnt, that i only refolved
to place myfelf fo as to behold their bloody enfjertanm-nt
without falling upon them, except fomething m re tb-f. or-
dinary, by God's fpecial direction, ihouldobligene thereto.
' Thus fixed in my refolution, 1 entered into the thick wood,
(iriv man Priday following me clofe behind,) when wi:h ail -
poflible warireis and filece, I marched till 1 camt to the
ikirt of it, on that fide which w&s the nearell to them; for
enly or>e end of thi wood interpofed between me and them,
Upon which i called very fuftly to Friday, and fhowir.g him
3 great tree, that was jult at the comer of the wood, I or-
deied him to repair thither, and bring me word if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly he did as 1 com-.
jnanded him, and came back with this melancholy ftory,
that they were all about their fire, eating the fleih of one of
their prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the (and,
at a little d.ilance frtm them, wh'ch they detigned fcr the
next faenfice, and to is he told me was.not one of their na-
tion, but cne of thofe very bearJed mm, who were driven
by a ftorm into their country, ar.d of whom he had fo oiLen
talked ,to me about. You may be fure, that upon htajir.gthk,
my foul was ready to link within me : when, afcendmg into
a tree, I faw plainly by my glafs^ a white man, who lay upon,
the beach ofthefea, with his hands ard feet tied witn flags,
or thivgs refembling ruihes, being coveted with clothes,
and fren.ed to be an European. From the tree whe eltook
this profpeci, I perce ved ano her tree and a trrcket beyond
5*i about fifty )ards nra.er to them than wheie 1 wa^s, wntch,
by taking a imalI circle round, 1-might come in un^ifcovered^
?nd then I fh« uld be within half a Iboc ot thele devourera.
And this conhderatiun alone, to be moie perfectly revenged
upon them, made me withhold my paffion, though 1 was
enraged .to-the hightll degree imaginable^ when going
back about twenty paces, I got behind Tome bufhes, which
he'd all the way till I came 10 the other tree; and then £
afcended to a little rifmg giound, not above eighteen yards
diftance, and there 1 had a full view of thefe creatures, and
I cculd perceive all their anions.
Such a fight did then appear as obliged me not to lofe
a moment's time No Iefs than nineteen of thefe dreadful
wretches fat upon the ground, clofe nu Idled together, ex-
preffing all the delight imaginable at fo barbarous an en-
tertainment j and thev had juit fent the other two to murder
this poor unhappy Chriftian, and bring him limb by limb
to their fire; for they were th n juft going to unie the
bands from his feet in t rder for deitn, as fetters are knock-
ed off the feet of milefaclors before they go to the place of
execution. Hereupon, immediately turning to my man,
row, Friday, faid 1, mind what I (ay, fail in nothing, but
6o exactly as ycu fee me do. Ml when he promiiing he
would perform, I fet down one of my mulkets and fowling-
piece upon the ground, and Friday did tne fame by his ; and
with the other rnufket I took my aim at the favages, bidding
him do the like: Are you ready ? faid I: " Yes, mailer/'
faid he; why then fire at tue.D, faid Ij and that very mo-
ment I gave fire Hkewife.
I only killed one and wounded two; but my man Friday,
taking his aim much be:ter than I, killed two and wounded
three. You may be fure they were in a dreadful confte.-na-
tion at fuch an unexpected difafter, and tho e who had yet
efcaped our penetrating (hot, immediately jumped upod
their feet, but were in iuch a con(u{ionf th it they knew not
which way to run or Lok, not kt.owing Iron whence their
deftrucHon came. We threw down our rieces 2nd took up
o;hers, giving a fecend dreadful volley j but as they wfr'e
loaded only with fwan ihot, or (mill pidol bullets, we per-
ceived only two of ihem fall; though many were wounded,
who fan felling and. ft reaming sb ut like mad creaiures.
Now, Fr'day, iaid I, lay down \oor piece, and take up the
muiket, find follow me. He did fo, with great courage;
when, ihowirg ourfelves to the lavages? we gave a great
fhout, #nd made directly to the poor victim, who would -
have been facrificed had rot cur full lire obliged the butch-
ers, with three others, to jump into a canoe. By my order
Friday fired at them, fit which thot I thought he had killed
them all, by reafonof their falling to tie bottom of the boat;j
J?
however,(be killed two, and mortally wounded a third. In
the mean t:me, I cut the flaes that tied the hincis and fe. t
cf the p >or creature, and lifting him up, aik d him in the
Portupuefe tongue, What he <was ? He anfwered m? in Latin,
Chrijlianui ; but fo very weak and faint, that he could fcarce
Hand or fpeak.* Immediately I gave him a dram, and a
piece of bread to cherifh him, and afked him what country-
man he was? He f*id Hifpan:o!a, a^d th:n uttered all t^e
thankfulnefsim2ginabre for his deliverance. Seignior, faid I,
with as much Spanifh as I was mafler of, let us talk after-
wards hul fight now; here take this fword and piitol, and
do what ycu can- And, indeed, he did fo with fuch cou-
rage and intr*pdity, tint he cut two cf them in pieces h
an inilant, the favages not having tr-e power to fly for their
jives. J ordered Friday to run for th .fe pieces we had left
st the tree, which he brought me with great Iwiitnefs, and
then I gave him my mufket, while I loaded the reft. But
now there happened a h\rce encounter between the Spnn:-
ard and on-' cf the favages who had made at him with one
of their wooden fiords ; and though the f rnr>er was as
brave as could be expecled, having twice wounded h's ene-
my in the head, yet bei g weak and fain:, the Indian had
thrown him upon the ground, and was wretling my fword
out of his hands, which the Spaniard very wifely qu'tiing,
<?rew out his piftol and (hot him through the body before I
could come r^ear him, though I was running to his affiitance.
As for Friday, he pi'rfued. the flying wiexheN wuh his hatch-
et, difpatching three, but t>e rtt\ were too nimble for hm.
The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-pieces, wounded
two, who running into the wcod, Friday purfued and killed ;
-hut the other, notwithflanding his wounds, plunged hirnfelf
into the fea, and (warn to thofe who v»ere left in the canoe,
which, with one wounded, were all that efcaped oi of o..c
and twenty. The account is as follows;
Killed at firft fhot from the tree, .3
At the fecond (hot, . . . * . 2
,By Friday in the boat,, * . , . 2
Ditto, of tWe rkft wounded, ........ 2
Ditto, in the wood, I
J3y the Spaniard, «. . , , 3
JCilled, cr died of the'r wounds, .4
Reaped iathebsat, whej-epfone was wounded if not flain^i
Toulta
The ravages in the canoe worked wy^fia-d t*> get oat
of our reach, and Friday was as eager in^purftrng them;
and indeed I was no lefs an-x ous about their efcape, left*
after the news had been carried to their people, they fliould
return in -multitudes and deliroy us. So being refolved to
purfue them, I jumped into one of their canoes, and bii
Friday follow me; hut no fooner was I in, than, to my fur-
prife, I found another poor cr-ea ure bousid hand and toot
for the (laughter, juft as the Spaniard had been, with vtry
little life in him* Immediately I unbound him, and would
toave helped him up, but he could neither ftsnd nor fpeak,
but gToaned fo piteoufly, as thinking he was only unbound
in order to be (lain. Hereupon 1 bid Friday fpeak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; when pulling out my
bottle, I made the poor wretch drink a dram, which, with
the joyful news he had received, fo revived his heart, that
he fat up in the b.at. As foon as Friday be^an to heir him
fpeak, and look more fully in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to perceive h's uncommon transports of
joy; for he killed, embraced him, 4iu^ged him, cried,
laughed, haiooexl, .jumped abour, danced, fung, then cried
again, wwrg his hand?, beat his fac? aid head, then fung
and jumped about again, like a dillracled c,rea:ure; fo t-h*t
it was a great while before I cculd ma-ke him fpeak to roe,
CT tell me what was the matter with him; but when .he
-came to the Hbtr.ty of.hss fpeech, atcthe lafl 4ie told .me ;it was
iliis father.
Here indeed I wa^ ir.finilriy rroved to fee that dutiful
and tender affection this poor favag-e hvd to his.aged parent,
Ke would lit down by-him in the boat, open his bre&ft, and
hold his father's head clofr to 14s bofom, hall an hour toge-
ther, to cherifti him,: then he took h'^s arirs ar.d ancles,
which were fliiF and ivumbed .wiib binding, a?nd chafed and
•rubbed them with his ha ds; by which means, perceitvincr
what the cafe was, I gave him tome rum., whicn proved of
great benefit to him.
While we were bufy in .this .aclion, the tavages had got-
ten almoft-ovk of fight; and happy it was we did nut p>f.
Jue them-: For ther^e ar,ofe from the roah-weti, which con-
tinued all night long, luch a violent Horn', that 1 could no:
jnppofe otherwise but that they wc»e all orowr.ed. Alter
this 1 called Friday to ir;e, and a^kjed him if he had given
his father any brcaa r lie (heck liis head a-nd fai , " None
F2
** not crte bit, me eat a up all ;" fo I gave h:m a cake of
l>read out of a little poUch I carried for this end. J like-
wife gave h;m a dram for himf-lf, and two or three bunches
of raifins for his father. Both thefe he carried to him, for
he would make him drink the dram to comfort him.
Away then he runs out of the boat as if he was bewitched
with fuch an extraordinary fwiftnefs, that he was out of
fight as it were in an inftant; but at his return I perceived
him flacken his pace, bccaufe he had fomething in his hand.
And this 1 found to be, as he approached nearer, an eanhen
jug with fome water for his father, with two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. B^ing very
thirfty myklf, f drunk fome of the water, cf which whea
his father had drank fufficiemly, it more revived his fpirits •
, than all the rum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to carry the
Spaniard one of the cakes, and fome water, who was
repcfing himfdf under a green place, under the (hade of a
tree, but fo weak, that thcugh he exerted hioifelf, be could
not (land upon his feet. Upon which I ordered Friday to
rub and bathe his amies with rum, as he did his fatoer's.
But every m'nute he was employed in this he would caft a
tvifhful eye towards the boat, where he left his father fit-
ting ; who fudden'y difippearing, he flew like lightning
to him, and finding he had only laid' himfelf down to eale
his limbs, he returned back to me p refer, tly, a^.d trun I
fpoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him, ani lead him
to the boat, in order to be conveyed to my dwelling, where
I would take care of him. U[pon which Friday took him
upon his back$ and fo carried him to the cinoe, fetting him
elofe by his father; and prefently flopping out again,
launched the boat off and padd'ed it along the more falter
than I cculd walk, thcugh the wind blew very hard too,
and having brought them fafe to the creek, away he runs to
fetch the other canoe, which he brought (o the cretkalmoit
• as foon as I got to it by land, when wafting me over, he
took our new gueftsout of the boat; but fo weak were they
that J was forced to make a kind of a hand-barrow; and
when I came to my caftlc, not being willing to make an
entrance into my wall, we made them a handfome tent,
•covered with old fails, and boughs of uees, making two
•good beds of rice ftraw, with blankets to lie upon and cover
them. Thus, like an abLIute king over fubje&s who owed
their lives to me, I thought myfelf very con Oder able, efpe-
cially as I had now three religions in my kingdom, my man
Friday being a Proteltart, his father a Pagan, and the Spa-
niard a Papift : but I gave libmy of conference to them all.
To get provifions for my poor weak fubjecls, I ordered
Friday to kili me a yearling* goat; which when he had doBey.
I cut off t e hinder quarters, and chopping it ioto fcnail
p!eces, boiled and Hewed it, putting barley and rice into
the broth. This I carried into their tent, fet a table, dined,
with them myfelf, a ad ercouraged them. Friday whs my
int-rrreter to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who fpoke the language of the favages pretty well. After
6 nner, i ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from the
field of hait'e, and the next day, to bury the dead bodies'*..
which he did *ccrrdingly.
Aid now I -mad? Friday inquire of his father, whether
he thought thefe fav?gc$ had efcaped the late ftcrm in their
canoe? and if fo, whether they would not return with a
power too great for us to refill? He anfwered, that he
thought it im-poffible they cculd outlive the itorm; or, if
they were driven fouchvmdly, they would come to a land
where they would be as certainly devoured, as if they were
drowned in ihe fea. And fuppofe they had'attained their.'
own count'y, the flrangenefs of their fatal and bloody at-
tack, wculd make th?m tell their people, trut the reli of
them were killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly fpirits, (meaning Friday
and me,) who were- font from above to deftroy them, And
thi*, he faid, heknew,becaufe he had heard them fay the fame
to one another* And ;ndeed he was in the right on't ; for
I l*ave heard fince, that thefe four men gave out that who-
ever went to that enchanted ifland, would be destroyed by
firs from the geds-
No canoes appearing foon after, as I cxpedled, my ap-
prehenlions ceaf d : lnilead of which my former thouchts
of a vo)age cook place, efpecially when Friday's fatner af-
fured me, I mould have good ufage in his nation. As to
the Spaniard, he told me, that fix een more of his country-
men and Pi.rtuguefe, who had been (hipwrecked, made
their efcape thither; that though they were in union with
the favages, yet they were very miferable ft r want if pro-
vifions and oiher neceflaries. When I afked him ab ut
the particulars of his voy ge, he anf^e.ed that their (hip <
F 3
was bound fiom Ro de la Plata to the Havannah; riiafc
whm the ffiip was Ioft,.onJy five men peri/hed in the ocean ;
the reft, having faved themfdves in the boat, were now
landed o> the main continent. And what do they intend
to do. there? faid I. He replied, th*y hav* concerted mea-
fares to efcape, by building a vefftl, but chat they had nei-
ther tools nor provi&ons, To that ail their defigna came to
nothing. Suppjfing, faid I, I fliou!d mike a propofal,- and
invi.e them here> would they not carry me prifoner to New
Spa'n ? He anfwered no ; for he knew then* to be fiich ho-
ned men, as would (corn to a& fuch inhuman bafenefs to-
vheir, deliverer: That, if J pleafed, he and the old favage
vould.go over to them, talk with them about it, and bring
me an, anfwe*; That they ft odd all faear fidelity to me
as ther leader, upon she Holy Sacrament; and, for his part,
he w ukl not only do the fame, but ftand to the lafl drop
cf his b!o, dt fhould there be occafion.
Thefe folemn eflurances made me refolve to grant them*
relief, and to fend thefe iwo over f r that purpofe; but
when, every thing was ready, the Spaniard raifed an objec-
tion, which carried a gr^at deal cf we'ght ia it: " Voi*
"kiuw, Sir/' faid he, "that having been fome time with
" you, I cannot bjt be fenfible of your ftock. of rice and
f< c^rn, fufikient, perhaps, for us at prefent,.hut not for them,.
** (liouJd -hey come over prefeudy,, much lefs to visual a
**vef$cl" for an intended voyage.. Want might be »s great
" an occali n for them to dif«gree and rebel, as the children,
u of lfrael did againft God hlm-felf, whon they wan*e<i
*' bre d in the wilJernefs. And, therefore, my advice is,.
£* to wait another harveft, and:, in-ihe mean time cultivate?
*' and improve fome more land1, whrrehy we may have
u plenty r £ provifjors, in order to execute our defi-go."
Thi* advice of the SpairarJ'-s I approved extremely, and,
£o fa-tis-fi d was I of his fidelity, t;iat 1 eJteemed him ever-
aft* r. And thus we all four went to work upon,fome mora
land,, and againft feed-rime we had gotten fo much cured
and trimrred up, as was fuiheient to few- twenty-two buihels.
of barley on, and fix een jars of rice, which was, in (hort^
all the- fe d we had to fparev As we weie four in.number,,
and by this time all in g^od health, we feared not a hun<*
tired Indians, fhould they venture to attack us;, and while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon fome trees, fk to*
baild us a Iar^e vefTelj, m cafe the Spaniards cajae over $
which being marked, I ordered Friday and h's father (o cat
them down, appointing ibe Spaniard, who was now my
privy counsellor, to overfee and direft the whole. I like-
wife increafed my ft >cks of goats, by (hooting the w Id
darn*, and bringing home their kids to my inclofure. Nor
did I negleft the grape feafon, bit cared them as ufual,
though 1 had fuch a quantity now, as would have filled
e:ghcy ha-res with raifins. And thus all of us being em-
plo. e<^, the)1 in working, and I in providing for them, till
harveil Ciroer G"d Aknigbty bleffed the ircreafe of it fa
much) that from twenty-two barrels of barev, we thrafh d
out two hundred and tw-enty, and-the Hke quantity of ri:e,
fufHci nt to victual a ftiip ffcto--carry me and all the Spani-
ards to ewiv part of America.
Thus* the principal objection being anfweredrby a fufh>
ciert ftock of provifions, I fent my two ambaffadors over
to the main land, wkh a regal authority to adminilkr the
oaths of allegiance ar,d fidelity, and have aa inflrument
figned under their hands, though I never afked whether
they had p*n, t..k, or paper ; when giving each of them a
mo&et, eight charges of powder and ball, and prov fions
enough for eight days, they Liled away with a fair gale,
en a day wh n the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had pa (Ted over my head, bat im-
patient for their return, I laid me do*n to ft ep one morninfy
when a ftrarge accident happened, which was ufhered in
bv Friday's ccrnirg running to mer and calling aloud,
«l Matter, mailer, they are come, they are come." Upon
which, not dreaming of a*iy danger, oi*t 1 jamped from my
bed, put on my c'ot.Les,and hurried through my little grove;
when, looking towards the fea, I pe-ceived a boat about a
league and a half diliant, Handing in for therlhore with ther
wnd fair. 1 btheld they did rot come from the fide wherer
the land Iayrn, but from the fouthernmoft end of theifland ;.
So thefe beirg none cf the- people we wanted, I ordered
Friday to be ftill, till fuch- lime as I canve down from the
mountain, which w;th my ladder I now afcer.ded, in order
to difcovpp. mote fully what they were; and now with the
help of my peWprfrive glaf% I plainly perceived an Eng--
l'{h ftupr which 1 concluded it to be, by the fafhion of us*
long b at; and which filled me with fuch uncommon trans-r
ports of joy, that I cannot tell how to defcribe; and yet-
i&me fecret doubts hung about me, proceeding from I know*
not What fcaufe, as though I had reafon to be upon my
guard. And, indeed, I wouM have bo man contemn the
iecret hints and intimations of danger, wrrch very often are
given, when we may imagine there is no poffibilky of its
being real ; fcr had I not been warned by this iil-ent admo-
nition, I had been in; a worfe fituation than before, and
per hi p^ inevitably ruitS'ed,
Not Jong it was, before f pfrceived the boat to approach*
the fhcre, as tlhcugh they looked fur a plaice where they
Jtiight conveniently land ; and at laffc ^hey ran their boat on
fhore upon t e beach, about half a: mile's diftance; which
proved fo much the happ'er for me ; fince, had they come
into thecretk, they had landed julf, at my door, and mighc
not only have forced me out-of my caftle, but plundered
me of all I had in the world. Now I Was fully con-
vinced they werea'l Englifhmen, three of which were unm-
anned and bound ; when immedia'ely the fir ft four or five
hared on fho:e, and took tl.ofe thn-e out of the boat as
prifonersj one of whom I could .perceive ufed the mod
pafli n^te geltures of entreaty, affliction, and defpdr, while
the others, in a leflVr degree, fhowed abundance of concern;
Not knowing the meaniar? of this, I was very much as-
tcniflied, and I beck ned to Friday, who was below, to
afcend the mountain, and Hkevvife in view th;s fight. " O
•'m^iter," faid he to me, " you fee Englifti nlafts ea< prii
** foners ?-s Weil as f vage mans,'* Ard do ycu think they
will cat them, Friday ? faid 1, " Yes," faid Friday, " they
*< cac-a all up." No, no, faid I, Friday, i am much more
concert ed left they murder them, but as for eating therii
up, that [ am fu-e th-y will neVer do.
? nd now I i ot only lamented my misfortune in not hav-
^ing the Spaniard and the lavage with me, but alfo that I
could not-come w'.thin fbot of ihem unperceived, (they hav-
ing no fire-arms among them.) and fave thele three men,
whom I thougi.t they were going to kill with their f words.
But fome contort it was t) me. that I perceived they were
fet zt lib rtv to go where they pleafed, the rafcally teamen
fcatterirg about as though they had a mind to fte the place;
and fo lung did they e.egligenily ramble, that the tide had
ebbed fo lo-v as to leave the boat aground. Nor were the
two men who were in her more circuir.fpect; for having
drunk a little too much iiq.ior, they fell fail afleep; but cne
of tf.era waking before the other, and perceiving the beat
.too fail aground for his ftrength to move it, he hallooed out
to the reft, who made all poffible expedition to come to
him ; but as Providence ordered it, all their force was in-
effectual to launch her, when I could hear them ("peak to
one another "Why let her alone, Jack* can't ye; fhe'lt
float next tide ;" by which words I was fully convinced they
were my own coir try men. I all this while lay very quiet,
&s-being fully fenfible it could be no iefs than ten hours be-
fore the boat could be afloat, and then it would be fo dark,
that they could not cafiiy perceive me, by which means £
fbould- be more at liberty to hear their talk, snd obferve all
their motions; not but that I prepared for my defence \ yer, .
as lhad another fort of p.n enemy to combat with, { acted
.with more camion. I took two fufees on my ihoulder,, and/
jeave Friday, three mulkes; befiics my formidable goat-
Ik'm ccat and m niirnus cap made me lo^k as fierce and •
terrible as Hercules of old, efpecially when two piftobwere
Huek in my belt, and my naked f«ord hanging by my (lie.
It was, my defign at firft not to make any attempt tiil it 
was dark ;: and it being now two o'clock, in the very heat
of the day, 'he failors were ail Itragghr.g in ihe woods, and *
undoubtedly were lain dawn to fleep. - The three poor di(- -
trefL'd creatu-i-cs, too anxious to get any repofe, were how-
ever feased under the fhade of a great tree, abemt a quarter ~
of a mile from me. Upon^which? without any more ado, I-
approached towards them, with my man following-behind
me, and, before I was perce ved, I called aloud to them in *
Spanilh, k* Wftat are ye, Gentlemen?''"
At thefa word?,- they ftarted up in great confufion, when *
they beheld the Grange-figure 1 m?.de; they returned no
.fcnfwer, but feemed as if they would fly from me. *' Gen-
*( tlemen/'Tad I, inEnglifh, *< don't be a.'raid ; perhaps you *
."'have a frierd n arer thin ycu-exp'ct." "He mult be
*v,from Heaven," fatd one cf them, gravely, pulling off his
.hat, " for we arc pa ft ^11 help in th's world/' " M\ help
'* is from Heave-v,'1 faid 1; u bit, Sir, as I have perceived :
/'every action between you ar,d -thefe- brutes, firce your
*' landing, only- inform me hew to aflilt you, and I will do *
*" it to the utmoil u my power,"
if Am I talking with God or man,"'fatd he, in melting
tears. i£ Are you- of human k:n;l or sn angel ?" Cl Sir," *
fatd I, f< my poor hack will tell ycu I an a man, and an
*'Entlith-rn.ao.j wtlLngao -affi-ft ycur having but this ferva&&*
F5-
*40r.ly: Here ape arms and ammunition; tell freely your
''condi.ion: Cair we fave you ?" «« The ftory," faid he„
" is too long to relate, flnce our butchers are fo near ; bur
"Sir, I was matter of that fhip, my men have mutinied,,
*' and it is a favour they have put my mate, this paflergeiy
"and me, on (bore without murdering us, though we ex-
*' peer nothing but priming here." '« Are your enemies
fcl gonr »> faid I. " No," replied hf, pointing t©<a tiucket,
" there they lie, while my heart trembles, left having feen
" and heard us, they fhour'd murder us all." « Have they
" fire arms r" (aid I. " They have but two pieces," faid
he, " one of which is left in the boat/' He alfo told me
there were two enormous villains among them, thai were
the autho-s of this mutiny, who, if they were killed or
fe?zed, might induce- the reft to return to their obedience. -
•' Well, well," faid I, "let us retire farther undt?r the
*' covering of the woods;" and there it was I made thefe
conditions with him.
L That, while they ftaid in the ifland, (hey mould not
pretend to any authority; but mould entirely confopm to
my orders, and return me the arms which I fhould put in
their hands*
II. That, if the fhip was recovered, they fhould afford.
Fr"day ac d myfelf a pafT-»ge grans to England.
When he had givea me all the fatisfacVton I could defire,
I gave him and his two companions each of them a gun,
with powder and ball fuffircient, advi/ing thfm to fire upon
them as they lay fleeping. The Captain modeflly faid, that
he was forry to kill them;, though, on the other hand, to
]et thefe villains cfcape, who were the auhor^of his mifery,
might be the ruin of us all. " Well," faid he, '^doas you
•' think fit;" and fo accordingly I fired, killed one of the
Cap-tain's chief enemies,vand w-oun^ed the other,- who eagerly.
called kr alliance; but the Captain who had refcrved
his piece,, coming up to h:ro, u Sirrah," faid he, " 'tis too
'Maie to c^H' Lr affidar.ee, )ou f-lru'd rather cry to God to
li pa/d^n your villany ;." and fo knocked him down with
the Hock of his gun; three others were alfo ilightly wound-
ed, who at my approach cred cut for help. This the Cap-
tain granted, upon cordition that they would f*ear to be-
true to him in recovering the fhip, which they fo'emnly did;
h' wever I obliged the Captain to ke?p them b und. After
vkich I fert F/d'iy. and die Capuia's mats to fecu,e-the.
hout, and bring away the oars and fails; when, at their rec-
tum, thiee men coming back, and feeing their late diftrelTed
Captain now their c nqueror, fubmitted to be bound alfo^
And then it was; that having more liberty, i related the ad~-
ventur-s of my own life, whi„h he heard with*-a ferious-
and wonderful attention. After this, I carried hrm and his-
two companions into my H tie fortified canle; fhowed then*
ai my conveniences, and refrefhed them with fmch provi-
sions as I could ?i£brd. When this was over we began.to*
confider about regaining the fhip. He faid that the e were:* .
twenty-fix har^s on board, who knowing their lives were?
forfeited by the law for cunfpirscy and mutiny, were fo very
hardened, that it would be dargerous for our (mall com pany-
to attack ihzm. Th;s was a reafonable inference indeed •
but fomething we muft refolve or, and immediately put iri^
executv n. We tr ere fore heai'ed the boat upon the beadi
fo high that ihe could not (hoot off at high wa;er~mark, and
hrok- a hole in her not eafiiy to be (topped; fo that all the-
ftgnals they gave for the boat to cor\.e onboard were in
vain. This obliged them to fend another boat afhore, wirh>i
ten men^ armed, who-fe faces the Captain plainly de'eried*.
the boatrwain be'ng the chief ofiker; bul he faid there
were three honeil lads among:- them, who- were forced
in o the onfplracy. Hereuptn I gave him frefh courage,,
(for I had perceived: he was in conce.n,) in the mean while-
fee tiring qjt prifoner-, except two, whom we took to our"
affiftance, we thought ourfelves able enough to-adventure -
a battle. When the fa^rs Imded, and beheM their boat-
in that condition, they not ©*vly hallooed, but fired for their -
companions to- hear, yet they received no a«nfwcr. rl his
llruck them- with horror and amasement; and thinking their*
companions were murdeied*, they made as if they wou d re-
turn to the mip. i;<could* perceive,,the Captain's counter-
nance change at this, till ofa fudc!en,\th-ree men w-ere or-
dered to leck after the boat, while the other- feven leapt on**
ftiorein or^er to fearch f r the'r companion?;, and., iideed*.
they came to the brow of the hi.'l, near my ancien-c caftlr,,.
from whence they could fee to a great diirancein^he woodsy,
and there mouti-g and hallooing till nredand weary ,,-the^
at length, feated themfelves under a fpread^ng tree. My.
opinion was, that noilwng could be dore till night, when fch
might ufe fome artifice to get them all out? of the boat; bux*;
of. a fudden they darted up, and made to the fea-fid^,
132 tir'H AND AtiVEN'T'tfR^S
hereupon I ordered Friday ^nd the Captain's mate t6 go
over the cterk, and hailco as !oud as they could, and fo de-
coving them into the woods, come round to me aga'n. And
rftis, indeed, had good effect; for they followed the noife>
till coming'weftward to the creek> thev called for their boat
to carry them over, and taking one of the rnen out of her,
left two to look after her, having fattened her lo the flump
of a little tree en ftiure. Hereupon immediately the Gap-
tain ard our party pafling the creek, out of their fight, we
furprifed trem both, by the Captain's knocking down one
and ordering the other to fdrrertder upon pa'n of idea h,
and who being the honefieft of them all, fincerely joined
with us. By this time it was pretty rate; when the red
returning to their boar, which they found aground in the
creek, the tide cut, and the men gone, they ran about wring-
ing their hands, crying it uas an enrhaned ifland, and th C
thc-y mould be all murdered by fpirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but I would not
agree to raz^rd any*of our party. But, to be more certain,
. Friday ?nd the Captain crau led upon their hands and feet,
as near as poilible ; and when the bca'Avain approached
in tight, fo eager was the Captain, that he fired and kdled
him on the fpo. ; Friday wounded che next man, at d a third
ran away. Hereupon 1 advanced with my whole army;
and, it bein^ dark, I ordered the man we had furprifed in
the boat, to ca!l them by ihe:r name's^ and to pniey with
them. Accordingly he called out aloud, " Tom Smith,
Tom Smith!" He anfwered, " Whofe thatr" "Robinfon!"
anfwercd the ether. ** Per God's fake, Tom, furrender
4i immediarely, cj ycu're all dead men." (i Who mud we
** furrender to?"'fays Smith. u To our Captain and fifty men
'( heref who have taken me prif jner, wcurded Will Fryer,
u and killed the boatfwa'n*" <4 Shall we have quarters
then?'* f'aii Ic. Hereupon the Captain calls out, " Ycu
*£ Smith, ycu know my v ice, furrender immediately, and
"yru fii:il have al! - ycur lht:s granted, except Will A kins*"
Rtr upen A; kins cr'edou', il Wr«at have I d:me, Captdn^
** more than the re;*, who.have been as bad as me V* But
that was a l:e, for he w-.s the p rfon -that laid hid of him,
and boiKd h;m. However he was irJerej to Lbrn't to the
gove'rnoi% mercy, for fuch was I called. And fo, laying
down their ar:n?5 we
boat.
' After this, the captam export ulated with them, telling
them that the governer was an linglifhman, who might.ex-
ecute them-there; but he thought they would all be fent lo
England, except Will Atkins, who was ordered to prepare
for death the nest mon-ing. Hereupon Atkins implored the
Captain to intercede for his lite, and the reft begged they
might not be fent to England. This anfwered our project
f r feizing the (hip. For after fending-Atkins and two of
the wont fait bound to the cave, s-nd the reft being com-
mitted to my bower, I fent the Captain to treat with them
in the governor's name, offering them pardorrff they would
aflift in recovering the (hip. Upon wnich ihey all promif-
ed to Hand by him to the l'aft drop of their blood; and who-
ever acted treacheroufly, mould be hanged in chains upon-
the beach. They were all releafed on thefe aflurances;
and then the Captain repaired to Ihe x>%li;sr boar, making his
paflenger Captain of her> and gave him four men well arm-
ed ; while himfelf, his mate, and five more went in the
other boat. By midnight they came within call of the fnip,
when the Captain ordered Robi-nfon to hail her, and tell
them that with great difficulty .they had found the men at
laff. But while (hey were difcomfmg, the C.iptain, his
male, and the reft entered and knocked down the fecond
male and carpenter* fecured thofe tlm were upon deck,
by puttirig them und^r hatches, wmle the other boat's cie*r
entered and fecured the forecaftle ; they men broke into
the round-houfe, where the ma:e, after fome-refidance,, (hot
the pirate captain through the head, upm which all the refb
yielded ihemfelves prifoners, And thus t*e (hip being re-
covered, the jo)ful (ignal wis fired, which 1 heard with
the greateft joy imaginable;- nor was it long before he
brought the (hip to an anchor at the creek's mouth, where
corring to me unawares, "There," fays he, €t my deareft
*< friend and deliverer, there is your (hip, and we are your
** fervants :" a comfort (o unfpeakable, as made me fwoon
in his arm?, while, with gratitude, to heaven, we were ten-
derly embracing each other.
Nothing now remained, but to conf&k what we fhould
do wiih the prifoners, whom he thought it was tt,t fafe to
take on board. Hereupon concerting with-the Captain, I
^iieiTtd myfelf in one of hi* fuils, and fending for them, told
them, that I was going to leave the ilLad with all my pso~
p\r, if they would tarry there, there lives fhould be fpare$?.
rf not, ihey ihould be hanged ai the firft port they came *t;
They agreed to flay. Hereupon I told them my whole flory,
charging them, to be kind to the Spa'iards, that wfre ex-
pected, giving them all my arms, and informing them of every
thing neceffiry for their fubfiftence, after which, I and my
man Friday went on board. But ihe next morning, two of ihe
men came f*vi«mm:ng to the fhip's fide, defining the Captain
to take them oh board, though he hanged them afterwards,
complaining mightily how barbaroufly the other ufed them*
Upon which I prevailed with the Captain to take them in ;
and being feverdy whipt and pickled, they proved more
koneft for the future. And fo J bid farewell to this ifland,
carrying along with me my money, my parrot, umbrella,,
and goat's-fkin cap; fetiing fail December 12, RitHS, after
twenty-eight years, two- months, and ni^etten d-a^sreM-
dence, that fame day and month that I efcaped from Salee,
landing in England June 11, 1687, after Eve and thirty
years abfence from my own country* which rendered mer
altogether a flranger there
Here !• found my fir ft Captains widow alive, who had
buried a fi-cond hitfband, but in very mean circomfiances,
and who'n I made eafy upon his account. Soon after, £
went down to Yorkshire, where a-1 my family was expired,
except two fitters, and as many of one of my bn therY
children. I foo--d ro provitkn had been made for mt,
they eon-clu^ing I had been lon£ fince dead* fo that 1 wa$
but in a very ilerder Itation. Indeed the Capi&rn did mer-
a great kindncfsy.by his report to the owners, howl had
delivered theirfrj-p. vd the D.-fohte Iflard, upon which tl ey^
made m-e a prefent of" 2001. fterlirg. 1 next- went to Lif-
h n, taking my mM Friday with me,.and there arriving it*
April, J met the Portug wefe Captain, who had t^ken me cn/»
board on the African-coaft ; but being ancient, he had lefc
off the fea, and refigned air his buiinefs o his-fcr, who
followed the Brazil trade. So ahcred both of us were* t^ac
we did not kr.ow each o:her at fitrt, till I discovered my--
felf more fu>lly to him1. After a lew embraces^ I b*gan to
inquire o£ my c<: ncerns ; and then the old gentleman told
me, that it was nine years lincer he had been at Brazil,
where my.partrer was then living, but my truftees were
both dead; ihst he believed I Ihould have a good account?
©f the product, of my plantation ; that the imagination. q£,
o t r O'B i n s o' n € rtraw- T ##
my Befng loft, had obliged my truflees to give an eitimate
of my (hare to the procurator fiical, who* in cafe of my not
returning, had: given one-third to the king, and the red to>
the monafrery of St. Auguftine : but if I: pat in my claim,
or any one for me, it wovild be returned, e^cepi the yearly
product which was given to the poor. I then deiired him
to tell me what improvement he thought had been made of
my plantation, and whether he imagined it was wonh my
while to look after it h He anfweredhe did not know how"
much it was improved; but th s he was certain of, that my?
partner was grown vafrly rich upon his half of kj and, that
he had been informed, that the-king had 200 moidores per
annum for his third part. H-e added, that the furvivors of
my truilees were perfons of an ingenuous character; that
my partner could witnefs my title,, my name being regifler*-
ed in the country, by which means I (houJdind-ifpenfably.
recover confiderable fums of money. But, anfweed 1$
how could my truftees difpofe of mv effecl>s, when I made-
you only my heir? This, fa-id he, was true; but, there bet-
ing no affidavit made of my death, he could not act as myt
executor. However he had ordered^ his fnn,, (then at Bra-
zil,) to act by procuration upon my account, and he had*
taken pofleiHon of my fugar-houfe-, having accounted hirrr-
felf for eight years, with my partner and trufrees-for the pro-
fits, of which he would give me a very good account*
And, indeed, this he performed very faithfully in a few
days, making htmfelf indebted to me 470 moidores- of gold,,,
over and above what had been loll at fea, after I had left,
the phce. And then he recounted to^me what misfortune*
he had gone through, which forced my-money out of his
hands, to buy a part in a new (hip: tfBut,? fays he, "yon*
*'fluil not want; take this;, and, when my fun returns,
*' every farthing fh*ll be paid you,"* Ur)bn which he put
into my bands a puife of 150s moidores in gold ; as likewifet
the inftrurmnt, containing the tide to the^ fhip which his-
fon was in, and which, he ofF-red as fecurhy.for the remain-
der. Buc really when I faw fo much goodnefs, generofity>.
tendernefs, and real honefty, I had not the hsart to accept
it, for fear* he Ihonld ftraicenhtm felf upon my account.—
"It is true," faid he, u it may be fa; but then the money
"is yours, not mine, and you may, have the greateft occa-
"Gon for it," However 1 returned fifty of. them back,
again,- pom i-fijn g di at I wo u-1 d 1 r e e I y for give, h Lm the a; her
hundred -when I got my efFe&s into my hands, and; that I
defigned to go myfelf for that purpofe. But he told-me
! he c.uld f&ve me that trouble, and fo caufed me to enter
my name with a public .notary, asiikewife my affidavit^ with
a procuration affixed to it; and this he ordered me to fend
in a leuer lo one of his acquaintance, a merchant; in Bnzit ;
and, indeed, nothing could be. more faithfully and honour-
ably obfcrved,; for, in feven months time, I had a very faith-
fal account of iall mv effects, what furns of money were
raifed, what expended, and what remained for my ufe : In
a word, I found myfeif to be worth 50001. Iterlingjand iOOOll
per annum. Nor was this all; for my partner congratulated
me upon my being alive, telling me how-much my planta-
tion was improved ; what Negroes were at work, and how
many d*ve Marias he had faid to the Virgin Mary for my*
-prefervation, defiring me to accept kindly i'ome prcfents he
had fent me, which I found mowed the greateft generoilty.
Nofooner did the {hip arrive, but I regarded my faith*
ful Captain, by returning him the hundred moidores, and
not o-Jy. forgave h:m all heowed me, but tallowed him yearly.
a hundred more, and fifty to his fon, during their lives. And
now be;ng refolved to go to England, I returned letters of
thanks to the Prior of St. Auguitine, and in particular to my
old partner, with very fuitabJe prefents. By the Captain's
adv'ce, I was perfuaded to go by land to Calais, and there
-take paiTage for England; when as it happened, I got a
young Englifh gentleman, a merchant's fon at Litbon, to ac-
company me, together with two Engltfb and two Portu-
guefe gentlemen; fo ihat with a Portugueie frrvant, an
Knglilh failcr, and my man Friday,, there were nine of us in
number.
rJ hus arnrd and equipped, we fet out, and came to Ma^
dri^, when the fumm'tr decaying we balled to Navarre,
.where we were informed, that there was fcarcely any paf-
flng, by reafonof the prodigious quantity of (now; fo that
we were obligedto abide ne*r twenty days at Pampcluna,
and at lait to take a guide to corducl us-fafe towards Thou-
loufe. And now twelve other gentlemen joining with us,
together with their fervaiits, we tad a very joi-ly company.
Away cur guide led us by frightful mountains, and through
Jo many intricate mazes and wir dings, that we infenfibly
pa fled them, which as wc travelled along, ufliered us into
the profpect cf the fruitful and charming provinces of Lan-
guedec and Gafcony.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical and car
mical. Firft, our guide was encountered by three wolves
and a bear, who fei upon him and h s norfe, and wounded
him in three places j up^n which my man, riding up to frs
affiilancc, thot one of them dead upon the fpot, which
made the other retire into the woods. But the pleafanteft
adventure^was, to behold my man attack the bear. "Pis
fach a creatme, that if you let him alone, he will re-er T
meddle with: you; and this my man very well knew, and
fo begging leave of me in broken Englill), he told us u he
"would make good laugh." uWhy, you filly fool," fajd
I,."he'll eat you up at a mouthful-" '" Hatee me up 1" re-
plied he, by way of fcorn, " me not only ea:ee hirn, but
"make much gocd laugh." Up n which, polling, off his
boots, he claps on his pumps, and ru >ning-af;erth^ monltrous
be.dl, he called out that he wanted to difcourfe with him,
an;i .then throwing flones on purjpofe to-incenfe him4 the
beait turns about in fury, and, with prodig'ous flrides,
fhulHes after himv But though he was not fwifttnoog.lv to
keep up pace wi»h Fridayr~who made up to us as it were
for help ; yet being angryr u Yoo dog," faid i3 6t imrmdi-
** atefy take horfe, and»lec us (hoot tne create/* But he
critd, <(Dear mailer, no (hoot, me make you laugh much."
And8 fo he turned about, making figns to follow, while the
b.ar ran after,- till coming to a-great oak, he afcended in a
minu'e,' Leavtrg. his gun at the bottom of it. Nordidj.he
bear make a-ny difficulty of it, but afcended like a cat, though
his weight was very great,. You mult coniider I was not
a little amazed at the folly of my ma", asnoc perce vingany
tiling to tccslion our laughter, till fucb time as we rode up
nearer and beheld the be.iit mcuated upon the oak,, on the
b^ginnhi^-of the fams bsanch, to which Frday clung at the
f*rr>er endj where ihe bear durlt not come* Hereupon
Friday c ied out, " Now, mailer, me make much laugh; me
make bear dance." 'Upon whicn he fell a fluking, the
bough, which made ne creature louk behind ,him, to fee
how he could retreat. Tnen, as if die bear had underltood
his ftatnmenng Enghm j; " Why jou no come farther, Mr.
"-Bear?-" i\id he, " pray* tMr. Bear, come far here;" and
then indeed we all ouift in o a laughter, efpecially when
we peicewed Friday drop like a fqui rel upon tne ground,
leAv ing the bealt co* make the bell of his way down the tree*
And now thinking it the molt convenient time to (hoot the
creature, Frida\ cried out, **0 dear mafter, no (hoot, me
*'flv>et by and by;'* when taking up the gun, *' me no
*' (hoot yet,*' faid he, ''me make me more much laugh.**
And fccordingly he was as good as his word j for the crea-
ture defcending backward from the tre very leifurely, be-
fore he could lay one fcot on the ground, Friday flmt him
through the ear, (lone dead; ? nd look ng to fee whether
we were pleated, he burft out into a hearty laughter, fay-
ing, '* So we kill de bear in my country, not witn the gun,
•• but with much long arrows." Thus ended our diverfiort
to cur great fatisfaction; efpecially in a ptace where the
terrible howlings hVuck us with a continual terror. Bug
the fnows now growing yrery deep, part«culai\y on the
mountains, the ravenous creature* were then obliged to feek
for fuftenance in the villages ,where coming by furprifecxi
the country'people, k lied feveral of them, btfides a great
number of their fheep and hoifes.
Our guide toM us, we had yet one more dangerous place
to pafs by j and if there were any more wolves in the coun-
try, there we fhould find them. This was a fmall plain,
cncompafTed with woods, to get through a long lane to the
village whe-e we were to lodge. When we entered the
wood, the fun was within half an hour of fetting ; and a
little after it was fet, we came into the plain, wh'ch was
nn above two furlongs over, and then we perceived five
great wolves crofs the road, without taking notice of U5,
ard fo fwift as though they were perfuing after their prey.
Hereupon our guide, bel.eving there were more ccming,
defired us to be upon our ^uard. Accordingly o ;r eyes
were very circumfpc £t, till about half a league farther, we
perceived a dead horfe, and near a d< zen ( i" writes devour-
ing its carcare. My man Friday fain would have fired at
them, but I would not permit him ; nor had we gone half
over (he plain, b;t we heard dreadful howlin-gs in a wood
en cur left, when prefently we faw a hundred come up
againft us, as though they had been an experienced army.
This obliged us to form ourfeives in the beft manner ; ard
then I ordered that every o?her rran fhould fire; and Ihofe
who cid not, might be ready to* give a fecand volley, mould
they advance u,pon; us; and then every man Ihould make
ufe of his piftols. But there was no neceffity for this ; for
the enemy being terrified, flopped,at,the noife of the fire;.
four of them w?re (hot deid, and feveral others being
wounded, went bleeding away, as we could very p'ainly
difcover by the fnow. And now remembering what had
been orten told me, that fuch was the rriajefty of a man's
voice, as to ftrike terror even in the fierceft creatures, I or-
dered all our companions to halloo, as load as pofltble; and
in this notion I was not altogether mid * ken; far they im-
mediately turned about upon the firft hallo?, and began to
retire; upon which, orde ing a feco.-d volley in their
rear, they galloped into the woo'Is with great precipitation.
Thus we had forne fmali time to loid our pieces again,,
and then made all the hafte we could on oar way; but we
had not rode far, before we were obliged to put ourfelves
in a potfure of defence as before* being alarmed with a very
dreadful noiiein the fame wood, on our left hand, the fame
way as we were to pifs, only that it was fome diftance
from us* By this time ihe darkfome clouds bsgan to fpread
over the elemens, and the night growing very duflcy, made
it (o much the more to our difadvantage; but ftill the noife
ircreafinv*, we were fully aflTured that it was the hovlin*
and yelling of thofe ravenous creatures"; when presently
three troops of wolves on our front appeared in fight, as
though a great number of them had a defign to furround us
and devour us in fpite of fate. But as. they did not fail
a^poaussimmediately^ we proceeded oi\our journey in as fwifc
a manner as the ro>dsc would permit out h-jrfes, which was
only a large trot. It was in this manner we travelled, till
fuch a time as we* difcover d another wood, and had the
profpeS of its entrance, through which we were to pafvat
the fart.heft fide of the plain. But, fnrely n-one can expreis
the terror we were in, when, approaching the lane, we per-
eehed a co.filled number of the fierceft wo'ves, ftanding*
as it were, guarding its entrance. Nor weire we long in
this amazemen*, before another oc.cafi;on of horror present-
ed itfetf; for fuddenly we heard the rep.»rt of a gun at ano-
ther op.e ing in the wosd;. and Looking that way,, out ran a
horfebriUed and faddjed, fl/ing with the greateft fwiftnei's*
and no ltfs. than fixccen or (eve nee \ wolves parfuing after
him, in orcJ.er to devour the poor creature ; and unqaettion,-*
ably they d'd fo, af.er they had run Inm down, not being able-
to hold out that fwiftnefs. with w. hi eft he, at Erft efcaoed,
them*
Whence" rode? up1 to that entrance from wherice the horfe
came fo th, 'here ?ay the carcafe of another horfe and two
m4n, mangl d and torn'by thefe devouring wolves: and un-
dbubtHly (n? of thefe men was the perfon who fired the
gun which we had heard, for the piece lay by him ; but,
alas! n oil'' of the upper part of his bo-ly and his head were
entombed in the bowels of thefe ravenous creuures.
What comfe to take, whether to proceed or retreat, we
could not te'l; but it was nA ong before the Woiv^sthem-
felves made Us to come to a resolution : £>r ftch numbers
furround^d us, everyone cf whom <xpected' ttidir prey,
rhat were our bodies to be divided among them, there would"
nor be half a mouthful a-piece. But happy, very happy it
\*-as f r us, that but a little w»y from the tn'rance, there lay
fame very large timber trees, which 1 fu pefed had been
ait down and laid there for Tale ; amongu^ which I drew my
litt'e Imp, placing ourfelves in a line behind o e long tree,
which ferved us for a breaft-work, svh'en delirlng them to
align y we /rood in a triangle, or three fronts, clofing our
bodies* in the centre, the only piac> vvhere we could pre-
fer ve them.
Never certainly was there a more fbricus charge than-
what' the wolves made upon us in th's pjace: and the fight
of the borfes, which were the principal prey they aimed at,
provoked their hunger, and added to theirnatural fiercenefs.
Theycame on us with a mod dreadful no'fe, that made the
woods ring again; and beginning- to mount tre pieces of
timber, ,1 ordered every man to fire, as before directed:
sod* irdeedj fo well did they take their aim, that they ki'led
feveril of the Solves *t the £rft volley; but ftill we were*
obliged to keep a continual firing, by reafori they came on
like devils, pufhing me another with the greateft fury.—
Bui our fecond volley fom'ething abated their c urage, when
{topping a little, we hoped'they would have made the beft-
of their way; however it did not prove fo, for others made
a r.ew attemp- upon us; ani though in four firings .we killed
feveri'een or eighteen of*them, laming twice as many, yet
they fcvrral times fucceffively came on, as though they
valued riot their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to fpend our laft fhot too fuddenly, and
therefore calling my other fervant, and giving him a horn
of powdf r, bid him lay a large train quite along the timbeiy
which he did, wnile Friday was charging my fufeeand his
own, with the greateft dexterity. By trr.s time the wolves
coming up the timber, I fet fire to the train, by fnapping a
difcharjpd piftol clofe to the powder. This fo fcorciied.
and Unified them, that fome fell down, and others jumped
in amorg us; but thefe were immediately difpatciied,
.when all ihe reft, frightened with ths light, which tr-e dark-
fbme night caufed to appear more dreadful, organ at length
to retire ; upon which, ordering our laft piftols to be fired
at once, giving at the fame time a great fhout, the wolves
were obliged to have rccourfe to their fwiftnefs, and turn
tail ; aid then we Tallied out upon twenty lame ones, cut-
ting them in pieces with our (Word?, which obliged them
to howl lamentably, to the terror-of their fellows, who re-
fipned to us the field ?s victorious conquerors. And, in-
deed, I queftion whether Alexander, king ot Macedonia,
jn any of his cotquefts, had more occafion for triumph than
we had ; for he was but attacked with numerous armies of
fpldiers, whereas our little army was obliged to combat a
legl n of devils, as it were, wcrfe than the cannibals, who,
the fame moment they had flain us, would have facrificed
us, to fatisfy their voracious appetites,
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beafls, having
killed threefcore of them, and {.wed our lives from their
fury. We Jlill had a league farther to go, when, as we
went, our ears were faluted with their moft unwelcome
howlings, and we expected every moment another attack.
But, in an hour's time, we arrived at the town where we
were to lodge; and here we found the place ftriclly guard-
ed, and all in terrible ccnfufion, as well they might, for
fear of the bears and wolves breaking into the v',llage,in order
to prey upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, by reafen the other
fell very bad of his wounds* which he had received, as be-
fore mentioned. After we had reached Thouloufe, we
came into a warm, pleafant, and fruitful country, not inferr-
ed with wolves, nor any fort Gf ravenous creatures : and
when we told our ftory there, they much blamed our guide,
for conducting us through the foreft at the foot of the moun-
tains, in fuch a Cevere feafon, when the fnow obliged the
wolves to feek for {he-her in the woods. Wdien we inform-
ed them in what manner we placed ourfelves, and the
horfes in the centre, they exceedingly reprehended us, and
14-2 ItPE AND ADVEM-UfcfcS
fold us, it was a hundred to one but we had been aU de-
£lro>ed ; for tha( it was (he very fight cf the hofes (i heir
fo-tnuch d< fired prey) that made the wolves more ragingly
furious than (hey vsould have been, wh:ch was evident, by
their being at other times really afraid of a gu~; but then
being exceed nglv hungry and furious upon that account,
their eagernefs to come at the horfes made them inferable
of their danger; <and that, if we had not, by a continual
fire, and at laft by the cunning flratagem of the tian of
powder, got the better of them, it had been great odds if
their number had not overpowered us; befides, it was a
great mercy we alighted from cur horfes, and fought them
with that courage and conducl, which had we failed to do,
every man of us, with cur hearts, had been devoured ; end,
indeed, this wss nothing but truth ; for never, in my life,
tvas I i'o fenfible of danger, as when three hundred devils
came roaring upen us, to (hun whofe unwelcome company,
if I was fure to meet a ficrm every week, 1 would rather
go a thoufand leagues by fea.
I thii k 1 have nothing uncommon in my paflape through
France to lake notice of, fjnee other travel ers of greater
learning and ingenuity have given a more amp'e accv unt
than my pen is able to i\ t forth. FromTnou-loufc 1 travel-
led to Paris, from thence to Calais, where I took (hipping,
and landed at Dover the 14-th of January, in a very cold
ieafon.
Thus come to the end of my travel?, I fcon difcovered
my new found eftate, and all the bills of exchange I had
%vere currently paid. The good ancient widow, my only
privy counsellor, thought no pains or care too great to pro-
cure my advantage; nor ha& I ever occalion to blame her
fidelity, which drew from me an ample reward. I was for
leaving my effects in her hands, intending to fet out for
Li/bon, and to the Brazils; but, as in the Dc folate liland,
I had feme doubts about the Romijh religion, fo 1 knew
there was little ercouragement to fettle there, unlefs I
would apoflatize from the crthodcx faith, or live in conti-
nual fear of the Inquifuicn. Upon tjiis account I refolved
to fell my plantation; and, fjx that in ent, 1 wrote to my
old friend at Lifbrn, who returned me an fanfwer to my great
fatisfaction; which was, that he wou'd fell it to good ac-
count; however, if I t.h: tight k convenient to give him li-
berty to offer it in rny ra.nie to the two merchants^ the fur.»
vivors of my truftees, refiding at theBraz'ls, who confequendy
knew its ii.tnpfic value, having lived juft upon the fpot,
and who I was fenilble were very rich, and therefore might
be the more willing co purchafe it, he did not in the leaft
doubt, but that I (h^u'd make four or Eve thoufand pie es
of eight more of it, than I could if I difpofed of it in an/
other manner whatsoever.
You may be fure I could not but agree with this kind and
ingenuous propofal ; and immediately I fent h"m an order
to oiF.r it to them, which he accordingly did ; fo that about
right mo-ths after, the {hip being in that time returned, he
give me a fatis'actory account, that they not only willingly
accepted the offer, but that they had alf> remitted 33,000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of their own at Lifbon,
in order to pay for the purclufe.
Hereupon, *n return, 1 figned the inftrument of (ale, ac-
cording to forn, whJch thry ind fent from Lifbon, and re-
turned it again to my old friend, he having fent me, for my
eftate, bils of three hundred and twenty eight thoufand
pieces of eight, rrfeving the pa)ment of one hundred moi- *
dores per annum, wh'ch I had allowed him during life,
likcwife fifty to his foi during life alfo, according to my
faithful promife, which the plantation was to make good as
a rent charge.
And thus hav:n^ lei my reader to the knowledge of ihe
mst parts of my life, fo remarkable for the many peculiar
p ovidences thac attended it, fl atmg in the ocean of uncer-
tainty and difappointment, of adverfity and profperity,
beginning fjo'ifhly, and yet ending happily ; (Rethinks now
that 1 am come to a fafe and pleafant haven, it is time to
caft out my anchor, aud, laying up my veflel, bid, for a
while, adieu to foreign ad ventures. I had m other concerns
to look a ter, bat the care of my brother's two fons, which,
with the good widow's perfuafkns, obliged me to continue
at home feven years. One of thefe child:en I b ed up a
gentleman, and the other an experienced failor, remarkable
for his courage an3 bravery. Brides this, I married a vir-
tuous young gentlewoman of a very good family, by whom
I had two fons and one daughter. But my dear and tender
wife leaving this earth'y flag*, (3s in tnc feeond part of my
life you will hear,) which rent my foul, as it ware, afunder,
my native country became weary and tireLme to me; and
my nephew happening to come from fea, tempted me to
venture another voyage to th? Baft-Indies, which I did in
the year 169+, at which time I vHi ed mv ifland, and in-
frrr.ed myfelf of every thing lhat happened ilnce my de-
parture.
One mi»ht rrafonably imagine, that what I had fuffered,
together with advanced age, ard the fear of lofi^g, not only
what I had gone*, but my life alfo, might have choked
up all the feeds of ufrlefs ambition and curiofuy, and put
a lafting period to my wandering inclirations. But ss no-
thing but death can fully allay the active part of my life, no
lefs rerrarkab'e for the mary various contingencies of it,
you will next perceive how J vifited my little kingdom,
foW my fucceflors the Spaniards, had an account of the
ufage they met wiih from the Englifhmen, agreeing and
' difagiecing, un ting and feparating, till at fart they were
fubjected to the Spaniards, who yet ufed them very ho-
nourably, together with the wonderful and fuccefiful battles
ever the Indians, who invaded ard inought to have con-
quered the ifhnd, but were repelled bv their invincible
courage and bravery, having taken eleven men and five
women prifoncrs, by which, at my return, I found about
twe< ty young children on my little kingdom Here I ft-id
twenty days, left them fupplies of all neceflary things, as
alfo a carpenter and fmith, and fhared the ifland into parts,
referring the whole property to myfelf. Nor will )ou be
infenfibie, by the account of thefe things, of feveral new
adven(um 1 have been engaged in, ihe ba'.ties I have fought,
the deliverances I have met with : and while, in the fur-
prifing relations of fuch rcma kable occurrences, 1 flial de-
scribe many of Gcd's kindeft pre vidences tome in particu-
lar, no lef^ confpicuous in the fame gocdnefs, power, ard
majefly of our great Creator, ihown one way or other over
the face of the earth, if duly adverted to.
THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
Wherein are contained federal Jlrange and furjirifing accounts
of bis Travels^ and his mofi remarkable Trail/actions both
iy Sea and Land ,• «u itb hit wonderful ^ijion of the Angelic
World.
WHEN we coniider the puiiTant force of Nature, and
what mighty influence it has many tiroes over the temper
of the mind, it will be no fuch great wonder to think,
that my powerful reafon Ihould be overcome by a much
firongcr inclination. My late acquired kingdom ran con.
tinually in my thoughts all the day, and I dreamed of it in
the night; nay, I made it the continual fubjecl of my talk,
even to impertinence, when I was awake. I had fuch va-
pours in my head, that I actually fuppofed myfelf at my
caflle; that I not only perceived Friday's father, the old
Spaniard, and the wicked failors, but that I talked and dif-
courfed with them about their manner of Irving ; that I heard
the things related to me, which I found afterwards to be
too true; and that I executed my judgments with the greatelt
feverity upon the offenders. And, indeed, this anticipating
all the pleafing joys of my life, fcarcely afforded oie one
pleafant hour : my dear and tender wife could not but take
notice of it, which drew thefe affectionate fpetches from
her: «*My dear," faid fhe, "I am really perfuaded that
u fome fecret impulfe from Heaven occafions in you a de-
*' termination to fee the iiland again; nor am 1 Jefs fenfible,
" but >our being engaged to me and thefe dear children, is
** the only hinderance of your departuie. J know, my dear,
"if I v\ere in the grave, you would not long continue at
*'home; prevent net your happinefs on my account, whofe
"only comfort centres in jou. All that 1 can object is, tnat
*;(uch en hazardous undertaking is no way c niitient with
" a perf n of ytur year*; but if ycu ere refolyid to go,"
added Ihe, weeping, " oniy permit me to bear you corn-
(( pan}, and that is ail that 1 de^re-''
Such endeaiing icnderneU, graced with the mod inno-
cent, and yet mod powerful charms, brought me infenfibly
into my right undemanding ; and when 1 confidered all the
G
tranfaclions of my life, and particularly my new engage-
ment ; that I had now one child already born, and my wife
big of another; and that I had no occafion to feek for more
riches, who already was blefled with fufficiency, with maeh
/truggling I altered my refolulions at lafl, refolving to apply
myfelf to fome bufinefs or other, which might put a period
to fuch wardering inclinations. Hereupon I bought a little
farm in the county of Bedford, with a refolution to move
thither; upon this there was a pretty convenient houfe,
furrounded w.th land, very capable of improvement, which
fuited my temper, as to planting, managing, and cultivating.
Nor was I long before I entered upon my new fettlement,
having bought ploughs, arrows, carts, waggons, horfes,
cows, and fheep ; fo that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and as happy in my retirement as the greatell
monarch in the world. And what made me think my
happinefs the greater was, that I was in the middle ftateof
life, which my father had fo often recommended, much re-
fembling the felicity of a rural retirement which is elegantly
defcribed by the post in thefe lines :
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no fnare.
But in the midft of this my happinefs, I was fuddenly
plunged in the greateft forrow that 1 could poffibly endure;
fcr, when I leaft expccled it, my dear and tender wife wa^
forced to fubmit to the irrefiflible power of Death, leaving
this tranfitory life for a beter. It is impoflible f\ r me to
exprefs the beauties of her mind, or the lovelinefs of her
perfon ; neither can I too much lament her lofs, which my
Jatefl breath fhall record; her influence was greater over
me than the powers of my own reafon, the importunities of
friends, the inflruclions of a father, or the melting tears of a
tender and difconfolate mother; in a word, fhe was the
fpirit of all my affairs, and the centre of my enterprizes.—
But now, fince the cruel hand of Deaih had clofed my dear-
ell's eyes, I feemed in my thoughts a fbanger to the world ;
my privy counfellor being gone, I was like afhip without a
pilot, that could only run before the wind. And when I
looked around me in this bufy world, one part labouring
for bread, and the other fquandering away their eftates;
this put me in mind how I had lived in my little kingdom,
where both reafon and religion dictated to me, that there
was foroething that certainly was the reafon and end of life,
which was far fuperior to what could be hoped for on this
fide the grave. My country delights were now as infipid
aad dull, as mufic and fcience to thofe who have neither
tafte nor ingenuity. In fhort, refolving to leave offhoufe-
keeping, I left my farm, and in a few months returned to
London.
But neither could that great city, {a famous for its variety
of entertainment, afford me any agreeable delight,* a flate
of idlenefs I found to be the very dregs of life, and moil
hurtful to body and foul. It was now the beginning of the
year 1684, at which time my nephew (who, as I before ob-
ferved, had been brought up to the fea, and advanced to be
captain of a (hip) was returned from a fhort voyage to Bil-
boa, the iirft he had made in that ftalion. He comes to me
one morning, telling me, that fome merchants of his ac-
quaintance had propofed to him to go a voyage for them to
the Eaii-lndies and China, in the manner of private traders;
*t and now, uncle," fa id he,tf if you'll accompany me thither,
*.' I'll engage to land you upon your own ifland, to viiu the
" flate of your little kingdom."
Juft before he came in, my thoughts were fixed to get a
patent for its poiTeffion, and then to fill it with inhabitants,
After I had paufed a while, and looked fleadfalliy on him,
€<r What devil or fptrit/* faid I, *6 fenc you with this un-
lucky errand?" He ftarted at firft; but recovering him-
felf, when he perceived I was not offended, fi Sir," replied
he, u what I have propofed cannot, I hope, be ftyled un-
lucky, fince certainly you mull be defirous to fee your little
territory, where you reigned with more content than any of
your brother kings in the univerfe."—«« Nephew,51 fad T,
*'if you will Jeave me there, and call for me as you come
back, I care not if I give my conferit:" but he anfvvered,
that the merchants would not allow their vefTel, loaden
with an it-finite value, to return there agaid, which was a
month's fail out of their way ; '• fcx fides* Sir," faid he, " if [
mould nvfearry, was ycur requeft granted, why then you
would be locked up es before." This, indeed, carried a
great deal of reafon in it ; hu*. we found out a remedy, and
thai was to c-rry a frafred (loop on b ard, ready to be fee
up in the ifland, by the a Hi Jh nee of fome ca-pcn*ers, which
we ftiould carry with us, \hat might be fiUed in a few days,
G2
to £0 to Tea. I was rot long in forming- my resolution,
which cverfwayed mv gcod friend, the widow's, perfuafiouR,
and ihe natural affeclicn I bnrc to my young children. I
made my will, and fettled my eflate in fuch a manner, that I
\v?.s perfectly fure my poor infan's would have juftice done,
them. The good widow rot rnly undertook to make pro-
vifion fa-- my voyage, but alfo tock the charge of my do-,
metfic affairs, and to provide for my children's education ;.
nnd indeed Ho rrother could take more care, or underftood
the office, better ; for which I lived to reward and retura
her my hearty thanks. ' l
The beginning of January, 1694-5, my nephew being
readv to fail, I and Friday went on board in the Downs on
the 8th, having, befides that fJoop already mentioned, a
veiy confiderab'e car^o for my new colony. Firfl, I had
fome Servants, whom L propofed to leave there, as they
fhould appear willing ; there were two carpenters, a fmith,
and a very ingenious fellow who was Jack-of-all-trades ; for
he was not only a cooper by trade, bur alfo was dexterous at
making wheels, and hard-mills to grird corn, bkewife a
good turner, and a good pot-maker. I alfo carried a tailor,'
who confenied to flay in my plantation, and proved a moil
necefTary fellow in the iHand. As to my cargo, it confiited
of a fufficient quantity of linen, and Englifh fluffs for cloth-
ing the Spaniards that I expected to find there ; as likewife
gloves, hats, uhoes, (lockings ; trgeiher with beds, bedding,
*nd houfehold iluff, efpecially kitchen utenfils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, brafs, &c. alfo nails, tools of all forts,
flaples, hocks, hinges, and all other things neceffary; all
which, I think, cofl me about three hundrtd pounds. Nor
was this all; for I carried a hundred fpare arms, mufkets,
and fufees, befides fome piflols, a considerable quantity of
feveral forts of ihot, two brafs cannon, befides fwords,
cutlalfes, and the iron part of fome pikes and halberts. I
made my nephew take with us two fmall quarter-deck
guns, more than he had occafion for in his (hip, to leave be-
hind, if there was a neceflity; fo that we might build a
fort there, and man it againir. all oppofers vvhatfoever.
Well, vve put out to fea ; arrd though I can't fay this
voyage was fo unprofperous as my others had been, yet
contrary winds drove us fo far northward, that wc were
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay
wind-bound two and twenty days. Here, indeed, our pro*
vifions were very cheap, and we added to our fhip's fiores
by taking feveral live hogs, two cows and calves, which I
then refolved to put on Shore in my ifla-nd, if our neceflhies
did noc cali for them. On the 5th of February we failed
from Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lafted for fome
days ; and i think it was about the 20;h of the fame month,
late in the evening, when the mate informed us, that he
faw a nafh of lire, and heard a gun fired ; and when he was
fpeaking, a boy came in and told us, that the boatfwain had
heard another. Upon which we all ran to the quarter-deck,
from whence, in a few moments, we perceived a terrible
fire a: a dirtance. We had immediately recourfe lo our
reckoning?, in which we were all of opinion, that there
could be no land that way, it appearing to be ac N. N. W%
Hereupon we concluded that fome {hip had taken lire at
fca, and that it could not be far off, by the report of the
guns which we had heard. We made up directly to it, and
in half an hour's time, ihe wind being fair, we could plainly
perceive a great fhp on fire, in the amldle of the fea.—>
Touched with this unhappy difa'ler, and considering my
former circumflances, when the Ponuguefe Captain too.^:
me up, I immediately ordered five £>uns to be fired, that the
poor creature*, not feeing us, it being dark, (though we
could perceive their dame,) might be fenfible there was de-
liverance at hand, and consequently might endeavour to
fave themfelves in their boat. Nor was it long before the
fhip blew up in ihe air, and the fire was exunguilhed in
the ocean. But fuppoiing them all to be in the r boats, we
hung out our lanterns, and kept firing till ei^ht o'clock in
the mcrning ; when, with our perfpectives, we bene d two
boats full of people, making towards us, though the tiie was
agninft trem : then Spreading out our ancient, and hanging
out a waft, ss a Signal for them to come on board, in haif
an hour's time we c^me up whh them, and took thenfall in,
there being bo lefs than fixty-four men, women, and child-
ren. It was a French merchant (hip of three hundred tons,
hoTe-ward bound from Quebec in the river of Canada.—
The mailer ink rmed me how, by the negigence of the
ileerfman, the (teerage wjls fee on fire : trat, at ms cuter/
for help, the fire was, as he thought, lotaliy ex;ingui(hed ;
bat that fome fpirks geci^g beUee.i tne limber and within
the ceiling, it proceeded imo the hold, wncra there was no
refilling it j and then Uey got into the-r boats, as creatures
G 3
in the laft extremity, with what provifion thty had, together
with cars, fails, and a compafs, intending to go back to
Newfoundland, the wind blowing at S. E. and by E, thought
there were feveral chances again!* them, as ftorms to over-
fetand founder ibem, rains and colds to benumb and periifi
their limbs, and contrary winds to keep them back and
fhrve them ; but, faid he, in this our great diftrefs, we
heard the welcome report of your guns, when, with unfpeak-
able joy, taking down our mails and fails, we were refolved
to lie by till morning; btlt perceiving your light, we, fet
cur oars at work, to keep our boat a-head, the fooner to
attain your fhip, the happy inftrument of our deliver*
a nee.
Indeed no one can exprefs the joy of thefe poor crea-
tures on t?»is occ^fion ; ie&r and grief are eafily fet forth ;
fjghs and lears, with a few motions of the hands and head,
are all the demonstrations of thefe paffions; but an excefs
of joy carries in it a thoufand extravagances; efpecially,
I think, among the French, whofe temper is allowed to be
more volatile, pafiionate, fprightly, and gay, than that of
other nations. Some were weeping, tearing themfelves in
the greateft agonies of forrow, and running fta^k mad about
the ,fhip, while the reft were damping with their fee£
wringing their hand.*, \finging, laughing, fwooning a#ay,
vomiuing, fainting, with a few returning hearty thanks to
the Almighty, and croffing themfelves. I th'nk, if I am
»ot miftaken, our furgeon was obliged to let thirty of them
blood. But amoi.g the paiTengers, there were two prieiis,
the one an old, and the other a young man; but what amazed
rne more was, that the oldeft was in the worft plight; for
no fjoner did he perceive himfelf freed from danger, but he
dropped dowr, as it were, without life, 2nd to every one's ap-
pearance quite dead ; but the furgeon chafing and rubbing
his arm, opened a vein, which at firft dropped, and then
flowing more freely, the old man began to open his eyes,
ard in a quarter of an hour was well again. But foon re-
membering this happy change, the joy of which whirled his
blocd about fafter than the vefTels could convey it, he be-
came fo feveriib, as made him more fit for bedlam than any
other place; but the furgeon giving him a fleeping dofe,
he was perfectly compofed the next morning.
Remarkable, indeepl, was the behaviour of the young
prieih At his entrance on board the fhip, he fell on his face
Sn the mod humble proftration to the Almighty. I thought*
indeed, he had fallen into a fwoon, and fo ran to help him
up ; but he modeftly told me, he was returning thanks to
the Almighty, defiring me to leave him a few moments*
and that, next to his Creator, he would return me thanks
aifo. And indeed he did fo, about three minutes after, vviih
great ferioufnefs and affection, while the tears flood in his
eyes, which convinced me of the gratitude of his foul. Nor
did he lefs ihow his piety and wifdom, in applying himfelf
to his country people, and labouring to compofe them, by
the moft powerful reafons, arguments, and perfusions.—
And when, indeed, thefe people had taken their night's re»
pofe, in fuch lodgings as our fhip would allow, we found
nothing bat the belt of manners, and the moft civil acknow-
ledgments, for which Lhe French are eminently remarkable.
The next day the Captain and one of the prielts deiired tjt
fpeak with me and my nephew the commander, They
toid us, that they had faved fome mcney ar.d valuable things
out of the ruined veifel, which was at cur fervice; only
that they defired to be fet on more fome where in our way.
At the fir^Diy nephew was for accepting the money ; but
I (who knew how hard my cafe would have been, had the
Portuguese Captain ferved mefo) perfuaded him to the con*
trary j an$ therefore told them, that as we had done nothing
but what (we were obliged to do, by nature and humanity,
and what we ourfclves might expect from others in fuca
calamity, fo we took them up to fave them, not to plunder
them, or leave them naked upon the land, to perilh for
want of fubfiftence, and therefore would not accept their
money : but as to landing them, that was a great difficulty;
for being bound to the Eaft Indies, it was impoffible wil-
fully to change our voyage upon their particular account,
nor could my nephew (who was under charter-party to
purfue it by way of Brazil) anfwer it to the freighters.—
All that we could do, was to put ourfelves in the way of
meeting fome (hips homeward-bound from the Weft Indies,
that, if pcflible, they might get a paflage to France or
England. Indeed, they were very thankful for our firlt
kindnefs; but weje under great concern, efpecialiy the
pafiengers, at their being carried to the Eaft Indies. They
begged, therefore, t would keep on the banks of Newfound-
land, where probably they might meet with fome fhip or
{loop, to carry them to Canada, whence they came. As
G 4
this vvas but a reafonable requeft, I was inclined to grant it,
iince it was no breach of-charter-party, and the Jaws of God
and nature obliged us to do what good we could to our
feliow-creaturcsj and beiides the danger we ourfelves
fhould be in for want of provificns: fo we confenled to
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would
permit; if rot, that we mould carry them to Martinico in
the Weft Indies. But, as it happened, in a week's time
we made the1 banks of Newfoundland, where the French
people hired a bark to carry them to France. But the young
prieft being defirous to go to the Eaft Indies, I, readily agreed
to it, becaufe I liked his converfation, and two or three of
tie French fa'lors alfo entered themfelves on board our fhip.
Now, directing our courfe for the Weft Indies, Herring
S. and S. by E. about twenty days, with little wind, ano-
ther adventure happened to exfrcife cur humanity, fn the
latitude of 27 degrees, 5 minutes north, the 19th of March,
1694-5, we i perceived a fail, (our courfe S. E. and by S.)
which bore upon us, and then (he appeared to be a large
vefle!, having loft her main tr<p-maft and boltfprit; when
firing a gun as a figral of diftref?, wind N, N. \V. we foon
came tofpeak with her. She was a fhip from Briftol, bound
home from Barbadoes, out of which road me had been forced
in a hurricane to the weflward, in which they left their
mails.
They told us, their expectations were to fee the Bahama
iflands, but were driven away by a ftrong wind at N. N. W.
and having no fails to work the fhip with, but the main-
courfe, and a kind of a fquare fail upon a jury fore-maft,
becaufe they could not come near the land, were endeavour-
ing lo ftand for the Canaries: nay, what was worfe, befides
all their fatigu?, they were almoft ftarved for want of pro-
vifion, having ate nothing for eleven days; all that they had
aboard was fugar, a barrel of frefh water, and feven cafks
of rum. In this (hip were paflengers, a youth, his mother,
and a maidservant, who were in a mod deplorable condition
for want of food. If I had not gone on board their fhip,
the knowledge of their mifery had been concealed from me,
and they would have inevitably pcrifhed, though, indeed,
their fecond mate who was Captain, by reafon the,true
Captain was not on board when the hurricane happened,
hed before informed me that there were fuch perfons on
board, whom he fuppofed to be dead, being afraid to inquire
after them, becaufe he had nothing to give them for relief*
Hereupon we refolved to let them have whst we could
fpare, ordering the mate to bring fame of his men on board
us, which he did accordingly: as he and ihey icoked tike
fkeJetons, when meat was ict before them 1 ordered them
to eat fparingly. But, however, they foon fell iick ; which
obliged.the furgecn to mix fomething in their broth, which
was to be to them both food and phyfic. When they weie
fed, we ordered our mate to carry them a fack of bread,
and fcur or five pieces of beef , but the furgeon charged
them to fee it boiled, and keep a guard on the cook-room,
to prevent the men from eating it raw, and confcquently
killing themfelves with what was defigned for their relief.
But, particularly, I defired the mate to fee what condition
the poor paiTengers were in, and the furgeon gave him a
pitcher of thefame broth which he had prepared for the
men. And being curious to fee this fcer.e cf mifejy myfelf,
1 took the Captain (as we called the mate of the ihipj in
our own boat, and failed afcer them.
Here was a fad fight indeed ! fcarce were the victuals
half boiled in the pot, but they were ready to break open
the cook-room door. To flay their ftomachs, the mate o-ave
them bifcuits,. which were dipped and fattened with the
liquor of the meat, which they call brwfe ; tel'ing them it
was for their own faiety, that he was ob iged to give them
but a little at a time; and fo fteuirg them gradually, their
bellies were comfortably filled, and the men did very uell
again. But when- they came to the poor gentlewoman i.t
the cabin, who for faveral days hademtinutd without food,
giving what (he had to her fr.n, they found her, as it were,
30 the Arras of death. She was fitting u ^ :n the-floor f f die
deck, witn her back up agatrlt tr.e ftd-s, between two
chairs, -which were lathed Lit, and her head fhrunk be-
tween her (houictrs, like a fcn.'elefs corpfe. Nothing was
wanting in nv. nute Co revive and encourage her ; (opening
her lips, and putting fome br\ fh :n*o her mouth with a (ooov..
But not havu.g Ibength to fpeak, hie lifted up her'head
with much difficulty, inimating that it was now too late;
at the- fame tunc pointing to trie ycuth, hrr fort, as though
(he delired^ him to do what he cculd to iave the lad ; and,
in a little time after, the died.
The youth, indeed, was na fo far gore, yet lay flrefcherl
oat on the cabin bed, like one ilwt had fcarce a ay ld\\ In
Go
his mouth was a piece of an old glove, the reft of which he
had ate up. At firft he vomited what the mate had given
him ; but at length began fenfibly to revive, though in the
greateft concern for-the death of his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, ftie lay by her miftrefs, like one in
the lad pangs of death : her limbs were diftorted, one of her
hands was clafped round the frame of a chair, which fhe
jgrafped (o hard, that it was with fome difficulty we fepa-
rated her from it; her other arm lay over her head, and her
feet lay both together, fet fad againft the frame of the cabin
table; not only being ftarved with hunger, but overcome
with grief at the lofs of her miflrefs, whom me loved mort
tenderly. It was a great while before the furgeon could
bring her io life, and a much longer time before fhe came
to her fenfes.
After we had failed with them fome days, we fent them
£vt barrels of beef, one of pork, two hog (heads of bifcuit,
with pea?, flour, and other things ; taking three calks of
fugar, feme rum, and feme pieces of eight as payment, we
left them, but took the youth and maid with us, with all
their goods. The lad was about feventeen years old, very
handfome, modeir, fenfibie, and well-bred, but mightily
concerned for the lofs cf his honoured mother, having loft
his father at Barbadoes but a few morths before. He be»-
feeched the furgeon to intercede with me to take him out
of the /hip ; for that thefaiJors, by notfparinga fmallfufte-
nance, had ftarved his mother. But hunger has no bound?,
no right, and confequently is incapab'e of any companion.
When the furgeon told him, our voyage might put him in
bad circumfhnces, and farther from his friends, he faid he
did not care, if he was delivered from that terrible crew;
that as the Captain (meaning me) had faved him from death,
fo he was fure he would do him no harm ; and, as for the
maid, when fhe was reflored to her fenfes, fhe would be
no le's thankful, let us carry them where we would. And
indeed the furgeon fo reprefented their cafe so me, that I
confented, and took ihem en board, with all their goods,
except eleven hogfheads of fugar $ but the ycuth having a
bill c f hiding, I made the Commander oblige himfelf to de-
liver a letter and the deceafed widow's goods to Mr. Rogers,
a me/chant in Briftol ,• but I believe the ih'p was loft at fea,
for we never could bear what became of her afterwards.
We were now in latitude J9 deg. 32 min. having as yet a
tolerable good voyage But, paffing by feveral little incidents
relating to wind and weather/*! mail relate what is mod re-
markable concerning my little kingdom, to which I was
then drawing near. I had great difficulty in finding it, for
ss I came to, and went from it before, on the fouth and eail
iide of the ifland, as coming from the Brazils, fo now ap-
proaching between the main and the ifland, not having any
chart of the coaft, nor land mark, it obliged us to go on
fhore on fevcrai iflands in the mouth of the river Orconoko,
but to no purpofe. Thus I perceived, that what I thought
was a continent before, was no fuch thing, but a long ifland,
or rather a ridge of fands. On one of thefe iflands I found
fome Spaniards, but they belonged to the ifle de Trinidad,
who came hither in a flocp to make fait, and try to find
fome pearl mufcles. But at length I came fair on the
fouth-fide of lay iiland, and then I prefe-ntly knew the
countenance of my little kingdom : fo we brought the fhip
fafe to an anchor, brcadf;de within the creek, where flood
my ancient and venerable cattle.
Kb fooner did I fee the place, but calling for-Friday, I,
aflted him where he was; But when he looked a little, he
clapped his bands, c-rying, ** O jcy, O there, O yes, O
there !" pointing to our old abode, and then fe!l a dancing,
and capering as if he was mad, and I had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the fea, to fwim afhore, *«• Friday/*
faidl;<s what do you think, fhall we go to fee ycur father?"
At the mentioning his father's name, the pcor affe&ionate
creature fell a weeping : <s No, no," fays he, ume fee him
no more, never fee poor father more i he long ago die, die
long ago ; he much old man." <* You donH know that/*"
faid I; <e but fhall we fee any body elfefHe looks about,
and pointing to the hi'i above my houfe, cries out, tc We
fee, we fee there much men and there;" whichj^though I
could not perceive them with my perfpcclive glafs, was
true, by what the men themfelves told me the next day.
When the EngliQi ancient was fpread, ard three guns
iired, as a fignal of friendfhip, we perceived~a fmcke rife
from the creek; up:n which I ordered the boat out, taking.
Friday with me, and hanging out a white flag of truce, f
went on fhore, accompanied alfo by tVe young friar, to
whom I had related the hiilory of the firft part o-i my hfe ;
befides, we had fixteen men well, armed, in cafe wexhsd
met with any tppofuiwn.
G 6-
After we had rowed dire&ly into the creek, the firfr. man
|. fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard, whofe life I had
faved, and whefe face I perfectly well knew. I ordered
them all to flay in the boat for a while ; but Friday, per-
ceiving his father at a diflance, would have jumped into the
fea, had they not let the boat go. No fooner was he on
ihore, but he flew like a fwift arrow out of a bow to em-
brace his aged father. Certainly it would melt a man of
the firrheft refolution into the foftefi tears, to fee with what
uncommon tranfports of joy he faluted him ; he firft killed
him, then flroked his face, took him in his arms, laid hint
under a fhady tree, fat down by him, then looked as ear-
vtttly at him, as ore would do at a piclure, for a quarter of
an hour together. After this he would lie upon the grcund,
ilroke his legs and kifs them, then get up and Mare at him,
as though he was bewitched : but the next day one could
not forbear laughter to fee his behaviour; for he would walk
feveral hours wiih his father along the fhore, leading him
by the hand, as though he was a lady ; while, every now and
then, he would run to the boat to get fomething for him,
as a Jump of fupar, dram, bifcuit, or fomething or other thac
was gcod. His frolics ran in another channel in the after-
noon ; when he fet old Friday on the ground, he would
dance round him, making comical poftures and gefture*;
and all this while would be telling him one llory or another
of his travels a; d adventures.
It was on the 10th of April, anno 1695, that Ifttmy
foot upon the ifland a fecond time. When my faithful
Spaniard, accompanied by one more, approached the boat,
he Hftie knew who I was, till ] di'covered myfeJf to him.
'* Seignior," faid J, in Port <gr;efe, " den't you know me?"
He fpoke never a word, but giv'tig his mufket to his a;tend-
ant, ex'enred his arms, and faying fomething in Spanilh.
that 1 did rot then underiiand, he came forward and em-
braced me, faying, he was inexcufable not to know his de-
liverer, who, like an angel Tent from heaven, had faved his
"life. He then beckoned to the man to call out his com-
panions ; afked me if I would walk to my own habitation,
and take pofTeffion, where I mould find ft me mean im-
provements; hut indeed they were extraordinary ones; for
they had planted fo many trees fo clofe together, that the
place was like a IabyiintH, v.h:ch rone could find out ex*
ctpt themfelves, who knew its intricate windings, 1 alked
him the meaning of all thefe fortifications? he told roe he
would give a large account of what had pafled fince my
departure till this time, and how he had fuhdued fome Eng-
lifh, who thought to be their murderers, hoping I would
not be difpleafed, fince necefiity compelled them to it.—
As I knew they were wicked villains, fo I told him, that I
was not only far from finding fault with it, but was rather
heartily glad that they had fubdued them. While we were
thus talking, the man whom he fent, returned, accompanied
by eleven more, but in fuch habits, that it was impoffible
to tell what nation they were of. He firfl turned to me,
and pointing to them, "Thefe, Sir," faid he, "are fome of
the gentlemen who owe their lives to your goodnefs;" then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made (hem fenfi-
ble who I was; and then indeed they faluted me one by-
one* not as ordinary men, but as though ihey had been am-
bafladors or noblemen, and I a triumphant conqueror; for
their behaviour not only agreed with a manlike, majeflic
gravity, but at the fame time was fo obliging and courteous,
as made them agreeable to the lad degree.
Before I relate the hillory of the tranfactions of my king-
dom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own mouth, I muft
here infert what I omitted in my former relation. The
matter is this : Juft befoe we weighed anchor and fet fa'l,
there happened a quanel on board the (hip, which had like to
have occafioned a fecond mutiny, till fuch time as the cou-
rageous Capta'n, taking two of the moll refractory prifoners,
laid them in irons, threatening, as they were concerned in
the former difoiders, to have ihem hanged in England for
running away with* the fhip. This frightened fome of the
reft, as thinkmg the Captain would ferve them in the
fame manner, though he feemed to give them good words
fur the prefenr. But the mate having intelligerce of this,
rrade me acquainted with their fears; fo that, to make
them more eaf), and ourfelves more fafe frtm their conlpi*
raeies, I was ob.iged to go down, ard pafs my homur's
word fcr ic, that upon their good behaviour, ail that was
pall mould be ftrgiven; in teliimo^y cf which, I ordered
ths two men's iro> s to be lakeo cfF, and themfelves for-
given. Bui as this had brought us to an anchor at night,
in w.'iich there v\as a calm, the (wo rren that had been in
irons, fttle each of them a mufket, and fome other Weapons,
and taking the (hip's pirnace, not yet hauled up, ran away
to their brother rogues. The next morning we Tent the
]ong>boat9 with men to purfue them, but all in vain j the
mate, in revenge, would have demolifhed my little caiile,
burnt its furniture, and deftroyed their plantations, buc
having no orders for it, he did not put it in execution,—
And thus theVe were five Englishmen in the ifland, which
caufed great differences, as my faithful Spaniard gave me a
perfect account of, in the following manner^
*' You cannot, Sir, but remember the embafly you fen^
me about, and what a difappointment we met with, by your
abfence, at our return. There is but little variety in the
relation of all our voyage, beirg bleiTed with calm weather,
and a fmooth fea. Great indeed was the joy of my coun-
trymen to fee me alive, having acted as the principal man
on board, the Captain cf the fhipwrecked veilel dying before;
nor was their furprife lefs, as knowing I was taken prifoner
by the favages of another nation, they had thought me long
iince entombed in their monflrous bowels. But when I
iliowed them the arms, ammunition, and provifions 1 had*
brought for them, they looked upon me as a fecond Jofeph.
advanced in Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to
come alcng with me. Indeed they were obliged to trefpafs
upon their friendly favages, by borrowing two of their
Canoes, under a pretext for fifhing; and they came away
the next morning, but withcut any provifions of their own,,
except a few roots, which ferved them inflead of bread.-^
After three weeks abfence, we arrived at our habitation*
Here we. met with thiee Englifh fai'ors, who, I confefs,.
gave us p>oviiior,s, and that letter of direction you had left
for us, which informed us how to bring up tame goats, plat.t;
corn, cure grapes, make pots, and, in fhorf„ every thing,
that was necefTary for our ufe. As, in particular, I knew
your method belt, fo taking Friday's father to aifift me, we
managed all the affairs; nor were the reft of the Spaniards
wanting in their kind offices, dreffing Food for ihe Englifh-
men, who did nothing but ramble and divert themfehes in
the woods, either mooting parrots, or catching tortojfcs.
But we had not been long afhore, before v\e were informed
of two Englishmen, unnaturally turned out of their com-
mon place of refidence, by the three others above-mention-
ed ; this made my Spaniards and me (whom they now
looked upon as their governor in your abfence) endeavour to
perfuade them to take them in, that we might be as one family $
but all our entreaties were in vain, Co that the poor fellows
finding nothing to be done without induftry, pitched their
teittson the north fide of the ifland, a little inclining to the
well, for fear of favages, Here they built two huts, one to
lodge, and theother to lay their If ores in; for my good natur-
ed Spaniard giving them fome feeds, they dug and planted
as I had done, and began to live prettily. But while they
were thus comfortably going on, the three unnatural brutes,
their countrymen, in a mere bullying humour, infuked them,
by faying, the governer (meaning you) had given them
poiTeiTion of the ifland, and d—mn 'em they fhouid build no
houfes upon their ground, without paying rent. The two
honeft men (for fo 1st me now diftinguifh them) thought their
three countrymen only jelled, and oneofthsm invited them
in, to fee their fine habitations; while the other facetioufly
told them, that fince they built tenements with great im-
provements, they fhouid, according to thecuftom of lords,
give them a longer leafe; at the fame time defiring them to
fetch a fcrivener to draw the writings. One of thefe
wretches fwearing he fheuld pay for the jeft, fnatches up a
fire-brand, and clapping it to the omfide of their hut, very
fairly fet it on fire, which would foon have cenfuraei it,
had not the honeft man thruft him away, and trod it out
with his feet, Hereupon the fellow returns with his pole,
with which he^ would have ended his days, had not the
poor man avoided the blow, when fetching his mufeet, he
knocked down the villain that began the quarrel. The
other two coming to affift their fellow, obliged the honed
man to lake his mufket alfo, and both of them prefenting
their pieces, bid the villains ftand off; and if tbey did not
Jay down their arms, death fhouid decide the difpute one
way or other* This brought them to a parley, in which
they agreed to take their wounded man and be gone ; but
they were in the wrong that they did not difarm them when
tbey had the power, and then make their comp^nt to me
and my Spaniards forjuftice, uhich might have prevented
their farther defigns againft them. And, indeed, fo many
trefpaffes did they afterwards commit, by treading down
their corn, fhooting their young kids and goa;s, and plagu-
ing them night and day, that they refolved to come to my
caiiir, challenge a!l the three, and decide their nght by one
plain battle, while the Spaniards flood by to fee f3ir play.
One day it happened, that two of my Spaniards ^one of
tvhom underftood Englifh) being in the woods, were met
by one of the honeft men, who complained how barbarous
their countrymen had been in deftroying their corn, killing
their milk-goat, and three kids, which deprived them of their
fubfiftence ; and that if we did not grant them relief, they
mull be inevitably flarved, and fo they parted; but when>
my Spaniards came home at night, and fuppcr being on the
table, one of them began to reprehend the Englishmen, but
in a very mannerly wayj which they refenting, repliedr
** Whatbufinefs had their countrymen in that place without
leave, when it was none of their ground ?" " Why," faid
my Spaniard, calmly, " Inglife, they mufl not ftarve;" but
they replied, " Let them ftarve, and be damn'd, they mould
neither plant nor build; and damn them, they mould be
their fervants, and work for them, for theifland was theirs,
and they would burn all the huts they fhould find in the
iflancl.,> "By this rule," faid my Spaniard, fmiling, " We
fhall be your fervants too." "Aye, by G—d, and fo you
mall," replied the impudent rafcal. Upon which, ftaning
up, Will Atkins cries, "Come, Jack, let's have t'other
brufli with them, who dare to build in our dominions!"—
Thus leaving us fomething heated with juft paflion, away
they trooped, every man having a gun, piftol, and fword^
muttering force threatening words, that we could then but
imperfectly underftand. That night they defigned to mur^
der their two companion?, and flept till midnight in the
bower, thinking to fall upon them in their fleep; nor were
the honeft men lefs thoughtful concerning them ; for at this .
juncture they were coming to find them our, but in a much
fairer way. As foon as the villains came to the huts, and
found nobody there, they concluded that land my Spaniard
had given them notice, and therefore fwore to be levenged
on us. Then they demolilhed the poor men's habitations ;
not by fire as they attempted before, but pulled down their
houfes limb from limb, not leaving flick or ftone on the
ground where they Hood, broke ir-eir h ufehold fluff in
pieces, tore up their trees, fpoiled their enclofure, and, in
fhorr, quite ruined ti em of every thing they had. Had
thefe people met together, no doubt but there would have
been a blcody battle; but Providence ordered it for the
better; for jo ft as the three were got together, the two
were at our caflle; and when they left us, the three came
back again, but in great rage, fcoffingly telling us what
they had done; when one taking hold of a Spaniard's har,
twirls it round, faying, "And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard,
fhall have the fame fauce, if you don't mend your manners."
My Spaniard, a grave but courageous man, knocked him
down with one blow of his fift; at which another villain
fired his piftol, and narrowly miffed his body, but wounded
him a little in the ear. Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes
up the fellow's mufket whom h« had knocked down, and
would have Ihot him, if I and the reft had not come out,
and taken their arms from every one of them.
"Thefe Englishmen perceiving they had made all of us
their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstanding their
bitter words, the Spaniards would not return them their
arms aeain, telling them they would do them no manner of
harm, if they would live peaceably ; but if thev offered any
injury to the plantation or calile, they would moot them as
they would do ravenous beafts. This made them fo mad,
tint they went away raging like furies of hell. They were
no fooner gone, but in came the two honeft men, fired with
the juftefr. rage, if fuch can be, having being ruined as afore-
faid. And indeed it was very hard, that nineteen of us
mould be bullied by three villains, continually offending
with impunity,
c< It was a great while, Sir, before we could perfuade the
two Englimmen from purfuing, and undoubtedly killing
them with their fire-arms; but we promifed themjuiiice
fhould be done them; and, in the mean time, they fliould
refide with us in our habitation. In about Eve days after,
thefe three vagrants,almoft ilarved with hunger, drew near
our grove, and perceiving me, the governor, and two others
walking by the iide of the creek, they very fubmillively
deli red to be received into the family again. We told
them of their great incivility to us, and of their unnatural
barbarity to their countrymen ; but yet we would fee what
the reft agreed to, and in half an hour's time would bring
them word. After fome debate, we called them in, where
their two countrymen laid a heavy charge againit them,
for not only ruining, but defigning to murder them, which
Ihey could not deny. But here I was forced to interpofe
as a mediator, by obliging the two Englifhmen not to hurt
them, being naked and unarmed ; and that the other three
ftiould make them refutation, by building their two huts,
and fencing their ground in the fame manner as it was be-
fore. Well, being in a miferable condition, they fubmitted
to this at prefent, and lived fome time regularly enough,
except as to the working part, which they did not care for,
but the Spaniards would have difpenfed with that, had they
continued eafyand quiet, Their arms being given them
again, they fcarce had them a week when they became as
troublefome as ever; but an accident happening foon after,
obliged us to lay afide private refentraents, and look to our
common prefervation.
€t One night, Sir, [ went to bed, perfectly well in health,
and yet by no means could I compofe myfelf to fleep; upon
which, being very uneafy, I got up and looked out, but it
being dark, 1 could perceive nothing but the trees around
the caflle. I went to bed again, but it was all cne, I could
not fleep; when one of my Spaniards hearing me walk
about, afked who was up ? I anfwered, " It is I.'* Wbea
I told him the occafion, " Sir," faid he, "fuch things are
not to be flighted ; for certainly there is fome mifchief plow
ting againft us." '* Where are the Englifhmen ?" faid I.
He anfwered, <r Fn their huts; for they lay feparate from
usj Sir, fince thejaft mutiny." "Well," faid I, " fome
kind fpirit gives this information for advantage. Come let
us go abroad, and fee if any thing offers to juftify our fears."
Upon which I and fome of my Spaniards went up the moun-
tain, not by the ladder, but through the grove, and then we
were ftruck with a panic fear on feeing a light, as though
it were a fire, at a very little diftance, and hearing the
voices of feveral men. Hereupon we retreated immediate-
ly, and raifed the reft of our forces, and made them fenfible
of the impending danger; but with ail my authority, 1 could
not make them May where they were, fo earneft were they
to fee how things went. Indeed, the darknefs of the night
gave them opportunity enough to view them by the light of
the fire, undifcovered. As they were in different parties,
and- ftraggling over the fhore, we were much afraid that
they fhould find out our habitations, and deflroy our flecks
of goats; to prevent which, we fent immediately an Eng-
lifhman and two Spaniards to drive the goats into the val-
ley where the cave lay ; or, if there was occafion, into the
cave itfelf: As to ourfelves, renaming our native courage
and prudent con duel, had we not been divided, we durft
venture to attack a hundred of them; but before it was
very light, we refolvcd to fend out Friday's father as a fpy,
who, immediately Gripping himfelf naked, gets among them
un discovered, and in two hours time, brings word, that they
were two parties of two different nations, who lately having
a bloody battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance in the fame ifland, to devour their miferable pri-
foners; that they were entirely ignorant of any perfons
inhabiting here; but rather being filled with rage and fury
againft one another, he believed, that as foon as day-light
appeared, there would be a terrible engagement. Oid Fri-
day had fcarce ended his relation, when we heard an un-
common noife, and perceived that there was a horrid en-
gagement between the two armies.
"Such was the curiofity of our party, efpecially the Eng-
limmen, that they would not lie clofe, though Old Friday told
them their fafety depended upon it; and that if we had
patience, we mould behold the favages kill one another.
However they ufed fome cautioo, by going farther into
the wood?, and placing themfelves in a conveni*nt place to
beheld the battle.
" Never could there be a more bloody engagement, or
men of more invincible fpirits and prudent conducl, ac-
cording to their manner and way of fighting. Uiaftednear
two hours, till the party which was nearer our caftle began
to decline, ard at laft to fly from their conquerors. We
were undoubtedly put into a great confirmation on this
account, left they mould run into our grove, and confe-
quemly bring us into the like danger. Hereupon we re*
folved to kill the firft that came, to prevent difcovery, and
that too with our fwords, and the butt ends of our mulkets,
fvir fear the report of our guns mould be heard.
" And fo indeed, as we thought, it happened ; for three
of the vanquilhed army eroding the creek, ran directly to
the place, as to a thick wood for fhelter; nor was it long
before our fcout gave us notice of it; as alfo, that the vic-
tors did not think fit to purfue them. Upon this I would
not fuffer them to be {lain, but had them furpnfed and taken
by our party; afterwards they proved very good fervants
to us, being flout young creatures, and able to do a great
deal of wcrk. The remainder of the conquered favages
fled to their cances, and put out into the ocean, while the
conquerors, joining together, fhouted by way of triumph;
and about three in the afternoon they alfo embarked for
their own countrv. Thus we were freed at once from thofe
favages and our fears, not perceiving any of thefe creatures
for fome comfiderable time after. We found two and thirty
men dead in the field of battle; fome were flain-with loog
arrows, which we found kicking in their bodies; and the
reft were killed with great unwieldly woodens (words, which
denoted their vart ilrength, and of which we found ieven*
teen, befides bows and arrows; but we could not find oie
wounded creature among them alive ; for tney either kill
their tnemies quite, or carry thofe wounded away with
them,
" Tuh terrible fight tamed the Englishmen for fome time,
considering h^w unfortunate they m;gnc have been had they
fallen into their hands, who would not • nly kill them as
enemies, but alfo for food, as we do cattle: and indeed fo
much did this naufeate their ftomachs, that it not only made
them very fick, but more traceable ro the common neceflary
bufinefs of the whole fociety, planting, fowing, and reap-
ing, with the gre&teft figr,s of amity and friendship ; lo,
that being now all good fri.nds, we began to confider of
circumilances in general; and the firfl thing we thought
of was, whether, as we perceived the favages haunted that
fide of the illand, and there being more retired pans of it,
and yet as well fuitcd to our manner of living, and equally
to our advantage, we ought not rather to move our place
of refidence, and plant it in a much fafer place, both for
the fecurity of our corn and cattle.
"After a long debate on this head, it was refolved, or
rather voted nemine contradicentt, not to remove our ancient
caftle, and that for this very good reafon, that forwe time
or other we expe&ed to hear from cur fupreme governor*
(meaning you, Sir,) whofe meiTengers not finding us there,
might think the place demoliihed, and all his fubjecls de-
iiroyed by the favages.
** As to the next concern relating to our corn ard cattle,
we confented to have them removed to the valky where
the cave was, that being mofl proper and fufiicient for both.
But yet, when we conudered farther, we ahered one pa»t
of our refolution, which was to remove part of our cattle
thither, and plant only part of our corn there;, fo that m
icafe one part was dellroyed, the other might be preferved.
Another refolution wc took, which really had a great deal
of prudence in it, and that was, in not trading; the three
favages whom we had taken prifbners, with any knowledge
of the plantations we had made in the valley, of what cum-
ber of cattle we had thee, much lefs of the cave, wherein
we kept fever al arm?, and two barrels of powder you left
for us at y.-w departure from this ifland. But though we
covld not change our habitation, we refolved to make it
more fortified and more fecure. To this end, Sir, as you
planted frees at fome diftance before the entrance of your
palace; fo we, imitating your example, planted and filled
up the whole fpace of ground, even to the banks of the
creek, nay, into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not
leaving a place for landing ; and ar.ong thofe 1 had planted,
they had intermingled fo many fhort ones, all of which
growing wonderfully fall and thick, a little dog could
fcarcely find a paflage through them. Nor was this faffi-
cient, as we thought, for we did the fame to all the grourd
on the right and left hand of us. even to the top of the hill,
without fo much as leaving a palfage for ourfelves, except
by the ladder, which being taken down, nothing but what
had wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near us.
Ai*d indeed this was exceedingly well contrived, especially
to ferve that occaiion, for which we afterwards found it
ncceffary.
" Thus we lived two years in a happy retirement, hav-
ing, all this time, not one vilit from the hvages. Indeed
one morning we had an alarm, which put us in fome amaze*
ment; for a few of my Spaniards being out very early,
perceived no lefs than twenty canoes, as it were, coming
on fhore: upon which returning home with great precipi-
tation, they gave us the alarm, which obliged us to keep
at home all that day and th£ next, going out only in the
night-time to make our obfervations; but, as good luck
would have it, they were upon another delign, and did not
land that time upon the ifland.
tc But now there happened another quarrel between the
three wicked Englifhmen, and fome of my Spaniards.—
The occaiion was this: One of them being enraged at one
of the favage?, whom he had taken prifoner, for not being
able to comprehend fomething which he was mowing him,
fnatched up a hatchet in a great fury, not to correft, but to
kill him; yet miffing his head, gave him fuch a barbarous
cut in the ihouldcr that he had like to have ftruck off hii
arm; at which one of my gcod-natured Spaniards inter-
pofmg between the Englifhman and the favage, befeeched
the former not to murder the poor creature ; but this kind-
nefs had like to have coft the Spaniard his life, for the
Englishman ftruck at him in the fame manner; which he
nimbly and wifely avoided, returning fuddenly upon him
with his (hovel, (being all at work about their corn land,) and
very fairly knocked the brutifh creature down. Hereupon
another Englifhman coming to his fellow's afTiftance, laid the
good Spaniard on the earth; when immediateiytwo others
coming to his relief, were attacked by the third Englifhman,
armed with an old cutlafs, who wounded them both. This
uproar foon reached our ears, when, we rufhing out upon
them, took the three Englifhmen prifoners, and then our next
queftion was, what IhoUld be done to fuch mutinous and
impudent fellows, fo furious, defperate, and idle, that they
were mifchievous to the higheft degree, and cenfequently
not fafe for the fociety lo let them live among them.
"Now, Sir, as I was a governor in your abfence, folalfo
took the authority of a judge; and having them brought
before me,! told them, that if they had been of my country,
1 would have hanged every mother's fon of ihem; but,
ilnce it was an Englilhman, (meaning you, kind Sir,) to
whom we were indebted for cur preservation and deliver-
ance, I would, in gratitude, ufe them with all poflible mild-
«efs; but, at the fame time, leaving them to the judgment of
the other two Englilhmen, who, I hoped, forgetting their
refentments, would deal impartially by them.
*« Hereupon one of his countrymen flood up: *c Sir,"
faid he, u leave it not to as, for you may be fenfible we
have rcafon to fentence them to the gallows : befides. Sir,
this fellow, Will Atkins, and the two others, propofed to its,
that we might murder you all in your flcep, which we could
not confem to ; kut knowing their inability, and your vigi-
lance, we did not think fit to difcover it before row,"
"Now, Seignior," hid I, " do you hear what is alleged
againft }Ou ? What can you fay to juliify foluirid an action
as to murder us in told blood ?" So fir, Sir, was the wrench
from denying it, that he ("wore, c—mn him but he would do
it ftill. *' But what have we dene to you,Seignior Atkins."
faid I; *' or what will you gain by killing u^ ? What (hall
we do to prevent you ? Mult vie kill ycu, or you kill us?
Why will you, Seignior Avkins," laid 1, fmilirg, " put us to
fuch an unhappy dilemma, fuch a fatal neceflity !" Bat Co
great a rage did my fcoffing and yet fevere jeft, put him
Into, that he was going to fly at me, and undoubtedly had
attempted to kill me if he had been poflefied of weapons,
and had not been prevented by three Spaniards. This un-
paralleled and villanous carriage, made us ferioufly confider
what was to be done. The two Englifhmen and the Spa-
niard, who had faved the poor Indian's life, mightily peti-
tioned me to hang one of them for an example to the others,
which ihould be him that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet, it being at that time thought im-
poffible the poor Have Ihould recover. But they could
never gain my confent to put him to death, for the reafons
above-mentioned, iince it was an Englifhman (even your*
felf) who was my deliverer ; and as merciful counfels are
moll prevailing when earneftly prefled, fo I got them to be
of the fame opinion as to clemency. But to prevent them
doing us any farther mifchief, we all agreed, that they mould
have no weapons, as fwoid, gun, powder, or fhot, but be
expelled from the fociety, to live as they pleafed by them-
felves; that neither the two Englifhmen, nor the reft of the
Spaniards, mould have converfation with them upon any ac-
count whatfoever; that they ihould be kept from coming
within a certain diftance of our eaftle ; and if they dared
to offer us any violence, either by fpoiling, burning, killing,
Or destroying any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences,
or cattle, belonging to the fociety, we would moot them as
freely as we would do beafts of prey, in whatfoever places
we mould find them.
u This fenter.ee feerned very jufl to all but themfelves;
when, like a merciful judge, I called out to the two honeft
Englilhmen, faying, " You muit confider they ought not 10
be itarved, neither; and fince it will be fome time before they
can raife corn and cattle of their own, let us give them fome
corn to Jait them eight months, and for feed to fow, by which
time they'll raife fome for themfelves; let us alfo bellow
upon them fix milch goats, four he ones, and fix kiis, as
well for their prefent lupport, as for a further increafe;
with tools neceflary for their work, as hatchets, an axe, faw,
^and other things convenient to build them huts; all which
were agreed t but before they took them into pcfiefiion, I
obliged them folemnly to fwear, never to attempt any thing
againit us, or their countrymen, for the future. Thus dil-
miffing them from our fociety, they went away,' fallen and
refractory, as though neither willing to go nor flay; how-
ever feeing no remedy, they took what provifion was given
them, propofing to ehoofc a convenient place where tftey
migru live by themfelves.
** About five days after, they came to thofe limits appoint-
ed, in order for more victuals, and fent me word by one of
iny Spaniards, whom they called to, where they had pitched
their tents, and marked themfelves out a habitation and
plantation, at the N. E. and moft remote part of the ifland.
And, indeed, there they built themfelves two very handfome
cottages, refembling our little caftl*. be.ng under the fide of
a mountain, with fome trees already growing o;j three fides
of it; fo that planting a few more, it would be obfeured from
fight, unlefs particularly fought for. When »hefe huts were
iinifhed, we gave them fome dry goat fkins for bedding and
covering; and upon their giving us fuller afTurances of their
good behaviour for the future, we gave them fome peas, bar-
ley, and rice for fowing, and whatever tools we could fpare.
"Six months did the;. live in this feparate condition, in
which they got their firft harvefl in, the quantity of which
was but fmall, becaufe they had planted but little land; for,
indeed, all their plantations being to form, made it more
difficult, efpecially as it was a thing out of their element;
and when they were obliged to make their boards aud pots,
&c. they could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy
feafon coming on, put them into a greater perplexity, for
want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and prevent it from
fpoiling: and fo much did this humbie them, that they beg-
ged of my Spaniards to help them, to which the good-natured
men readily contented, and in four days fpace, woked a
great hole in the fide of the hill for them, large enough for
their purpofe, to fecure their corn and other things from the
rain, tluugh not comparable to ours, which had leveral ad-
ditional apartments.
" But a new whim poflefTed thefe rogues about three
quarters of a year after, which had l.ke to have ru;ned us,
and themfelves too j for it feems, being tired and weary of
this fort of living, which made ihem work for themfelves,
without hopes of changing their condition, nothing would
{erve them, but that, they would make a vojage to the con-
tinent, and try it they c< uld feize upen fome of the favages,
and bring them over as flaves, to do their drudgrry, while
they lived at eafc and pleafure.
u Indeed the projecl was not fo prepoflerons, if they had
lio^ gone farther; but they neither did, nor propofed any
thing, but wfut Jud mifchief in the defign, or the event.
One morning, thefe ihree fellows came down to the limited
ftation, and humbly defired 10 be admitted to talk with m
which we readily granted ; they told us, in mort, that be-
ing tired of theirymanner of living, and the labour of their
hanss in fuch employment* not being fufficient to procure
the neceflaues of life, th^y only defired one of the cances
we came over i-, with Come arms and ammunition for their
defe ce, and they would feck their fortunes abroad, and
never trouble us any rro-e. To be Aire, we were glad
enough to get rid cf fuch. wretched plagues; but yet
honeily made us ingenuoufl/ reprefent to them, by what
we ourfelves had fufFered, the certain de/tru&ion they were
ronnirg into, either of being ftarved to death or murdered
by the favages. To this they very audaciouOy replied
that they neither could ntr would work; and conf.quentry
that they might as well be ftarved abroad as at home;
and as to thtir falling into thz hands of the favages, why, if
they were murdered, that was nothing to as, there was'an
end of them : neither had they any wives or children to cry
after them : nay, fo intent were they upon their voyage, that
if the Spaniards had not given them arms, £o they had bat
the canoe they would have gone without them.
" Though we cou'd net well fpare our fire-arms, rather
than they fhr.uld go like naked men, we let them have two
mufkets, a piftol, a cutlafs, and three hatchets, which were
thought very fufficien: ; we gave them alfo goat^ fle(h a
great ba&et full of dried grapes, a pot of frefli butter' a
young live kid, and a large canoe fuiEcient to carry twenty
men. And tlus, with a mift made of a long pole, and a
foil of fix large goat-fkins dried, having a fair breeze, and
flood-tide wit a them, they merrily failed away, the Spa
wards calling alter them, Bon vyyo, no man ever expeafno-'
to fee I hem more. r «*
"•When they were gone, the Spaniards and EngHhmen
would often lay to ore another, •« O how peaceably do «•«
"now live, fince thofe turbulent fellows have left us »' —
Nothing could be farther from their thoughts than to be\old
tnew fac€s any more; and yet fcarce uo and twemy days
had pa&d over their head?, but one of the Enghfhmcn, be*
tng abroad a p.antwg, perceived, at a diflance, three mc«"
H
well armed, approaching toivards him. Away he flies with
fpeed to our cattle, and tells me ar.d the reft, that we were
all urdo e, for that Grangers were landed upon the ijland,
and who they were he could nm tell; but added, that the/
were not favages, but men habited, bearing arms. Why-
then, faid I, we have the lefs ..occafion to be concerned,
fince, if they were not Indians, they mud be friends; for I
am fure there is ro Chriftian people upon earth, but what
will do us1 pood rather than harm. But while we were
confiderirg of the event, up came the three EngHlhmen,
whofe voices we quickly knew, an.d fo all cur Admiration
of that nature cesfed at once. And our wonder was fuc-
ceeded by another fore of inquiry, which was, whit could
be ihe occafion of their return'ng fo quick'y to the ifland,
when we little expected, and much lefs defired, their com-
pany ? but as this was better to be related by t emfelvcs,
I ordered them to be brought in, when'they gave me the
following relation of their voyage.
tC After two days' fa'l, or fomething lefs, they reached
land, where they "found the people coming to g:ve them,
another fort of reception than what they expected or d-ii-
red ; for, as the favages were armed with bows and arrows,
they durfl not venture on fhore, but fleered northward?, fix
cr kvan hours till they pained an opening, by which they
plainly perceived, that the land that appeared from this
place, was rnot the main land, but an ifland. At their en*
trance into the opening of the fea, they difcovered another
ifland on the right hand northward, and feveral more Wing
to the wefrward ; but being refo-ved to go on fhore fome
where or o.ther, they put over to one of the weftern iflands.
Here they found the natives very courteous to them, giving
them feveral roots and dried nfh ; my, even their women
too were .willing to fopply them with what they could
procure them to eat, bringing it a great way to them upon
their-heads. Among thofe hofpitable Indians they corw
tinwed fome days, inquiring, by tigns and tokers, what na-.
tions lay around them; and were, informed, that there were
feveral fierce and terrib'e people lived every way, accuf-
tomed to eat mankind.; but fcr themfelves they never ufed
fuch diet, except thofe that were taken in batt'e, and of
them they made a folemn feaft.
" The Englishmen inquired how leng it was fince they
had a feaft of that kind? They anfwe-red, about two-moons
ago, pointing to the moon ; and then two finders; tha*,
at tr is time, their king had two hundred pnfoners, which
were fattening up for the (laughter. Tre Englishmen
were mighty defirons of feei g the prifoners, which the
others miftaking, thought thar they warned fome cf them
for their own food; upon which they-beckoned to them,
pointing to the riling, and then to the fetungof the fun^ -
meaning, that by the lime it appeared rn the eaft next
morning, they would bring thrin fotie; and indeed they
were as good as their word ; for by that time they brought
eleven men and five won-en, juft as f"> many cows and
oxen fire brought to fea-port t wns, to victual a fhtp. But
as brutith as thefe Engbfbmrn were, their /lornachs turned
at the fight. What to do in this care, they could not tell z
to re'ufe the prifo-ers would have been the higheft afFont
offered to the favage gentry ; and to difpofe cf them, th*y
knew not in what manner; however they refdled to*s*c-
cept ihem, and fo gav= them, In return, one of 1he:.r*
hatchets, an old key, a knife, and 6x r.r feven cf rhti? 
bullets; things wh:ch, though they were who! 7 ignorant of,
yet they feerr.ed <nvire!y contented with; -grid drapgine the
poor wretches into the boat with their hands bound behind -
them, delivered them to the En glim mm. But this obliged
them to put off as foon as they h d ihefe' pref rfts, left the
donors fh< uld have expected two cr three of them to be
killed, and to be invited to dinner she n^xt day ; and 0
taking leave with all poffible refpecc ard thanks, though
neither of them urderftood What the others faid, they fa led
away back to the firfi ifland, and there fee eight of the
prifoners at liberty.1 In 'he:r venag? th«-y endea^ruri^i to'
comfort, and have*'"fpnie eonve:fa .iojo with} the poor cap-
rices; but it was impeimVe t^> rmke them* fenfrbre of any
\thing; an4,nothing they could fay or give, or do for them,
coiild make Jthein -othei-wife ptrfuaded, but that thev v^ere
mibbu-nd only to be devoured: if they rave them my
food, they thought ic was' brly Vo'fatten them for the
flaughter,; cr looked at anv "one mde p^liculsrly, the
poor creature fuppifed iifeIf to be tin firit facnfke ; and
even whe-n we brought u-em to our tflsnd, md heg?n ro
ufe them with the" grea eft humanity and kindnefs, yet thev
expected every day that their new mafters would'devcur
them. * * • •
,f And thus, Sir, did tfvefe three flrarge van defers con* '
- 11 2 -
.elude their unaccountable relation of th*ir voyage, which
was both amazing and entertaining, Hereupon, [ afked
them where their new family was ? They told me, they bad
-.put them into one of their hut?, and they came to beg fome
victuals for them. This, indeed, made us all long to fee
them j and taking Friday's father with us, leaving only two
at our caftle, we came down to behold thefe poor creatures.
*.' When we arrived at the hut, (they being bound again
by the'Englilhmcn, for,fear of efcaping,) we fou-d therri
iiark naked, expecting their fatal tragedy; they were
three lufly men, well fhaped, with uSaight and good limbs,
between thirty and five and thirty years old ; and five wo-
Jnen, two of them might be from thirty to forty, two more
not above four and twenty ; and the laft, a comely tali
mafden of about feventeen, Indeed, all the women were
very agreeable, both in proportion and features, except
that they were tawny, which their modeft behaviour, and
other graces, made amenJs Lr, when they afterwards
came to be clothed.
" This naked appearance* together with their miferabie
circumftances, was no Very comfortable fight to my Spa-
niards, who, for their parts, 1 may venture, Sir, without
.flattery, to fay, are men of the befl: behaviour, calmed
tempers, and fwectel* nature, that c^n pufiibly be, for
they immediately ordered Friday's father to fee if he knew
any of them, or if he underftood what they could Uy>
No fooncr did the old Indian appear, but he looked at
them with great ferioufnefs; yet as they were not of his
nation, they were u ter Grangers to hrm, and none could
underftand his fpeech or figa*?, but one woman. This was
enough to anfwer his defign, which was to affure th«m
they would not be killed, being fallen into the ra^dsof
Chriftianc, who abhorred fuch birbarity. When they
were fully fatisfied of tlrs, they expreiTed their joy by fuch
ilrange gefturcs, and uncommon tones, as it is not poffible
for me to defenbe. But the woman, their interpreter, was
ordered nrxt to inquire, whether they were content to be
fervan.ts, and would work for the men who had brcugh;
them hither to fave their lives? Hereupon, (being at this
time unbound,) they fell a capering and dancing, one taking
this thing upon her fhou'ders, and the others that, intima^
tings f h&t they wee willing to do any thing for them. But
now, Sir, having women amongft us., and dreading that
it m'ght occaiion fome ftrife, if not blood, I aiked the three
men what they would do, and hotV they intended to ufe
thefe creatures, whether as fervants or women ? One of them
very pmly and leadily anfwered, they would ufe them as-
bath. Gentle nen, faid I, as you are your own matters, I
am not goine to reftrain you from that; but, methinks, for
avoiding diiTenfions among you, 1 would only defire you to
engage, that none of you will take more than one for a wo-
man or wife, and that having taken this one, none eUe mould
prefume to touch her; for though we have not a prieftly1
authority to marry you, yet it is but reafbnable, that who-
ever thus takes a woman, fhculd be obliged to maintain her,,
fmce nobody has any thing to do with her ;. apd this, in-
deed, appeared fo juft to all prcfent, that it was unanimGufly
agreed to. The Englifhmen then atked my Spaniards, whe-
ther they defigned to take any of them ? bat they all an-
fwered, No j tome declaring they bad already wives ia
Spain i and others, that they cared not to>join'with infidels.
On the reverfe, the Engliihmen took each of them a tem-
porary wife, and fo fet up a new mefhod of living. As to
Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three favage fervanis
we had taken in the late battle, they all lived with me in
our ancient caftie ; and indeed we fupplied the main part
of the ifland with food, as neceffity required. But the mofi
remarkable pa?tof the ftcry is, how thefe Englishmen, who
had been fo much at variance, mould agree aboutthe choice
of thofe women ! yet they took a way good enough to pre-
vent quarrelling among themfelves. They fet thefive wo-
men in one of their huts, and going themfelves to the other,
drew lots which (houid have the tirft choice. Now, he
that had the firft lot went to the hut, and fetched out her
he chofe; and it is remarkable, that he took her that was
the raoft homely and eldeft of the number, which made the
reft of the Englifhmen exceedingly merry; the Spaniards
themfelves could not but fmile at it; but, as it happened,
the fellow had the bell thought, in choofing one fit for ap~
picatibn and bufinefs; and, indeed, fhe proved the beft
wife of all the parcel.
Bat when the poor creatures perceived themfelves plsced
in a row, and ff parated one by one, they were again feized
wi;h an unfpeakable terror, as now thinking they were going
to be (lain in earneft; and when the Engliihmen came to
take the finl, ths reft fet up a lamentable cry, clafped their
H3
arms round ler neck, and hangirg about Her, took thefr
3a(l farewell, as they thought, in fuch irembling agonies,
and afFeflionare embraces, as would have fotened th? hard-
eft heart in the world, and made (he daell eyes mtk into
tear& ; nor could they be perruaded but tlut thev were goi^g
to die, till fuch time as Friday's father made them fe.fibU
that the Englifhmcn had chofen them hr their wives, which-
ended all their terror and concern upon this occafton.
4t Well-, after this, the Englifomen went to w rk, and, be-
ing affiled by my good-natured Spaniards, in a few hours
they erecled every one of them a nrw hut or tent for their
Separate lodging, fince ihofe ihey had already were filled
with tools, hciafehoM fluff, znd rrcvifion. Tney all ctn«
tintied on tre north more cf the iftand, but feparate as be-
f© e ; the three uicked ores pitched Uriher off, and the two
honeft men nearer bur cairle ; fo ihit the iflard Teemed to
be peopled in time place?, three towns beginning to be built
for that purpefe. And h* re 1 cannot butjremaik, whit h
\ery commonr that the two horn ft men- had the worft wive?,
(I mean as to mdulby, chanlir.cfs, and ingenuity,} while the
three reprobates enjoyed women of contrary qualities.
"But another obfervation I made was, in favour of the
"two honeft men, to (hew what difpari:ynhere is b tween a
diligent application to buiinefs, on the one hand, and a fl >ih-
ful, negligent, and idie temper, on uhe ober^ j&oth of
'thtm ha-cl the fame parcel of ground laid out, and corn to
fow fuflkient for them ; but both did r*o.t in- ke the fame
improvements, ei'her ii their cultivation or t c r pLnting.
The two bonett men had a multitude of youno trees planted
about their habitations, fo that when yo,u approached near
them, nothing appeared bat a wood, very pleating and de-
lightful. Every thing ihey aid profpered ad ftjur.med;
their grares planted in order, Teemed as tnough managed in
avineyarJ.and were ir ft litelv preferable to any of the others.
Nor were ihey wanting t'o fin \ out a place of .retreat, but
dug a cave in the moli retired part of a thick wood, to fe-
cure thrir wives and chil rer, wt.h their pre viiion and ch ef-
ell goods, furrounded with i numerable flakes, and having
a moil fjbtle cnirarce, in cafe any mifchief fhould happen,
either from their fellow-countrymen, or thedevounngfavage$.
w As to the reprobates, (lh ugh I mull o>vn they were
much more civi'ized than before^ inC.ead of a delightf i wood
iurruunding their dwelii-gs, we found the words of King
Solomon too truly verified ; €f I went by t^e vlreyaH of the
" flothful, and it was a'l overgrown wi'.h thorns.5> In many-
places their crop was obfetreci by weeds; the hedges having
feveral gaps in chem, the wild goats had got in, and eaten
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bulh to Hop
thefe gaps for the prefent, which was r.o more than fhutting
the liable door after the fteed was flo'en away. But as to
their wives, they (as I obferved before) were more diligent,
and cleanly enough, efpecnlly in their victuals, being in-
jiructed by one of the hondt men, who had biien a cook'*-
mate on b^ard a /hip: and very well it was fb ; for as he
cooked himielf, his companion and treir families lived as
well as the idle hufb tnds^ who d'd nothing bat loiter about,
fetch turt!esJ eggs, catch* fifli and birds, and do any thing bac-
work, and lived accordingly; while the diligent lived very
handfomely and pi nttfuily, in the moil com-onable manner.
" Aud now, Sir, I come to lay before }Our eyes a fecne
quite different from any thing thai ever happened to us be-
fore, and perhaps ever befrl yoa in all the time of your
refidence on this ifland. I ftiall inform you'of its original
ia the following manner:
14 One morning, Sir, very early, there came five or fix
canoes of Indians on more, indifputably upon their old cuf-
torn of devouring their prifoners. All that we had to So
upon fuch an occafion, was to lie conceakd, that they, not
having any notice of inhabitants, might depart quiedv, after
performing their bloody execution : whoever riril difcovercd
the favages, was to give notice to all the three plantations
to keep within doers, and then a proper fcout was to be
placed to give intelligence of their departure. But, not-
withftanding thefe wife meaiures, an unhappy difailer dis-
covered us to the favage?, which was like to have caufed
the defohtion of the whole ifland j for, after the favages.
were gone off in their canoes, foroe of ray Spaniards and I
looking abroad, and being inflamed wilh-a curiofky to fee
what they had been doing, to our great amazement beheld
three favages'fa<t afleep on the ground, who, either b^g
gorged, could not awake when the others went ofFj or havirgt
wandered too far into the woods, did not come back in time.
<f What to do with them at fir ft, we could not teFl j as for
ilaves we had enough of them already j and as to killing,
them, neither, ChrifUanity nor.humanity would fuffcr as to
Ihed the blood of persons who never did us wrong- We
perceived they had no boat left them to tranfport them to
their own nation; and that, by letting them wander about,
they might dfrcover us, and inform the firft favages that
fhould happeu ro land upon the fame bloody occafton, which
information mi^hi entirely ruin us: and therefore I coun-
tered ra;y Spaniards to fecure them, and let them about fom«
work or other, till we cotj'd better difpofe of them.
*c Hereupon we ail went back, and making: them awafcp,
tojk them prisoners. It h ampoffible to exprefs the horror
tpey were in, rfpecially when bound, as thinking they were
going tabe murdered and eaten, but we foon eafed them of
their fear as to that p^int. Wc firil took them to the bower,
whtre the chief of our country work lay, as keeping goats,
planting cern, Sec. and then carried them to the two Eng-
lishmen^ habitation, to kelp them in their bufinefs; but
happy it was for us all we did not carry them to our caftle,
as by the fequel will appear. The Englifhm*n, indeed*
found them work to dS; but whether they did not guard
them ftrictly, or that they thoug ht they could not better them-
iclvts, I cannot tell; bat certamly one of them ran away ifitc*
the woods, and they could not hear of him fcr along time after.
44 Undoubtedly there was reafon enough tofuppofe he got
home in fome of the canoes, the favages returning in about
four weeks time, atsd going off in the fpace of two days,
You may be certain, Sir, this thought could not but terrify
as exceedingly, and make u* juftly conclude, that the favage
wculd inform his countrymen of our abode in the iHand,
how few and weak we were in cotnp^rifon to their numbers;
find we expected ic wou'd not be long before the Englilh-
men would be attacked in theirliabkations: but the favages
had not feen their places of fafety in the woods, nor our
caflle, which it was a great happinefs they did not know.
' •' N r were we mirtaken ia our thoughts upon ih;s-oc-
eafirn; for about ci*ht months after, tlvs, fix canoes, with
ahout ten men in each cance, came failing by the narch-fide
pf the iflai d, which they were never accultmed to do before,
aud landed abut an hour after fun-rife, near a mile from the
dwelling of the two Englishmen, who it feems, had the
grod fortune to discover them about a league oft": fo that it
was an hour before they could attain the fhore, and fome
time longer before they could come at them. And now
being con&med rn this opinion that they *ere certainly
OF RQBJSTSON Q#VSQE. 177
betrayed, they immediately bound the two flaves which were
left, caufing two < f the three men, whom they brought with
the women, and who proved very faithful, to lead them with
the r wives, and other conveniences, into iheir retired cave
in the wo»d, and there to bind the two fellows hand and
foot, till they had further orders. Then they opened their
fences, where they kept their milch goats, and drove them
all out, giving the goats liberty to ramble ia the woods, ta
make the favages believe that ihey were wild ones; but the
flave had given a truer information which made them come
to the very enclcfines.. The two frightened men fent the
other flave of the three, who had been with them by acci-
dent, to alarm the Spaniards, and defire their aflUtance; in
the mean time tbey took their arms and ammunition, and
roaie to the cave where they had fent their wives, and fe-
ouring their flave*, feated therofelves- in a private place,
from whence they might behold all the acVions cf the favages.
Nor had they gone far* w.ien, afcendir.g-a r'.fmg groand,
they could fee a little army o( Indians, approach to ihrir
heautiful dwelling, and in a few moments more, perceive *
the fame, and tneir furniture", to their unf-eakable grief,
burning in a confamtng flame: and when this was done,
they fpread here and-there, -fearching every buOi and place
forthc people, of * hem it was evident they bad information.
Upon which ihe two Englishmen, not thinking.themfelves
fecure where they-ftood, retreated about half a mile higher ~
into the country, righ ly concluding, that the farther'the *
favages drolled, there-would be lefs numbers together: upon
which they next-took-their itand by the trunk of an old tree -
very hollow and lar^e, whence they refo.ved to fee what
wo aid oiler 5 but they had not ftood long there, before two*
favages came running d'rrec\1y towards them, as though
having knowledge of their being there, who feemed rdolved
to at ack them ; a little farther were three more,, and fivs
rootle behind them agam, all running the feme wa-><» It
cannot he imagined the perplexity the poor men were in at
tHid4ightv thinking that if ?iliftance~did nctfpeedily cotnr, -
their cave in the wocd< would bis difcovered, andconft q.uently
all therein loft ; fo-they r^folved to rciiti them there, and,
when overpowered, to afcend to the top of the tFees> where
they might-defend themfeives. as long as their ammunition.
laiied, and feti. t cir lives as ^dear-'as-poffible to thofc>-
i.' ' . . jdL.5 *
devouring favagcs. Thus fixed in their refo!ution> they'
next eonfidered, whether they fhould fire at the firft two, op
wait for the three, and To take the middle party* by which
the two firft and the five lafi would be fcparatcd. In this-
regulation the two fav^ges alfo confirmed them, by tuning
a little to another part of the wood; b<jt the three, and the
five after them, came direclly towards the tree. Hereupon
they refolved to take them in a dired line, as they approach-
ed nearer, becaufe, perhaps, the firft fhot might hit them all
threej and upon this occafion, the man who was to fire,,
charged his piece with three or four bullets. Amf thus-
while they were waiting, the favagescame on ; one of them
was the runaway, who had caufea rII the mifchief: fothey
refolved he mould not efcnpe, if they boih fired at once-
But> however, though they d-d no: fiye together, they weret
>eady charged ; when the firft that let fly was do good &
markfman to mils hn aim, for he kded the foremoft ou;-:
right, the fecorrd (who was the runaway Indian) fill to the-
ground,, being fh; t through the body, bat viob dead, and the
third was a iiltle wounde^ in the fhaulder, who, fitting
down on the ground, fell a-(creaming in a moft fearful man-
ner. Tne ncife of rhe guns-, whish.net only made the molt
refouadrag echoe.% Fr m one fide to the other* but raifed
the birdso-f all fort*,, lettering with the mo-ft ct nfoted naife>
fo much ter r(\ei the five favages behind, that they iiood
/till at firft, like fo rn^-ny inanimate knages-. But when all
things w?re in'profound filence, t^iey came to the place wh^ re.
their comp-jnions lay ;- and heVe> not beltig feniible that.
they were liable to the fa^me fate, flood ever. Lhe wounded
man,, undoubtedly ino .iring ths oacafion of this calamity;,
and 'its as reaforable to fuppofe, he-told them, fcha; it came,
by, thunder snd lightning from the gods,; having-never, feen
or heard of a gun be ore, in the whole courfe of. their li»es,.
By this time the Eng'immen, having loaded their pieces^
fired both togecher a fecund time, when feeing them all fall
immediately on ire ground, ihey thought they had killed*
every creattire of them. This made tbem come up boldjy
before the) had >.h n ged thnF guns, which, kd ed,. was a.
^wfd%Jtep>, For, when they came to the ,placr,'b$y found. '
four A>ive, two of them very little woucded, and^one no-taU
ajl, whicfrobklg-edthem to fall upon th§m with tr er muikets ;,
they firft knocked the runaway fava,ge on the head, and
another that was, bat little wQU-ded in the arm4 and then
pat the other Ianguifhing wretches outof their pain ; white
he ihat was not hurt, with bended knees and uplift hands*
made piteous moans and figns to them to fpare his life ;
nor, indeed, were they unmerciful to the poor wretch, but
pointed to hirti to fit down at the root of a tree hard by;- and
then o~e of the Er.g!ifkmen, with a piece of rope-twine his
had in his pocket b/ mere chance, tying his feet fail to-
gether and his two hands behind bins, they left him there,
.making all the bafte they could after the other two, fearing
they fhould find out their cave ; but though they could net .
overtake them, they had the fatisfaclion to perceive them
at a di fiance crofs a valley towards the fea, a quite con-
trary way t-j their retreat ; upon which they returned to the
tree, to look aft?r their prifoner ; but when they came there
be w*s gone, leaving the piece of rope-yarn, wherewith he
was bound, behind him.
" Well, now they were as much concerned as ever, as-
not knowing how near their enemies might be, or in vvh&t
numbers Immediately they repaired to the cave, to fee if
all was well there, and foimd every thing hfe, except the
women who were frightened upon their hufb^nds' account
whom they do* loveJ entirely, They had not bfeen long
here, before f.ven of my Spaniards came to affiil ihem ;
while the other ten, their fervants, and Friday's father, wer«
gone to defend their bower, corn* and cattle; in cafe the
favages mould have rambled fo far,- There accompanied
the fevea Spaniards, one of the three favages that had for-
merly been taken prifoner ; .and*- with them alfo that very
Indian whom the Englifhmen had, a little before, left under*
the tree; for, it feem-s/ they palled by that way where the
ihughter was made, and fo carried along vvjth them that-
poor wretch jhat was left- bou^nd. Bui fo many prifoners
Dow becoming a burden to us, and fearing the dreadlul
confequence of their efc.nping, molt of the Spaniards and-
Engliih urg$d the abfolate neceSity there was of killing
tl.em far our comrm'n prefervauan ; but, Sir, the authority
I bore, as governor, over-ruled that piece of cruelty ; and
thert I ardzt&d them fo be feat pnfouers to the o.d cave in
t'*e.valley, bound, hands and fret,, with- two Spaniards to
guard them.
" So much encouraged were the-Er.glimmen at the ap»
proach of the Spaniaids, and fo great were their fury again li
the lavages for dcllroying, theji habitations,-- that they h*.d
•HO.'.
not patience to flay any longer; but, taking five Spaniards
along with them, armed with four mufkets, a pi ft of, and a
quarter ftaff, away they went in purfuit of their enemies.
As they palled by the place where the favages were flain,
5t was very eafy to be perceived that more of them had
been there, having attempted to carry ofF their dead bodies*
but found it impracticable. From a rifing ground,, our party*
bad the mortification to fee the ftioke that proceeded front
she ruins; when, coming farther in itght of the fhore, they
plainly perceived that the favages had embarked in their
canoes, and were putting out to fea. This they were very
forry for, there being no coming at them to give them a
parting fa lute j but, however, they were glad enough to get
clear of fuch unwelcome guefts.
'* Thtts the two honefrx but unfortunate Englishmen, being
ruined a fecond timesand their improvements qnite destroyed,
moft of my good natured Spaniards helped them to rebuild,,
and weall affifted them wkb needful fuppMes ; nay^whatis
more remarkable their three mifchjevons countrymen, when
they heard of it, (which was after all thefedifafters were over,,
they living mere remoteeaflward,) very friendly fympathized
with them, and worked for them feveral days; fo that in a
litle their habitations were rebuilt, their neceflLies fupplied^
arid themfelves-rtftored to their former tranqaillity.
4i Though the favages had nothing to b^atf of" in this ad*
venture* (feveral canoes being driven aftvore, fallowed by
two drowned creatures,, having undoubtedly me; with a
fiartrkat fea, that very night they departed,) yet it was natural
to be fuppu&d, that iSofe whofe better fortune it was to-
lafrtefo thVir native tbore, would inflame ibetr nation to>
another mini as attempt, with a greater force, to. carry all
fctfore them. And, indeed, (o it happened t for about feven
months after, our iiland wis invaded witka moft formidable
navy, no lefs than eight and iwenry canoes fuli of forages*
arm d with wooden fw rds, monftrous dabs,, bows and
arrows, and fuck like inflruments ofwar, landing at the tail
end of theifland.
" Yo>j may well, Sir, imagine,, what condemnation our
men wp*e in upon this account, and how fpeedy tbey were
to execute their refoluiio% having Only that night's lime
allowed ihenf. They knew t&it fince they could not with-
Hand rheiF enem'es, concealment was the only way to pro*
cn*e their fafety ; and^ therefore* they took dewn-the huts
that were built for the two Bnglitbmen, and drove their
flock of goats, together with their own at the bower, to the
old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance of in-
habitants as poffib!e ; and ihen polled themfelves, with all
their force, at the plantation of ihe two men. As they ex-
peeled fo it happened ; for early the next morning, the
Indians, leaving their canoes at the eall-end of the ifland,
came running along the fhore, about two hundred and fifty
in number, as near as could be guiTeJ. Oar army was but
little indeed j and what was our greatest misfortune, we had
not arms fufficient for them. The account, as to the mtn,
Sir, is as follows: vis. 17 Spaniard?, 5 E-tglifhmen, old Fri*
day, the t^ree favages, taken with the five women, who.
proved faithful feryants, and three other dives, living with
the Spaniards. To arm thefe, they h^d It roufkets, 5 pif-
tols, 3 f. wl ng-pieces\, 2 fwords, 3 old halberts, 5 mufkets,,
or fowling-pieces, taken from the Tailors whom yon reduced*
As to the flaves, we gave three of them halberts, and the
other, three leng ftaves, with great iron fpikes at the end
of them, with hatchets by their fides j we alfo ha.d hatche *
flicking in our girdles, befides the fire arms ; nay, two of
the women, inspired with Amazonian fortitude, could not
bediffuaded from righting along with their dear hufbands,
and if they died, to die with them. Seeing their refoUuion>
we gave them hitchets Itfcewife; but what pleafed then*
belt, were the bows ar.d a^ows (which they dexteroufly
knew how to ufe) trut the Indians had left behind them*
afer their memorable battle one againfl another.
" Over this army, which, though little, was of great in*
treptdity> I was conftituted chief general and commander %
and knowing WiM Atkins, though exceedingly wicked, ye*
a man of invincible courage, I gave him the power of com-
mar.ding under me ; he had iix. men with the.r muikets-
loaded wi h fix of Ceve-n bulle.s a piece, and were planted
jull behind a faaall thicket of bulhes, as an- advanced guards
having orders to let the firft by ; and then, when her
fired into the middle of them, mike a rumble retreat round
a pan of the wo d, and fo come in therear of the Sp*niard$,
who were fhidcd by a thicket of trees i for, though the la-
vages c roe ©-> with the ftercenefs of lions,, yet they wanted
the fu'itlety of taxes, being out of a'l manner of order, and
draggling in heaps every way j and, indeed* when Will
Atkm5x after fifty of the favages had p*fTed by* had ordered
three of his men to give fire, fo great was tbexr canfternar
tion, to fee fo many nun killed and wound.d, and hear fucft
a dreadful noife, and >et knew not whence it C3me, that
they were frightened 10 the higheft degree; and when the
fecord volley was given, they concluded no lefs but that
their companions were (1 .in by thunder and lightning from,
Heaven. In this notion they would have continued, had'
Will Askins and his men retired, as foon as they had fired,
accordin^to order; or had the reit been near them to pour
in their (hot continually, the:e might have been a complete
victory obtained; but ftayLg to load their pieces again,,
difcovered the uho'e matter. They were perceived by
fame of the (catering lavages at a ditlance, who let fly their
arrows among them, wr-unded Atkins rrmfelf, and killed his
fellow En^lifhman, and one of the Indians taken whh the
women. Our party did no: fail to anfwer them, and in their
retreat killed about tvventy favages. Here I cannot bur
take notice cf cur poor dying flave, who though ftopt from
h s retreat by a fatal arrow, yet with his flair and hatchet
defperately and gallantly ailailed his purfuers, and killed
five of the favages before his life fubmitted to a multiplicity
of wounds. Ncr is the cruelty or malice of the Indians to
be lefs remarked, in breaking the arms, legs, and heads of
the two dead bodies, with their clubs and wooden fwords,
after a moft wretched manner. As Atkins retreated our
party advarced, to i?;terp fe between him and the fava^es :
but, after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat alfo ; for
they were fo numerous and defperate, that they came up to
our very teeth, (hot their arrows like a cloud, and their
wounded men, enraged with cruel pain,, fought like madmen.-
The'v did not, however, think fit to follow us, but drawing>
lhemfdves up in a crcle, thev g -ve two triumphant fhours in
token of viclory, though they rud the grief n feefsveraiof
their wounded men bleed to death before them.
*' After 1 had. Sir, drawn up my little army together upon
a rifi* g ground, Atkins, wounded as he was, "would luve-
had u* a.ta'-k the whjle body of the favages at once. I
was extremely well pleafed wiih the gallantry of the man:
but, up n confiderat'on, I replied, " You perceive, Seig-
41 nior Atkins, how their wounded men fight, kit them-
'* alone till morning, when they will be f>int,. ft iff, and fore,
*' and then'we fhal( have fewer to combat with." To*
which Atkins, fmiling, replL-dj. " That's very uue, Seig,-
a nior, (o fhall I too; and that's the reafon I would fi^ht
u them now I am warm." We all anfwered, Seignior
Atkins, for your part yea have behaved very gallantly ; and
if you are not able to approach the enemy in the morning,
we will fight for you, till then we thi k it convenient n>'
wait, and i"o we tarr ed.
*' By the brigbtnVfs of the moon that night, we perceived'
the favages in great difo.der aoout their dead and wounded
men. This made us change our reiolution, and refolye to-
fall upon them in ths night, if we could give them one vol-
ley u. discovered. This we had a fair opportunity to do,
by one of the two Englifhmen leading us round,, between
the woods and the fea-fide weflward, and turning fliort
fouth, came privately to a place wnere the thickeft of them
were. Unheard and uiperceived, eight of us fixed among
them, and did dreadful execution ; and in half a minute
after, eight more of as let flv, killing and wounding abund-
ance of them ; and then dividing ourfelves into three bodies,:
eight perfons in each body, we marched from among the
trees, to the very teeth of the enemy, fending forth the-
greateit fhouts and acclamation?. The favages hearig a
different noife from three quarters at once, flood in ther
mm 11 confufion ; but coming in fight of us, let fly a volley
of arrows, which wounded poor old Friday, yet happily it
did not prove moital. We did not, however, give them a
fecond opportunity j but rufhing in among them, we fired'
three feveral ways, and then fell to work with our fwords,
ftaves, hatchets, and the butt-end of our mufkets, with a
fury not fi be iefilled ; fo that, with the rnoft difmal fcream-'
ing and howling, they had recourfe to their fret, to'fave their
lives by a fpeitay flight. Nor muft we forget the valour of
the two women; for they expofed themfelves to the greateft
dangers, killed many wkh their a:ro^s, and valiantly de-
llroyed feveral more with their ha chets.
"In fighting thefe two battles, we were fo much tired,
that wc did not then trouble ouifelvesto puriue them to
their canoes, in vvh'ch we thought they would prefcntly'
put to the ocean ; but there happening a dreadful llorm at
iea> which continuing all that nighi,.it nut cnly prevented tneir
voyage, but dallied feveral of their boats to pieces agunff'
the beach, and drove the re J) fo high upon the ihore, -that itj
required infinite labour to get them off. After our men hid
taken fome refrclhment and a little rcpofe, they refolveci
early in the morning to go towards the place of their lzn&~
' ing, and Tee whether they were go^e off, or in what poflure
they remained. This necefTarily led them to the place of
battle, where feveral of the fa^ages were expiring, a fight
no way pleafing to generous minds, to delight in mifery,
though obliged to conquer them by the law of arms ; but
our own Indian flaves put them out of their pain, by de-
spatching them with their hatchets. At length coming in
view of the remainder of the army, we fo.nd them leaning
upon their knees, which were bended toward their mouth,
and the head between the two hands. Hereupon, coming
within mufket-fhct of them, J ordered two pieces to be fired
Without ball, in order to al-.rrn chem, that we might plainly
know, whether they had the courage to venture another battle,.
or were utterly difpirited from fuch an attempt, tint fo we-
might accordingly marage them. And, indeed, the projeel
took very well;, for, no fjoner dH the favages hear r»e firft
gun, and perceive the ft a in of the fecv-nd but they fuddenly
llarted upon their feet, in the greateft cor.fiernation ; and
when we approached towards them, they ran howling and
fcreaming away up the hi») irto th? country.
" We could rather, at firft, have wiihed that the weather
had permitted them to have gone off to the fea; but when
we cenfider that their efcape might cccafion the approach/
of multitudes, to our utter ruin and defolation, we were
very well pleafed the contrary happened : Will Atkins
(who, though wounded, would not part from us b]] th s whi'e)-
advifed us not to let flip this advantage, but clapping be-
tween them and their boats, deprive them of the capacity
of ever returning to plague the ifland : *' I know,." laid het
•' thei:e is bit one objection you can make, wh'ch is, that
** thefe creature living like beaits ii> the wood, may make
" excurfions, rifle th« p^antcttl.r.s, and deftroy the tame
** goats ; but then, confider, we had better to do witii an^
*' hundred men* whom we can kill, or make flues of at
*l ln'fure, than with an hundred nations, whom it is im-
u poffible v.e fnou!d fave ourfelves from, much lefs fubv
4* due." Tnis advice, and ti^efe arguments being approved
of, we fet ire to their boats y and tht ugh tkey were fo wet
that we co-uid not burn them entirely, yet-we made them >
incapable of fwimming in the (e*s.. As foon as the Indians-
perceived what we were doing, many of them ran out of ther
woeds; in fight of us, and kneel,ng down, piteoufljf cried 'our
Oay Oa, Waramakm. Intimating, I fuppofe, that, if we would
bui fpare their cances, they would never trouble us again.
"But all their complaints, fubmiflions, and entreaties,
were in vain; for felf-prefervation obliging us to the con*
trary, we detftoyed every one of them tnat had efeaped the
fury of the ocean. When the Indians perceived this, they
raifed a lamentable cry, and ran into the woods, where they
continued ranging about, making the woods ring with their
Jamencations. Here we mould haveconfidered, that making
thefe creatures thus: defper a te* we ought, at the fam© time,
to have fet a fuflic ent guard upon the pta stations : for the
lavages, m their ranging about, found out the bower, de-
ifcroyed the fences, trode the corn down under fibeir feet, ani
tore up the vines and grapes. It is true, we were always
able to right thefe creatures; bur as they weretoofwift for
ns> and, very numerous, we durft not go out {ingle, for fear
of them ; though that too was neediefs, they having no
weapons, nor any materials to make them: and, indeed*
their extremity appeared in a little time after.
4t Though the favages, as already mentioned, had de-
frroyed our bower, and all our corn, graphs, &c. yet we
had ftill left oar ftock of cattle in the valley, by the cave,
with fome little corn that grew there, and the plantation of
Will Atkins and his companions, ©ne of whom being killed
by an arrow, they were now reduced to two : it is remark-
able that this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian wiih
his hatchet, and had a defign to murder me and my coun
tryrr.en the Spaniards* As our condition was fo bw, we
came to the refolution to drive the favages up to tbe farther
part of the ifla d, where no Irdians landed ; to k-11 as many
of them as we could, till we had reduced their number; and
then to give the remainder fame corn to plant, and to teach
tb m how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly we
puriued them with our guns, at the hearing of which they
were fo terrified, that they wou.d fAl to the ground.—
Every day we killed and wounded tome of them, and many
were found ftarved to deatft, fo that oar hearts began to re-
lent at the light of fuchmiferable objects. But at laft, with
great difficulty, t\king one of then abve, and ding him
with kind;>efs and endernefs, we brought him to old FrU
day, who talked to him. and told him how good we would
be to them all, giving them corn ^nd land to plant a^d live
in, and prefens nourifhment, provided they ihouU keep
within fuch bounds as fhou'd be allotted them, and not do
prejudice to others: «* Go then,51 f*id he, fl and inform
*' your countrymen of this ; which, if they will not agree to*
*' every ore of them ihall be fhin."
- '* The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being reduced
to about t-hirty-feven, joyfully accepted the offer, and earn-
eftly begged for food; hereupon v*e fent twelve Spaniards
and two Englifhrnen, well armed, together with old Friday,
and three Indian Hives were loaded with a large quantity
cf bread and rice cakes, with three live goats; and the
poor Indians being ordered to fit-down o'n the iide of the
hii), they ale the victuals very thankfully, and have proved
faithful to the laft, never trefpafiing beyond their bounds,
where at this day they quietly and happily remain, ar.d
where we now and then v»fit them. They are coi fined to
a neck of land about a cni'e and a half broad, and tbree Gr
four in length, on the foutb-ratl corner of the ifUnd, the
fea being befere, and lofty mountains behind them, free
from the appearance of canoes; and indeed t^eir couetry-
men never made any inquiry after them. We gave cbem
twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; have taught
them to build huts, make wooden fpades, plant corn, m<;ke
bread, breed tame goats and milk them, as likewife to make
wicker-work, in which, I moil ingenuoufly confefs, they
infinrely outdo us, having m^de tnemfelves feveral pretty
neceflaries and fancies, as bafkets, fievrs, birdcages, and
cupboards, as ali\ilools, beds, and couches, n:> lefs ufeful
than delLhdol ; a^d now they 1 ve the moil im.ocent and
inofF^oiive crea?u?e> dm ever were fubdued in the world*
want ng nothing but wives to- make them a nation.
tl Thus* kind Sir, have i given yon, according to my
ability, an impartial account of the various tranfaclioos that
have happened in the iil-nd Unce your departure, to this
da> ; and we have great reifou to ack lowledge the kind
providence of Heaven in cur merciful deliverance. Wnen
yv u i^fpeet your lit.le kingdom* you will find in it fome
Ijitie improvement, )our fl->ck> increafed, and yo-*x fu^jecls
augmented, fo that from a defulate iilanri, as this was before
your wonderful, deliverance upon it> here is a vifible prof-
peel of its becoming a populous and well governed little
kingdom, to your immoral fame and glory/"*
There is no doubt to fuppofe but that the preceding re-
lation of my faithful Spaniard was. very agreeable^ aad ao
lefs furpriflng to me, to the young priefl, and to all who
heard it: nor were thefe people lets pleafed with thofe
neceffiry uie^fils that I brought theai, fuck as the knives,
fciilors, fpades, ftiove!s4|nd pick-axes, with which they now
adorned tneir habitations.
So much had they addict-d themfelves to wicker-work,
p-o npted by the ingenuity of t~e Indians, whoa&rted them,
that *hen I viewed the Englilhmea's colonies, they feemsd
at a diltance ai tho.gh cney had lived like bees in a nive;
for Will Atkins, who has now become a very indartricus
and foher man, had made himfelf a tent of batke:-work
round the outfide ; the walls were worked in as a bsfeei,
in pannels or ftrong fquares of tnircy-two in number, land-
ing about feven feet high: in the middle was another, not
above twent}-two paces round, but much ftronger boik,
being of an octagonal form, and in the eight ccrners liood
eight Itrong polls, r.jund the top of whicn he laid flrong
pieces, pinned with wooden pins from whsch he raifed a
pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I .-flare you, and jjined
very well together with iron fp*!k.s, Which he mads him-
felf; for he had made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows and charcoal for his wcrk, forming an anvil out of
one of the iron crows, ro work upon, and in this manner
would he make himfelf hooks, ilaples, f pikes, bJ s, and
hinges. After he had pitched the roof of fits innermoft tent,
he made it to firm b:iween the rafters witn bafket-work,
thaichirg that over again with rice-ilraw, and over :hn a
large leaf of a tree, that his houie was as dry as if it had
been tied or fined. Tne outer circuit was covereJ as a
lean-to, quite rounu this inner apartment, lading Lng rafters
from the thirty-two angles to the top pcits of tne ioner
houfe, ^bout twenty Let diilar.ee, fo chat there wasaipace
like a wall between the outer and inn r *all near twenty
feet in breadth, The inner place he par.it o ed orf with
t-'.e fame * iqker-work, divid ng it into iix neat apartments,
eve:y ore of which had a doo^ rlrii into the entry of the
ma;n tert, and another into the fpace ana walk that was
round it, not only convenient for retreat, but for family ne-
ceftaiies. With n t e door of the outer circle, mere was a
pallige directly t> the do^r of the inner-houfe; on either
tide wa> a wicker partition, and a door, by which you got
imo a room twen y-t\\o feet wide, and about thirty long*
and through that into another of a fmalfer length; fo that in
the outer circle wer? ten bandfome rooms, fix of which
were only to be come at through the apartments of the in-
ner tent, fervirg as retiring roomsSo the refpeclive cham-
bers of the inr.er circle, and four large warehoufes, which
went in through one another, two on either hand of the
pafiages that led through the outer doer to the inner tent.—
Infliorf, nothing could be built moreingeiiicully, kept more
re,at, or have baer conveniences; and here lived the
three families, Will Atkins, his companirns, their wives and
children, and the widow of the deceafed. As to religion,
the men feldm taught their wives the knowledge of Gcc%
any more than the failors' cuftom of fwearing by his name.
The greateft improvement their wives had, was, they
taughc them to fpeak Engliih, fo as to be undeiftcod.
None of their children were then above fix years old ;
they were all fruitful enough, and I think the cook's mate's
wife was big of her fixth child.
When 1 inquired of the Spaniards about their circum-
flanees while among the favages, they told me, that they
abandoned thfmfelves to defpair, reckoning themfelvrs a
poor and miferable people, that had no means put into their
hands, and consequently muft foon be flarved to death,—
They ovvned, however, ihat they were in the wrong to think
fo, and for refufing the afiiftance that reafon offered for
thdr fupport, as well as future deliverance, confefling that
gritf was a moft inGgnificant paffion, as it looked upon
thi-gs as without remedy, and having no hope of things to
conie; all which verified this noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is 10 have your trouble doubled.
Nor did thefe remarks end*here ; for, making obferva-
fions upon my improvement, and on my condition at firft,
infinitely worfe than theirs, he told me that Englishmen
Jrad, in their diftrefs, greater prefence of mind than thofe
of any other country that he had met with; and that they
and" the Portuguefc were the woril men in the world to
ftruggle undrr misfortunes. When they landed among the
favages, they fourd but little provifion, except ihey would
turn cannibals, there being but a few roots and herbs, with
lutie fubilarxe in them* and of which the natives gave them
but very fparingly. Many were the ways they took to
civilize and teach the favages, bat in vain; for they *ou!d
not o*n them 'O be their initrj'clers, whole lives were ow-
ing to their bounty. Their extremities were very £rear>
being many days entirely without food, the f vagea tne e
being more indolent and lef> devouring than t ^ofe who
had better f ;pp!ies. When they went out ro batt!r, they
were obliged t:» sffifl tHefe people, in 0112 of when my
faithful Spaniard being taken, had like to have been de-
voured. They had loil their anrnunicio-*, which rendered
their fire-arms ufel'cfs : nor could t-.ey uie the ows and
arrows that were given them, fo that while the a.mies were
at a diitance they had no chance, but when clofe, then they
could be of fervice with Inlberts, and fhirpened flicks put
into the muzzles of their mufkets. They made themfelves
targets of w. od, covered with the fkins of wild bealb; and
when one happened to be lenocked down, the rell of the
company fought over him till he recovered : and then (land-
ing c'ofe in a line, they would make their way through a
thoufand favages, At the return of their friends, who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their enemies,
their joy was inconceivable. Nor were they lefs furprifed
at the fight of the loaves of bread I had fent them, things,
that they had not feen for feverai years, at the fame ti'ne
cro(fiag and bleffing it, as though it was manna fent from
Heaven : but when they knew the errand, and perceived
the boat which was to carry them to the perlon and place
from whence fuch relief came, this ft ruck them with fuch
a furprife of joy as made fome of ihem fa:ntawa), and
others burft out into tears.
This was the furamary account that I h2d from trr?m.—
I thall now inform the reader what I next did for them, and
in what condition I left them. As we were all of opinion
that as the favages wou'd fcarce trouble them any more, fo
we had no apprehensions on that fcore. I told them I was
come purely to cflablifh, and not to remove them; and
upon that occafion, had not only brought them nrcciTiries
fcr convenier.ee and defence, but alfo artificers, and ether
perfons both for their necefl^ry employments, and to add
to their number. They were all together whtn I thus taiked
to them and before i delivered to them the ilores I brought,
I a/ked them one by one, if they had entirely forgot their
firft ?nirrofk!es, wou!d engage in the Hricted: friendfhip,
and {hake hands with one another? On-this Will Atkins,
with abundance of good humour, faid, they had afflictions
enough to make them all fober, and enemies em ugh to
make them all frierds: as for himfelf, he would live and
die among them, owning that what the Spaniards had dee
to him, his own mad humour had made neceflary for them
to do., Nor had the Spaniards occafion to juilify their pro-
ceedings to me: but they told me, that fince Will Atkins
had b.'haved himfelf fo valiantly in fight, and at ether times
fhowed fuch a regard to the common intcreft of them all,
they had not only forgotten all that was pad, but thought
he ought as much to be trufted with arms and necefT ries
as any of them, which they tefttfied by making him next in
command to the governor: and they moil rranily embraced
the occafion of giving me this folemn aflurance, that they
would never feparate their intereft again as long as they lived.
After thefe kind declarations of friendfhip, we app irted
all of us to dine together the next day ; upon this I cauied
the (hip's cook and his mate to come en fnore for that pur-
pofe, to affift in dreffing our dinner. We brought from
the (hip fix pieces of beef, and frur of pork, together with
our punch-bowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of Englifh
bter, which was very acceptable to them. The Spaniards
added to cur feaft five whole kids, which being roaft d,
three of them were fent as frrfli meat to thefailorson board,
and the other two we ate ourfeIves. After cur merry and
innocent feaft was ever, I beg^n to diftrbute my cargo
among them. Fir ft, 1 gave them linen fufficient to make
every one of them Lur fhirts, and at the Spaniards' requcfl
made them up fix. The thin Engl l\\ fluffs I allotted to"
make eyery one a light coat like a frock, agreeable to the
climate, and left them fuch a quantity as to make more up n
their decay ; as alfo pumps, (bees, hats, and ftcckings. It
is not to be expreffed the pleafing fatisfaclion which ft
upon the countenances of tb<fe poor men, when they per-
ceived what care 1 took of them, as if I had been a common
father to them all ; and they all engaged never to leave the
ifland, till I gave my content for their departure. I then
prefented to them the people I brought, vizj the tailor,
fmith, and the two carpenters; but my Jack-of-all-Trades
was the meft acceptable pident I could make them. My
tailor fell immediately to work, and made every one of them
a fhirt; af er which, he learned the women how to few and
flitch, thereby to become the more helpful to their hufbands.
Neither were the carpenters lefs ufeful, taking in pieces their
clumfy things; inftead of which they made convenient and
handfome tables, ftools, bedfteads, cupboards, lockers, and
fhe'ves. But when I carried them to fee Will Atkins's
baiket-hoLfe, they owned they never (aw fuch a piece of
natural ingenuity before : "I am Are," faid one of the car-
penters, u the man that bu:lt this, has no netd of us; you
"need, Sir, do nothing but give hi.n tools."
1 d vided the tools among them in this manner: to every
man I gave a digging fpade, a (hovel, and a rake, as having
no harrows or ploughs; and to every feparate place a pick-
axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a faw, with a (lore fcr a general
fupply, (hou d any be broken or worn ou*. I left them alfo
nails, l!ap!e% hinges, hammers, chiiTeis, knives, fcifFors, and
all forts of tools and iron work; and for the ufe of the
fmith, gave them three tons of unwrcught iron, for a fup-
ply; ar.d as to arms and ammunition, 1 Itored them even to
profufion; or, at leaft, to equip a fuilkient liule army
againft all oppofers whatfoever.
Tne young man (whofe mother was unforunately flarved
to death) together with the maid, a pious and wel'-educated
youn2: woman, feeing things (o well ordered on more, (for
1 made them accompany me,) and conildering they had no
occafion to go fo far a voyage as to the Eatt-Indies, the/
both defired of me, that I would leave them there, and
enter them among my fubje&s. This I readily agreed to,*
ordering them a plat of g.ound, on which were three little
hoofes ere&ed, environed with ba(ket-work, pallifadced
like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantation. So contrived
were their tents, that each of them had a room apart to
lodge in, wh;le their middle tent was not only their ftore-
houfe, but iheir place for eating and drinking. At this
time the two Engliihmen removed iheir habitation to their
former place ; fo that now the ifland was divided into three
colorties: firft, Thofe I have juft now mentioned ; fecondly,
That of Will Atkins, where there were four families of
Engliihmen, with their wives and children, the widow and
her children ; the young man and the rcnid, who, by the
way, we made a wife of before our departure ; three fa-
vages, who were (laves; the tailor, fmith,'-(who fcrved alfo
as^a;g*nfmithy) and my other celebrated perfon called Jack*
of~.all~ Trades: Thirdly, My chief colony, which confined of
the Spsni-ards whh old Friday, who ftill remained at my
old habitation, wh:ch was my capital city.; andfarel) never
was there fuch a metropolis, it being now hid in foobfeure
& grove, that a thoufand men might have ranged theittand
a month, and lorked purpofeiy for it, without being abie to
find it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries,
bo*h iykbout and within, in a moft lurprifing manner.
-B<<t'riow i think it high time to fpeakof'the >oung French
prietf, of the order of Si. Benedict, whofejudiciousand pious
difcourfes, upon fundry cceaiions, meru an extraordinary
oblervaticn ; nor can his being a French Papiit prieft, I pre-
fume, give offence to ar.y of my readers, when they luve
tbis £flurance from me, that he was a prrfon of a moft
courteous difpofiticn, exrenfive charity, and exalted piety.
His argumrrts wire always agreeable to re-ifon, a« d his
converlaticn the moll acceptable of any perfon ilut I had
cvvr yet met with in my life.
" Sir," faid he to me one day, "fince, under God,'*
at the fame time croffing his brealr, "you have rot only
** faved my life; but by permitting me to go this voyage,
*r have granted me the happinefs of free converfaron, I
*< think it my duty, as my profeflion obliges me, to fave
" what fouls I can, by bringing them to the knowledge of
<£ fome catholic doctrine, neceffacy to falvation: and iince
4<thefe people are under your immediate government, in
*' gratitude, juflice, and decency, for what you have done
«' for me, I mall offer no farther points in religion, than
" whtt nerit your approbation." Being pleafed wiih the
modefiy of his carriage, I told him be Ihould not be worfe
ufed for being of a different perfuafton, if upon that very
account we did net differ in points of faith, rotdecertin
a part of the country where the poor Indians ought to be
infiructed in the knowledge of the true God, ard his Son
Jefus Chriil. To this he repled, that conversation might
eaiily be feparated from difputes; that he would difcourfe
with me rather as a gentleman than on religion : but that,
if we did en;cr upon religious arguments, upon my deiiring
the fame, I would give him liberty to defend his own prin-
ciples. He farther added, that he would do all thatbecame
him in his office, as a prieft as well as a^Chriflian, to pro-
cure the happinefs tf ali that were in the Ihip; that though
he could not pray *i>b, he wou'd pray for us on all occs-
*ou* J a..d then he told me fevers] extraordinary events of
his life, with,,, a few years p,ft. bur partico'ariy in this
Hit, wh:ch v.as ih* mcft remarkable: that in this voyage,
he had «fce misfortune lo be five times ftippei «nd ucfhioped :
h.s firu defign was to have g.ne :o Martinico ; for which
tak;-g fh.p a, Si. Maloes, he was f;rced i-.to Liflj^ by bad
weather, the veffel running a-ground in the mouth of the
iag-s; that from thence he went on b:-ard a Pcr;aen«fe
ihip, bou d to the Madeiras, wrGfe msller b^ing bv. an in-
d,lre:ent marker, and oat of his reckoning they were trove
to *i«] wh;re felling their eommoditv, whica was corn, they
rf.olvecI to ake in tneir load!, g at th.: Ifje of May, and to
fail 10 New£,undla»d; at the Banks of which, meeting a
trench fl.ip bound to Quebec, in the river of Canada, ard
from thence to Vlartinico, in this fhip he.mbarked; the
mafter of which aymg at Quebec, that voyage was fuf-
PMKHd; ana Jaflly fhipped himfelf for Francl, this It ft
fhip was aeflrcyed by fire, as bef. re has been related.
At tb,s ..me we talked „„ tardier; but another morniag
he comes to aie, joft as 1 was goi*gto vifit .he Enjrfifc.
men s colony, ana tells me, lhac as he knew the profperity
of the ifiand was my principal defire, he had fomediine to
cornmun.ca.e agreeable to my defign, by which perhaps he
of the ber.ed Q,ott of Heaven. « JHow, Sir 1" faid I in {
after all ihefr figna! providence, anddeaverarees, of which
you have had fociran ample relation ,'» He replied -I hope
b,r yoU are m ,, W4y> and tbat ,f « 1/"%
yrofper: but full there *,« fomc among you tfat fre m,
-equally nght ,n dieir aclions; acd remember," Seech
J< u, Sir, lMt Acbao by his cr7- re ^ J'«ch
ftcm the camp of .the children of JfraeN lb.rtnonrtfif
jefl. of Dmne-rengearce, ayid bore the weight of Us cnnSh
mert accordingly." B r Mspumm-
So fenfibly was I touched mjh his difcourf* »„,? r, r»
is « Sir, f^id he, I mull confefs it as a gr<*at unhappinefs
that we difagree in feveral doftrinal articles of reFgion ; bat
. furely both of us acknowledge this, that there is a God,
•who hav:ng given us fome ftated rules for our fervice and
r»b:dierce, «.e ought not willingly and knowingly to offend
-him; either bv negleclir g what he has commanded, or by
, doing what he has iorbidrien. This tru;h every ChrifYian
ow.df* that when any ene prefumptuoufly fins agaif-ft God's
command the Almighty then withdraws his bleffing from
him ; every go;d man therefore < ught certainly t> prevent
- fuch neglect of, or fin agairrft, God and his command*. C
thanked the yung prieft for expreffing fo great a concern
, for us, and defired him to explain (he particulars of what
he had obferv^d, tint according to the parable of Achan, I
" might remove that accurfed thing from among us," Why
then, Sir, faid he, in ihe firft p'ace, ycu have foar Englifh-
men, who have! taken favage women to tlHr wives, by
whom ih?y have feveral children, though none of them are
legally married, as the law of God and man require ; they,
I fay, Sir, are no lefs rh^an adulterers, and as they ftill live
in adu'lery, are liable to the curfe of God. I know, Sir,
.you may object the.want.of a prieft, or cLrgyman of any
kind ; as alio, pen, ink, and paper, to write down a con-
tract of marriage, and have it figr.ed between them. But
neither-ihis nor v\hat the Spanifli governor has t Id you of
their choofmg by confem, can be reckoned a marriage, n©r
any more ihin an agreement to keepthem from quarrelling
among ihemftlves; for, Sir, the eflence or facramrnt of
matrimony (fo he called iO not only conflicts in mutual con-
sent, but in the legal obligation which compels them to
own and acknowledge one another, -to abftain from other
perfons, the men to provide for their wives and children,
and the women to the fame and like conditions,• mutatis mu-
tandis, on their •fic'e : whereas, Sir, -Uefe men, upon their
* own pleafure, on any cccafion, may forfake thofe women,
and marry others, and by drowning their children, fuffer
" them utterly to perifh." u Now, Sir," added he, « can
.God be honoured in fuch an unlawful liberty as this f how
can a bleffing fuccecd to the belt, endeavours, if men are
allowed to live in fo licentious a way V9 I was indeed firuck
withthe thing myfdf, and thought that^they were much to
blame, that no formal contract; had been made, though-it
fcad been but breaking a tticfc'Uwcco .them, to engage
them to live as and man wife never to feparate, bat Jove,
cherifh, and comfort one another ail their lives/* u Yet,
Sir/' faid I, (f when they took thefe women, I was not here;
and if it h adultery, it is part my rerredy, and I cannot help
it." «* True, Sir/7 a-fvered the yourg prte!>, f*you can-
not be charged with that part of the. crime which was done
in your abfencc : but I befeech you don't flatter yourfelf,
that yoa are under no obligation now to put a period to it :
which if you neglect t"> do, the guilt will be entirely on ycu
alone, fince it is certainly in nobody*s power but yours, to
alter their condition," I muft confefs, I was fo dull, that I
thought he meant I uVuld part them, and knowing that
this v^ould pui the whole ifland into confufion, i told him I
could not confent to it upon any account whatfoever. *' Sir,"
faid hf, in great furprjfe, " I do not mean that you ihould
feparate, bet marry them, by a wriLten contract iigned by
both man and woman, and by all the witnefTes prefent,
which all the European laws decree to be of fufHcient ef-
ficacy/* Amszed with fuch true piety and fincenty, and
confiderin* the validity of a written contract, I acknowledged
all that he faid to be very juit and kind, and that I would
difcourfe with the men abcut it; neither could I fee what
reafon they conld have not to let him marry them, whofe
authority in that affair is owned to be as authentic as if they
were marred by any of cur clergymen in England.
The next complaint he hzd to make to me was this, that
though thefe En^iifh fubjects of mine have lived with thefe
women feven years, and though they were of good under-
Handing, ar>d capable of inltruction, having iearned not
or>ly to fpeak, but to read Erglifh, yet all mis while they
had never taught them any thing of the Chriilian religion,
or the knowledge of God, much Jefs in what manner he
ought to be f.rved And is not this an unaccountable
neglect:" faid.he w^rnVy; *'Depend upon it, God Al-
, mighty will call them to account for fuch contempt. And
though I am not of your religion, yet I fhould be glad to
fee tnefe. peop1e reLafcd from the Devi/s power, and be
faved by the piinciples Gf the Chriilian religioo, the krovv-
lodge of God, of a Redeemer, the refurreclion, and of a
future date. But as it is not too late, it you pleafe to give
me, leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I frtai! fupply
this preat defect, by bringing them into the great circle of
. Chxiftbnity, even while yon continue in the ill and,
12
I could hrld no longer, but embracing him, told him,
with a thnuOnd tharks, I would gram whatever he requeJh
ned, and defired him to "roceed in the third article* which
he did in the folh>wing manner :
''Sir," faid he, "it mould be a maxim among all Chfift-
ians, thar, •ChriiJi!,n knowledge ought to be propagated
by all poffible means, and on all reckons. U; on this
accru't our ci urch lends miflionaries into Perfia, India, and
•China, men who are willing lo die for tfte fake of G dad
the Chriftian f?J'h, in or er to bring poor infidels into the
way cf faivati-n. Now, Sir, as here is *n opportunity to
convert feven and thirty poor favages, I wonder hov you
.can pafs by fjch an occalion of d-ing gond, which is really
wort^' the expeufe of a man's -ahole life."
I mu'i co>,fefs I was fo confounded at this difcourfe, that
I could.not tell how to anfwer him. "Si,"faid he, feeing
me in divorcer, 41 (Vail be vcty ferry if I have given you
oiFence." *fcNo, Mr," faid 1, *' 1 am rather conh uodfd ;
and you know my circumftances, that beirg b und to the
EalMndies in a nerchant fhip, I cannot wron^ ihe owners
•fo much, as to detain the fhip here, the men laviog a- vic-
tual and wige^ on the.r account. It I Hay above twelve
-day*, 1 muft pay 3/. flerling^r diem demurrage, nor mud
the fhip Hop above eight d-iys nr re ; lb that 1 am unable
to engage in th.s w< rk, unl- is I would leave (he fliip, and
be recioced to my former condition." The prieft, though
-he owned this wis hard upon me* yei laid it to my con-
fer el ce, whether the blading of fuv>r.g feven and th>ny
fouh was not worth venturing all that 1 had in the world?"
«' Sir/5 faid 1, " it n very true: -but as you are an eccleiias-
lie, it naturally Jails into your profeffion $ why, therefore,
don't you rarher oflvr to undertake it vourfelf, than prefs
me to it?" upon this he turned about, making a very low
bow, ' I niofl humbly think God and you, Sir, (faid he,)
for fo bleiled a call j and moft willi* gh- undertake fo glo-
rious an ' fficc, which will fufficie;»ily compenfste all the
hazards an difficulties I have gone through in a long and
-uncotiforuble voyage."
While he was thus fpeakmg, I could difcover a rapture
5n via face, by his colour goifig and coming ; at the fame
time his eyes f/arkled like iire, and all the fipns of the
molt zcakus tranfpors. And when I alked whether he
.was in earnefl ? "Sir," hid he,,c it wa,s to preach to the
Indians Tccnfenfed to come along wjih you ; thefe infidels,
even in this little ifUnd, are infinitely of ra-ore worth than
my poor life : if fo that I fbouid prove thehappy iDftrument
of faving thefs poor creatures* fouls> i care not if I never
fee my native country again. One thing 1 only beg of you
more is, that you would leave Friday with me, to be my
interpreer, without whofe afEitance neither of us will
underft-tnd each other."
This requeft very feniibly troubled me: firfr upon Fri-'
day's being b.ed a Proteftanr *r and, fecondly, for the af-
feclijn 1 bore to him for his fidelity : But immediately the
remsmbrarce of Friday's father coming into my head, I re-
commended him to him as having learned Spanifh> which
the prielt alfo understood; and fo was thoroughly fatisftcd
with him*
When we, came to the Engliflimen, after I had told them
what necei&ry things I had done for them, I talked to them
of the fcandalous life they led ; told them what notice the
clergyman ha.d taken of it, and afked them if they were
married men or bachelors? They anfwered., two of them
were widowers, and the other three fihgle men. £at faid
I, with what confeience can you call thefe your wives,, "by.
whom you/have fo many children, and: yet are'noi lawfully"
married ? They all faid, that they took them before the
Governor, as fuch, having nobody elfe lo marry them, which
they thought as legal, as if they had had a parfon. No
doubt, faid I, bat in the eye. of Got it is fo : but unlefs I
am allured of your huneii intent, never to defert thefe poor
creatures* ( can do nothing more for you, neither can you
e&pecl God's blefling while you live in fuch an open courfe
of adultery! Hereupon Will Atkins, who fpoke for the reft*,
told, me, that they believed their wives the moll imucent
and virtuous creatures in the world ; that t*sey would never
forfake them while they had breath; znd tnat, if there was-
a. c!erg)man in the (hip, they wou'd be married to them
wish all their hearts. Lto'd you btfore, laid 1, thu 1 have
a.m. nillcr. with me, who ihuli rnj*r»y-you to-morrow-morn-
ing, if you are willing; fo L would have ycu confult to-
night with the re it ato-ii it. I tod him the clergyman was
^) Krerchman, and kiew rot a word of EngMh, but that L
would act as a clerk, b tween them. And n.leed this bufi»
nefa met wnh inch %^edy fucceis, thai Ucy all told me-.
13
in a few mis utes after, that they were ready to be formally
married, as foon as I pieafed; with which informing the
p.ieft, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women mould be
made fenfible of the meaning nf the thing; with which be-
ing well fctisfied, they, with their hufbar.ds, a tended at my
apartment the next irornirg; there was my prieft, habited
in a black veil, fomeihing like a cafTock, with a iafh round
it, much refembling a minifter, and 1 was h s interpreter.
But the ferioufnefs of his behaviour, a«d the fcrupfcs he
made of marrying the women who were not bop ized, gave •
(hem an exceeding revererce for his perfjn : nor, indeed,
would he marry them at all, till he ottained my hberty ta
difcourfe both *kh the men and women, and then he to'd
Ihem, That in the h\ht of all in ^ffe/enl men, and in the
fenfe of the laws of lbckty, they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now, but their confent to marry, or final *
Reparation, could pat an e d ;o; ar d; even here was a diffi-
culty with refpea to the laws of Chriilian matrimony, in
marrying a profiled Chriilian to a heathen, idolattr, un-
baptized; but )e£ there was time enough to make them
profefs the name of Chrift, without which nothing could be
c\on* \ t^lat* oe^es* he believed they were very indifferent
Chri/lians : and confequently had not difcourfed with their
wives upon that fubjec~l ; and that unlefs they promised
him to do f>, he could not marry them, as being exprefsly
forbidden by the laws of God.
All this they had heard attentively, and owned readily,
u But, Lord, Sir," faid Will Atkins to me, *' how mould
Vve teach them religion, who knew nothing of it omfelves?
Hdty can we talk to our wives of God, Jefus Chrift, hea-
ven and hell ?" why they would only laugh at us, who never
yet have practifed religion, but on the contrary all manner
of wickednefs." " Will A.kins/' fdid J, " cannot you tell
your wife fhe is in the wior.g, and that her gods are idols*
which can neither /peak nor underftand ; but that our God,
who has made, can dellroy all things; that he rewards the
good and puniihes the wicked; and at lail will bring us to
judgment? cannot you teh her thefe things?" il That's
true," fsid Will Atkins, " but then (he'll tell me it is utterly
falfe, /ince I am net punimed as d fent to the devil, who
hath been fuch a wicked creature/' Thefe words 1 inter-
preted to the pr;e!h " Oh I" faid be, " tell him} his rcp.nt-
ance will make him a very good minifter to his fcoufe, ar.d'
qiialify him to preach on the mercy and long-fuffering of a
merciful Being, who defires not the death of a linre^, and
even defers damnation to the lair judgment; this will lead
him to the doctrine of the refurrcclicm, and will make him
an excellent preacher to his wife,*' I repeated this to Aikin%
who being more than crdirarily affected with ic, replied,
€i I know all this, Sir, and a great deal mere ; but hew can
I have the impudence to talk thus 10 my wif, when my
cr.nfcience witnefles againft me ?" '* Alas l" fa id he, (with
tears in h^s eyes, and giving a great figh,) fi as for repenting,
thai is for ever pall me." " Paft you 1 A'.kns" faid 1,
'• what do you mean?'1 "** You k'oow * ell enough/' faid he,
4{ what I mean ; I mean it is too late/*
When I told the prieft what-he faid, the poor afFe£tfonate'
man could not refrain from weeping; but recovering'
himfelf, «* Pray, Sir/5 faid he, *f afk hisn if he is comemed
that it is too iate; or is he concerned, and wifhes it were'
not fo ?" This qaeftion I p >t fairly to Atkins, who replied:
in a paffion, u How can I be eafy in a 'irate which I know
mtift terminate in my ruin ? for I really believe, fome time
or other, I fhall cut my throat, to put a period both to my- .
life, and to the terrors of my conference."
At this the clergyman (hook his head : " Sir/' faid he,
** pray tell him it is not too late ; Cbrift will give him re-
pentance, if he has recourfe to the merit of his* paffion.—
Dhes he think he is beyond the power of Divine Mercy f
There may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will no
longer ftrive, but never too late for men to repent in this»
world." I told Atkins every word the prieft had faid, who
then paited from us to walk with Ins wife, while we dif-
courfed with the red. But thefe were very ftupid in reli-
gious matters : yet all of them promUed to do their endea-
vours to make their wives turn Cnriftians : and upon which
promifes the prieft mairied the three couple. Bat as At-
kins was the only fincere convert, and of more fenfe thau
the reft, my clergyman was earnellly inquiring after him :
w Sir," faid he, ic let us wak oa. of tnis labyrinth, snd I
dare fay we fhall find this poor man pi caching to his wife-
already/' And indeed we r und it irue ; tor coming to tne
edge of the wood, w.e perceived Atkins and nis favage witV
Utiing under, the fhade of a buCh, in verv earneil difcouxfej;
he pointed to the fun, to the quarters of the earth, tohirofejf,
to her* the woods, and the trees. Immediately we could
perceive him flart upon nis feel, fail down upon hi* knees,
and lift qu both his hands; at which the tar* ran down my
clergyman's checks: bat our great misfortune was, we
could not hear one word, that p*/Ted between ihem. Ano-
ther tim* he would embrace her, wiping the tears from her
eyes^ killing her with the great di trarWp.rts, and then boh
knee; Hf.wn for fca*e minutes .ojethcr. S;ch raptures of
joy did this occaOon ia my young pric-ft, thai he could
fcarceH contain him (elf: An3 a Hillc after this we obferved
by ner mrtion. as in quently I'r'ting up her hinds, a?,d lading
them on her bread, that me was rni^. tiiy a$ecud with
his difcourfe, and to ;hey withdrew from our fight.
When we came back we fe-uad thembotii waiting to be
called in j upon vi h'ch w« agreed to-examise him *!one, and
fo I began thus lo difcoqrfc to him. " Prijh^e, Will Aikins/1
£iid I, ** what education have you ? What was your Father V*
TV, A. A better man than ever I (halt be j he*wa>, Sir, a
e'er^ymac, w--»o gave ma goad inftructuxi, or correction,
wflich f de.pifed, like a bra e aa 1 was, and murdered my
po r fa htr.
Pr. lla ! a nur.ierer 1
[ Here the Priej? Jlaried and timhd J>flkt as thinking he hid
really kiUti lis Father ]
R. C, What, did you kill Him with ycur hands?
IK J, Nt», Sir, I cut r.ot his ihr at, but broke his heart
by tfe moil unnatural turn of difebe^ience to the-tea,: e reft
and heft of fathers.
R. C, Well, I pray God grant you reperuaiKe: I did
not a(k you to extort a coo ft fftcn; but I aik you becaufel
fee y; q have mere knowledge of what is good than your
cam^asior s,
IV. J. O Sir, wherever, I look b?ck upon mv pall life,
cr.nfc?cnce upbraids me wth my father: ibe iia^ againft
cur parents m ke the d?ere»t wounds, aid their weight lies
tse heavielt. upo^ the nrnd,
J\. 61 Yoj talk, Will, too feelingly and feoflbly forme;
I am n:t able to bear it.
IF. J. You bear ir, S:r ! you know nothing of it.
U. C But yes, Alk-ns, I do; and every ihore, valley,
and tree in the iil^nd, uitnefs the anguifh of my foul for
iisy vu du:iful?efs to my kind father, whom I have murder-
OF R.O B TK SOW' C KV SOZr* 2(H
ed !ikew*& : yet my repentanceMU innSit-Iy foorr of years.
Bat, Will, how comes the icnfe of this matter to teach you.
jaft now ?
/F. X Sir, the work y-ou have fet me aboo-, has occa-
fioned it; for talking to my wife about God and religion.
ihe has preached me fuch a fermoiv *^hat I ihall retain it
in Jailing remembrance.
R. €. No, no, it.is your own moving pious arguments to
her, has made cjufcitnce fling r&em back upo<r you. Bac
pray, Atkins, inform as what pafied between you and your
wife, and in what manner did you begins
W. A. I talked.-o her of the laws of marriage, the reafon.
of fuch compacts whereby order and juilice is mainlined ;-
without which men w.?uld ran from their wives and children,
to the difibludon of famir.es or inheritances.
- R. C. Well, and what did ihe fay to all this ?r
W, A. Sir, we began : ur difcourfe in the following manner^ -
whxh I fhall exactly repeat,according to my mean capacity,
\i you think it worth your while to honour it with your
attention.
THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN- WILL ATKINS AND-
HIS WIFE, IN THE WOOD.
Wifi,—YOU tell me marriage God appoint, have you-
God in your country r
W. A, Yes, child, God is in ever}? nation. -
Wife. No j great old Benamackee God is in my country^
not yours.
W* A. My dear, God h in heaven, which he made; heK
alfo made the earth, the fea, and all that is therein,
Wife, Why you-not tell me much long ago }
W* A, My dear, I have been a wicked wretch, having a<*
long time lived without the knowledge of God in the world.
Irtfe* What, not know great God in own nation? No^
da good ting r~ No fay O to him r that's ilrange!"
W. A. But, my dear, many live as if taere was no God>
in heaven, for all that.
Wife, Why God fuffer them; why rnakee not live well ?--
IF. A It is our own fauk% child .
Wifi. But if he is much great, can makes kill, why no*
makee kill when no (eryehijrt f No be good mans, ni cry-
Q.toMmi
- 1-5,
W.A. Thai's true, my clear, he may ftrike us dead, but
his abundant mercy fpareth us.
Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that ?
IV. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his mercy, nor
feared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good, nor imkee
kill, when you make him angry.
TV. A. Alas! mull my wicked life hinder you from be-
lieving in him-?
Wife. How can me tink your God live there? (pointing ta
Heaven.) Sure he no ken what do you here. ,
py. d. Yes, my dear, he hears us fpeak, fees what we do,,
and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power flrong, when he hears you
curfe, fwear de great damn ?
W. A. My dtar, this mows indeed he is a God and not
a man, who has fuch tender mercy.
Wife. Mercy ! what you call mercy ?
W. A. He pLies and (pares us : as he is our great Creator*
fo he is alfo our tender Father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked, then he no
good, no great mighty.
IV. A. O, my dear, don't fay fo, he is both ; and many
times he mows terrible examples of his judgment and ven-
geance.
Wife. Then you makee de bargain with him j you do bad?
ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A. No, indeed my fins are all preemptions upon his
goorfnefs.
PVife. Well, and yet no makee you dead; and you give
him no tankee neither!1
W. A, It is true I am an ungrateful, unthankful dog, that
I am.
Wife. Why, you fay he makee you, why makee you no
much beiter then?
IV. A, It is I alone that have deformed myfelf, and abufed
his goodnefs.
Wife, ^ray makee God know me, me-no makee him an-
gry, no do bad ting,
W. A. You mean, my dear, that you defire I would teach
vou to know God : alas! poor dear creature, be muft teach
thee, and not I. But I'll pray earneitly to him to direfr
thee, and to forgive me/a miferable fmner. (Hereupon he-
^went a little diflance, and kneeling down, p-ayed earneftfy
to Grd to enligh:en her mind, and 10 pardon his fins; when-
tbis w«s done, they continued their difccurfe thus :)
Wife. What you put down knee for } For what hold up-
hand ? Who you fpeak to f •
W, A. My dear, I bowed in token of fuhmifiion to him
that made mf, and prayed that he would open your eyes-
and undemanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will be hear what
you fiy? '
W. A. Yes, my dear, he bids- us pray, and has givxn us-
promife that he will hear us.
Wife. When did he bid you pray ? What! do you bear
him fpeak r
W. A~ No, my dear,, but God; has fpoken formerly to
good men from heaven; and by divine revelation-they have-
written all his laws d<>wn in a book,
Wife. O where that good book ?"•
W. A, I have it not now by me; but one time or other'
I mall get it for you to read. Then he embraced her with
g*eat affe&ion.
Wife. Pray telfme, did God teachee them'write that book?
W. A. Yes> and by that rule we know him to be Gcd.
Wife What way-, what rule you know him?
IK A. Becaufe he teaches wnat is good, juft, and holy;-
and forbids ail wicked and-abominable acYions that incur
his difpleafure.
Wife. 0 me fain underftand that, and if he do all things
you (ay he do, furely he hear me fay O to him ; he rnakee
me good if I wifh to be good; he not kill me if I love him ;.
me tink, believe him great God; me fay O to him, along.
with you, my dear. ...
Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made her
kneel down by him, praying with the greateft fervency*
that God would inftru£t her by hisr Holy Spirit; and that"
God, by his providence, would fend them a Bible for both
their ir.ftruxlions. And fuch was the early piety of this
new convert, that {he made him promife never to forfake
God any more, left being made dead, as fhe called it, flic
mould not-only want her intlru&e*, but himfelf be refer-
able in a lcng eternity.
Such a furprifing account as this was, proved very af«-
feeling to us hothj but particularly to the young clergyman*,
1&
who was mightily concerned he could not talk to her himfelf %
€i Sir," id\d he, <s there is fomeching more to be done to
this woman than to marry her: I mean- that ihe ought to
be bapt'zed." To 'his I pre&aily agreed: ft Vrzy" faid
he, '- afk her hufband, whether he has ever talked to her of
Jefus ChrHt, the falvation of fmners, the nature of faith, and
redemption \vf and by him> a-nd of the Ho'y Spirit, the refur-
recYion, lafl judgment and a future ftate;" but the poor
fellow melted into tears at this quefticn., faying that he had
faid fdmethi.ig to her of thefe things, but his inability to
ta'k of ihera, m?de him afraid, left her knowledge of Ihem
mould ra-.her make h r contemn religion, than be benefited
by it; but that if I would difcourfe with he*, it would be
very evident my labour wculd net be in vain. Accord-
ingly I called her in, and placing myf If as interpreter be-
tween the rt'ligsous prieli and the woman, I entreated him
to go on ; but furely never was fuch a fermon preached by
any clergyman in thefe latter days, with lo much zeal, know-
ledge, and fincerity: in fhort, he. brought thte woman to
embrace the knowledge of Chrift, ard of. wdemptrn by
him, with fo furpifijg a c<g:ee of uoderftanding, that fhe
made <t her cwn requell to be baptized.
He then performed his office in the facrarnent of baptifm,
firil, bv fayri# fome words cv^r to himfelf in L&tin> and
then a fte-tag me to give her a name, as being her godfather;
and foudng. a whole difhful of water upon the woman's
head, he faid, u Maryt I baptize thee in the name of Ihe
Father, and of'the Son, apd of the Holy Giioft;" fo that
none cooid know of wh.3t religion he was. After this he
pronounced (he benediclion in Latin. Thus the woman
being made a Chrifrian* he married her* to Will Atkins:
which be:ng fini'lhed, he affecYiomtely exhorted him to
lead a holy Hfe for the future; a-nd^fince the Almighty, for
Ihe, convicVons o£ his confeierce* had honoured him to be
ihe inftrument of his wife's converficn> he fhould not dif-
honour, the.grace of Gcd, that while, the favage was Gen-
vtrtcd*> the inftruroent mould be-call away, Thus ended a
ceremony, tome, the- moil pleafant and agreeable I ever
pa/Ted in my Infe.
Theajjkirs of the.iflaqdil>e!ngf fowled, I was preparing-io
go on board, when the young man (#hqfe mother was ftsrv-
ed) came to me, faying, that as he underflood-1 had a cler-
gyman- with me, who bad. married the EngJifbinen wfok
favages, he had a match to make between two Chriftians
which be defired might.be fmifhed before 1 departed.—
Thinking that it was he himfelftnat had courted oh mother's
maid, I perfuaded him not to do any thing rafhly upon the
account of his folitary circumftmces; that the maid was an
unequal match for him, both in refpe£t to- fub^'tance and
years; and that it was very probable he would Jive to re-
turn to his r-wn country, whtrehe might have a far better
cho;ce. At thefe words, fouling, he interrupted me, thank-
ing me fcr my good advice; that as he had nothirg to beg
of me but a fmall fettlemen-, with a fervam or Iwo, or Come
few recetlaries, fo he hoped I would not be unmindful of
him, when I returned to England, but give his letter tohis
friends; and tw-at when he was redeemed* the pl«i tation,
and all its improvements* however valuable, mould be re-
turned to me again. Rue as fur the marriage he propo ed,
that it was not bimfelf", bat chat it was between my J^ck-of-
all-tr-des and the maid Sufan.
I was indeed agreeably furprifed at the mentioning this
match, which feetr ed very luitable, the one being a very
ingenious fePow, and the other an excellent dexterous, and
fenfible houfewife,. tit to be governed rf the whole ifland ^
fo we married them tne fame day j and as I was her father
and gave her away, fo I gave her a handfome prrtion, ap-
pointing her and her hufband, a c^nveiuent large fpot of
ground for their plantation. The iharing out of the land I
left to Will Atkins, who really divided it very juftly, to
every perf n'ls fatiifattier they only dejired one general
writing under my hand for the whole,, which I caufed to be-
drawn up, (ign^d, and leased to them- fctting out their
bounds, and ^iviog them a ri^ht to the whole, poffeflmn of
their re'p.clive plantations, with their improvements,, to
them^ and their heirs, referving all the reit of the ifland as
my own property, and*a certain rent for every particular
plantati.n, after eleven >ears. As to their laws and go-
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another; arU -s to
the Indians who Uycd in a nook by themfelves, I all /.tied,
three or four, of them plantations, ar,d th. red willingly
chofc to become fervants to the ether families, by wh;C.k
means they were employed in ufefql labour, and fared
much better than they did before. Befides the favages. beT
ing thus mixed with the Chilians, the work ef thetr con-
verfibn might be fet on foot by the. lattejy in the clergy-
man's abfence, to our equal fatisfaclion. The young priefr,
however, was a little anxicus left the Chriftiars fhould not
be willing to do their pans in inftrucling thefe poor Indi-
ans ; I therefore told him we fhould call them all together;
(hat he fhculd fpeak to the Spaniards who were Papifls,
and I to the linglifh who were Proteftants, and make them
promife that they would never make any diftin&ion in re-
ligion, but'ieach the general true knowledge of God, and
b's Son Jefus Chrift, in ord r to convert the poor favages.
Ana1 thi?, indeed, they all proofed us accordingly.
When 1 came to Will Atkitn's hcufe,, I foundliis baptized
wife, and the )Oung woman newly married to my Jack-of-
al'-trades, were become great intimates, and difcourfing of
religion together, «* O, Sir," fays Will Atkins, " when
God has (inners to reconcile to himfelf, he never wants an
inftrucler; I knew I was unworthy of fo good a work, and
therefore this young woman has been fent hither as it were
from heaven, who is fufficient to convert a whole nation of
favages." T-he young woman blufhed, and was going to
rife; but I deiired her to fit ftill, and hoped th it God.
would blefs her in fo good a work ; and then pulling out
a Bible, (which 1 brought on purpofe in my pocket for him,)
*' Here Atkins," faid I, '' here is an afliflant that perhaps
you had not before." So confounded was the poor man,
that it was fome time before he could fpeak; at laft turning
to his wife, *' My dear," faid he, u did I not tell you that
God could hear what we faid ? Here's the book I prayed
for, v,hen you and I kneeled under thebufh; God fhen
heard us, and now has fent it.*' The woman was furprifed,
and thought really God had fent that individual book from
heaven ; but I turned to the young woman, and deiired her
to explain ro the young convert, that God may properly be
faid to anfwer our petitions, when, in the courle of his pro-
vidence, fuch.particular things came to pafs as we petition-
ed for. 1 his the young woman did effectually ; but furely
Will Atkins's joy cannot be expreffed ; no man being more,
thankful for any thing in die world, than he was for his _
Bible, nor defired it fr m a better principle.
After feveral religious difcourfes, 1 defired the young
woman to give me an account of the anguifh file felt when
flie was ftarving to death with hunger; to which fhe readily
contented', ^nd began in the following manner:
" Sir," faid {he, " all our victuals being gone, after 1 had
faded one day, my ilomach was very fickly, and, at the ap-
proach of night, I was inclined to yawning and fleepy.—
When I flept upon the couch three hours, I awaked a lit-
tle refrefhed : three hours after, my ftomach being more
and'mcre lickly, I lay down again, but could not fteep, be-
ing very faint and ill. Thus I pafTed the fecond day with
a ftrange variety, firft hungry, then iick again, with retch-
ings to vomit: that night I dreamed I was at Ba^badies*
buying plenty of provifions, and dined heartily. But when"
I awakened, my fpirits were exceedingly funk, to find myfelf
in. the exremlty of famine. There was but one glafs of
wine, which being mixed with fugar, I drank up; but f r
want of fubftance to digeft upon, the fumes of it got into
my head, and made me fenfelefs fcr fome time.. The ttird
day 1 was fo ravenous and furious, that I could have eaten
a little child if it had come in my way ; during which time
I was as mad as any creature in Bedlam. In o~e of thefe
fits 1 fell down, and ftruck my face againft the corner of
a pallet-bed, where my miftrefs lay ; the blood gufhtd out
of my nofe, but by my exceftive breeding, both the violence
of the fever, and the ravenous part of trie hunger abated.—
After this I grew jick again, ftrove to vomit but could not;
then bleeding a fecond time, I fwooned away as dead;
when J came to myfelf, I had a dreadful gnawing pain in
my ftomach, which went off towards night, with a longing
defire for food. 1 took a draught of water and fugar, but
it came up again ; then I drank water without fugar,'and
that (laid win me. I laid me down en the bed, praying
God would take me away; after 1 had {lumbered, 1 thought
myfelf a-dying, therefore recommended my foul to God,
and wifhed fome body would throw me into the fea. -All
this while my departing miftrefs lay by me ; the laft bit of
bread fhe had, fhe gave to her dear child, my young matter.
The morning after I fell into a violent pailion of crying,
and after that into hunger. I efpied the blood that came
from my nofe in a bafin, which i immediately fwallowed
up. At ni^ht I had the ufual variations, as the pain in the
ftomach, iick, fleepy, and ravenous; and 1 had no ihought
but that I ihould die before morning. In the morning came
on terrible gnpings in my bowels* At this time I heard my
yourg mailer's lamentations, by which I underilood his
mother was dead. Soon after this, the failors cried, <£ A
fail ! a fail \" hallooing as if they wee diftracled tor joy of
that relief, which afterwards we received from your hands.**
Surety never was a more diilin6t account of ftarvirig to
death than this. But to return to the difpcfition of things
amorg my people. 1 did not take any notice to them of the
(loop that 1 had framed, neither would I leave rhfm the
two pieces of brafs cannon, or the two quarter-deck guns
that I had on board, left upon any difguft, they flioukl have
feparated, or torred pirates, and fo rake the ifland a den,
of thieves, inftead of a plantation of fober, p'ous people:
but leaving them in a flourifhing condition, with a promife
to fend hem further rel-ef from Brazil, as fheep, hogs, and
eous, (being ob'M'ged to kill tSe latter at fea, having no hay
to feed them,) I went on hoard the (hip again, the firft of
May, H)9'5, after having been twenty days among them ;
"and next morr ing,3 piving them a falute of five guns at
parting, we fet fail for ihe Braz'ls. The third day, towards
evening, there happtnig a calm, and the current being
very P.ron?, we were drove to trie N. N. E. towards the-
iand. Some hours after we perceived the fea covered
as it were with lomething very black, not eafily at firft to
be difecvered: upon vvhich our chief mate afcending the
fhrouds a little way, and taking a view with the pcrfpeo
tive glafs, he crie5 out, " An army ! an army \*' u You
fjcl," ("aid I, " what do you mean?" 4> Nay, Sir," faid he,.
" don't be angry, I aflure you it is not only an army, but a
fleet too, for I believe there are a thoufand canoes paddling
Along, and making with great hafte towards us/*
Indeed, every one of us were furprifed at this relation;
and my rephew, the captain, could not tell what to think
of it,, but thought we fhou'cl all be devoured. Nor was I
free from* concern, when Tconfidered how much we were.
becalmed, and what a tfrong current fet towards tKe (hore ;
however, I encouraged, him not to be afraid, but bring the
ihip.to an anchor, as foon as we wer^ certain that we muft
engage them. Accordingly we did fo, and fuiled all our
fails;, as to the favagp-. we feared nothing, but only that
they might fet the fhip on fire ; to prevent which; I ordered
them to get their, bouts out, and faften them orre clofe by the
head, and another by the item, well manned, wno fkeets and
buckets to extinguifh the flames, fliould it lb happen. The
favages foon came up with us, but there were not fo many
as the mate had faid, for inftead of a thoufand canoes there
W4?re only one hundred and twenty ; too many indeed for
us, feveral of their canoes containing abfp* fifteen or feven-
teen men
As they approached us, they feemed to be in the great-
eft amazement, not knowing what to make of us. They
rowed round the (hip, which occafioned us to call to the
men in the boais not :o >uffer them to come near them.—-
Hereupon ihey beckoned to the lavages to keep back, which
tht-y accotdi-.gly did; but at their retreat they let fly ab ut
fiity arrows among u?, and very mach wounded one of our
men in the long-boat. I called to them not to fire upon
aay account, but handing them down fame deal boards, the
carpenters :nade them a kind of fence to fhield them fron
the arrows. In half an hour after they came fo near ailern
of us, that, we had a perfed light of them ; then they rowei
a liale further ou+, till they came dirtily along-lide of u%
and then approached fo near, that taey could hear us fpeak:
this made me order all my men to keep clofe, and get their
guni ready* In the mean time I ordered Friday to go oat
upon deck, and afk them in his language what they meant*
No fooner did he do (a, but fix-of the lavages, who were
in the former canoes, Hooping down, (howed us their
naked backfides, as much as to fay in E->gliih, Kifs our
—r——< but Friday quicky knew wrm this meant, by ita«
mediately crying out they were g nng- to; most; umrarta-.
natdy f-r him, poor creature, who fell under the cloud of
thrre hundred arrows, no \e($ than feven p:ercing through
his body, killing one of die be(kfervaM% and faitafulleft of
compan/an* ia all my foli'ud^s. and afHi&ion*
So, enraged, was I at the death of poor Friday, that the
guns, which before, were eharged only with powder, to
frighten them, I ordered to be loaded with fmall (hot; nor
did ths-gunners fail in.their aim, but at tois broadfide fplit
and overfct thirteen or fourteen of their canoes, whick
killed numbers of them, and fet the reft a f^unming: the
others, fr-jghtened. out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, fcoured away as fai as they could. One
poor wretch our people took up, fwimming for his life, an
hour after. He was very fallen at iirir, (o that he would
neither eas nor fpeak; but i took a way to cure him, by
ordering them to throw him imo the lea, which they did,
and then he came fwimming back like a cork, calling in his
tongue, as 1 iuppofe, to lave him. So we took nim on
board, but was a long time before we could make him fpeak
or understand Enghih : yet when we hud taught h*m» he
told . us, they were, going with their kings to fight a grea*.
battle; and when we afked him, what made them come up
to us? he {aid, u to makee de gre-t wonder look;" lure
it is to be noterl, tnat thoiV narives, and thofe of Africa,
always add two e's at the end of Englifh word?, as makee,
takee, and rhe like, from which it is'a very difficult thing to
make them break off.
Bein£ now under fa'l, we took our Iaft farewell of poor
honed Friday, and interred him wnh all poffibe decency
and folemnity. put'ing him in a coffin, and committing
him t^ the deep, at the fame time caufing eleven guns to
be fired ov^r him. Thus ended the life of one of the moft
grateful, fnithfui, honeft, and affectionate fervants, that ever
any man,was blefled with in the world.
Having n^w a fair wind for Brazil, in about twelve days
time wk rmde land in ihe laitude of five degrees fbuth of
the li-.e. Four days we kept on S. by E.in fight of flu re,
when we made Capt. St. Aueuftine, and in three days we
came up to an anchor ofF the B . v of all Saints. I had great
difficulty here to get leave to hold correfpondence on (bore;
for neither the figure of my partner, my t*o merchant truf-
tees,. nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
ifland, could procure me the favour, till fuch time as the
pdor of the monailery of the Augufiines (to whom 1 had
given 500 moidores) ob ained leave from the Governor, for
me, perfonally, with the Captain and one mnre, together
with eight faik-rs, to come on fhore ; upon this condition,
that we fhould not land any goods out of the fhip, nor
carry any perfon away without licence: I found means*
however, to get on fhore three bales cf Englifli goods, fuch
as (inn broad cloths, fluffs, and fome linen, which I brought
as a prefent for my partner, who had fent me on bsard a
preferu of frefh provisions, wine, and fweetmeats, worth
about thirty moidores, including fome tobacco, and three-
or four fine gold medals.
Here I delivered my partner in goods to the value of
100/. fierling, and obliged him to fit up the floop I bought
for the ufe of my illand, in order to fend them refrelhmerits;
and fo a&ive was he in this matter, that he had the vefTel
finifhed in a few days, to the matter of which I gave par-
ticular inftru&lons to fiod the place. I foon loaded him
with a fmall cargo; and one of our failors offered to fettle
there, upon my letter to the Spanilh governor, if I would
allot him tools and a plantation. Tnis I willingly granted^
and gave him the lavage we had taken prifoner to be his
flave. Ail things being ready for the voyage, my pld
partner tolJ me there was an acquaintance of his, a Brazil
planter, who having fallen under the difpleafire of tne
church, and in fear of the Inquifnion, which obliged him to
be conceded, would ^e glad of fuch an opportunity to
make ids efcape, wsth his wife and two daughters ; ard if I
would allot them a plantation in my j(Und, he w.-uii give
them a fmall flock to begin with, for that thi officers hid al-
ready f ized his efTefls and eftate, and lef. him nothing but
a little noufehoUi ft^fFar>d Iw j (laves. This requeit I pre-
fently gran.ed, concealing him ad his fanilv on board our
fhip, till iucn time as rhe fl op (where all the efFeds were)
was gone out of tf,e bay, and then we put them on b:'ard,
who cam.d lomc materials, and plants f>r planting f gar-
canes, ak-ng wi<h tbem. By this do p, among other things,
I fent my fubjects three milch c~ws and live calves, about
22 hogs, three fews big with pig, two mares an I a ftj.ne-
horfe. I alfo engaged three Portugal women to go for fake
of the Spaniard*, which, with the p^rfecuted man's two
daughters, were fuffkient, fince the reft had wives of their
own, though in another country; all which cargo arrived fafe,
no doubt, to their exceeding comfort, who, with this addi-
tion, were about fixty or feventy people, befides children.
At this place, my truly honeft and pious clergyman left
me; for a (hip being ready to fet fail for Lifbon, he afked
me leave to go thither; but I aflure you.it was with the
greateft reluctance I parted from a perfon, whofe virtue
and piety merited the gre^teft efteem.
From the Brazils, we made directly over the Atlantic
Ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a tolerable good
voyage, fleering for the mod part S. E. We were on a
trading voyage, and had a fupercargo on board, who was
to direct all the fhip's motions after the arrived at the Cape,
only being limited to a certain number of days, for (lay, by
charter party, at the feveral ports (he was to go to. At the
Cape we only took in frelh water, and then failed for the
coaft of Coromandel; we were there informed, that a Frerch
man of war of 50 guns, and two large mercnant (hips, were
failed for the Indies, but we heard no more of them.
In our paflage, we touched at the ifland of Madagafcar,
where, though the inhabitants are naturally fierce and trea-
icherous, and  go confta;»tly armed with bows and lances,
yet /or forre tim thev treated us civilly encugh ; and, in
exchange for knives, fciflbrs, anloth.-r trifles, they brought 
us eleven good fat bullocks, which we tork partly Br pre-
ien' victuals, and the reminder to fait for the (hip's ufe.
So curi> ijs was I to view every cornerof the world where
I came ;o, tht I went on (bore as often as I could. One
evening whet, on (bore, we obferved numbers of the people
flanJd gazir.g at us at a dii'ance. We thought ourfelves in
no darger, as they had hitherto ufed us kindly. However
we cu; three b< ughs cut of a tree, lacking'them'at a diftance
from us, which it feeiss in that countr>, is not only a token
of truce and am ty, but when po es cr boughs are let up on
the o her fide, it is a fign he truce is accepted. In
thefe treate?, however, there i* one principal thing to be
regarded, that neither party com*' beyond one another's
three poles cr boughs; fo that the middle fpace is not only
fecure, but is alfo allowed as a market hr traffic 2nd com-
merce. When the truce is thus accepted, they itick up
their javelin** and iance- at the nrft poles, arui come tm un-
armed ; but if any violence is offered, away thev run to
their po es, uke up their wcapens? ard then the truce is
a; an end. Ttiis- evening it happened thn a greater num~-
bcr of people than ufoal, bo h men ami women, traded
among us fcr fech toys as we had, with fech great civility,
thfatiwe made us a little tent, oflarg^ boughs or trees, (omc
of the men refolving to lie on fhore ail night; but for my
part, I and fome others took our lodgifgs in the boat* with
boughs of tree- fpread over ir, having a fail fpread at the
bottom to lie upm. About two o'clock in the morning we
were awakened by the* firing of mufkets and our men cry-
ing, out for h>:Ip, or elfe they w^uld all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to g«t the b'^at amore^ when our men came
plunging t-he-mfelve* in*o the \*a er," with about rour hun-
dred of the ifland-crs at their heels. We tcok up (even of
the mm, three cf them very much womded,, ar.d one left
behind killed, while the eremy poured their arrows fo
thick among us, that we were forced to make a barricado^
with boards lying at the fide of the bat, to fliieid us from
clanger; and, having- got ready our fire-arms, we returned
them a volley, which wounded feveral of.them, as\vecould
hear by their cries. In this condition we lay till break of
day, and then making fig nab of dilbefjs to the fhip, which.
my nephew, thecapi?in, heard and underflow, he weighed
anchor, and flood as near the (bore as poffib^e, and then
fj» t another boat wah ten hands ir, her to affift us; but we
called to them not to come n^ar, informing therm of our un-
happy condition. However they ventured; when one of
the men rak:ng the end of a tow*lir.e in one hand, and keep-
ing our boat between rrm £nd cur adverfiries, fwam to us
and flippirg ur cables, thev towed us out of reac'» of their
arr ws, anJ. quickly after a brosdtid-e was givri them from
the fliip, which made a mod dreadful havock among them.
When "we g"t on board, w*e examined into the occaGon of
this fray. Th.* men who fhd informed us thai an old wo-
man, who Od rrnfe within the poJes, hVd broaght a young
woman with her, who carried roots and herbs the tight of
whom fo much -empted our men, that ih*y offered rude-
nefs to the maid, at which the old woman fee up a great
cry ; nor would the failors part wit"? their prize, but carried
her among the tiees, while the old woman went and
brought a whole army down upon them. At the beginning
of the attack, one of our men was killed with a ]-nee, aod
the fallow who began the mifehief paid dear enough for
his rniftrefs, though as yet we did not know what hid be-
come of hhn; !he reft luckily efcaped. The third night
after the action, being curious to understand how affairs
itood, 1 took*the fupercargo and twemv (tout fellows with
me,and landed abcui t-wo hours before midnight at the fame
place where thofe Indians flood the night before, and there
we divided our men into two bodies, the boitl'wain com-
manding one, and I another. It was fo dark, that we
could fee nobudy, neither did we hear any voice near us;
but by and by the boatfwsin falling over a dead body, we
agreed to hah till the moot* mould rife, which we knew
would be an hour after. ^Ve perceived here no fewer than
two and thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were
not quite dead. Satisfied with thi* difcovery, I was for go-
ing on board again; but the boatfwain and t.\e reft told me,
they would make a vifit to the Indian town, where thefe
dqgs, To they celled them, refided^ &&ir.g me at the fame
time to,go along wh'h them, for they did not dmrbt, betides
getting a good booty, but they ihould find Tom JefFery
there, for that was the urbappy man «e miffed. JB-t;I
utterly refufed to go, and commanded them back, being
unwilling to hazard their lives, as the fafety of the uYp
wholly depended upo*» them. Notwithftanding all I could
fay to them, they a 1 left roe but one, and the fuperca^go;
fo ne three returned t^ the boat, where a boy was left, re-
folving to i^av '.ill thev returned. At parting I t< Id them
I fuppofed rroft of them would run the fame fate with Tom
JefY-ry. To (his ;hey replied, u Come boys come along,
we'll warrant we*ll come off fafe enough;" and (o as*ay
ihey went nrtwrthftanding al! my admonitions* either con-
cerning their own fafety or tre preservation of the ftiip.^—
Ind-cd they were gallantly armed, every m^n having a
mufket, bayonrt, a-^d a pift J, befties cudafTe*, hangers,
pole-axes, and hand-granades. They came to a few In-
dian houfesat fir ft, which not being the town they expected,
tFey went farther, and rinding a cow tied to a tree, they
concluded that me would be a fufficient guide, and fo it
proved; for after thev untied her, {he led them d redly
to the v wn> which confiiled of above two hundred houfes,
feveral families living in feme of the huts together. At
their arrival, all r-c-rgin a profound fleep, the faiiors agned
to divide themfelves into three b die*, and fet three parts
of the town en fire at once, to kill thole that were efcaping,
and plunder the reft of the houfes. Thus defperately re-
folved, they went to work ; but the firft party had not
gone fer before th< y called to the reft that they had found
Tom Jelfery ; whereupon they all ran up to the place, and
found the poor fellow indeed hanging up naked by oac
arm, and his throat alrnoft cut from e*tr to ear. In a lioufe
that was hard by the tree, they found iixteen or fevenieen
Indians, wh?« had been concerned in the frav ; two or three
of (ham being wounded, wee not gone to ileep: this hviife
thev fet on fire firnV and in a few m nutes afer, five o. fix
places m re in the town appeared in flames. The confla-
gration fpread like wild-lire, tneir houfes being all of wood,
and covered with flags or rnfhes. The poor affrgJited in-
habitants endeavoured to run out <o fave their lives, but
they were driven back into the flames by the fa.lots, and
killed withem mercy, - t the firft houfe above men ioned,
after the boatfwun had fla>n two with his pole <.xe, he threw
a hand-g/ana-^e inn the h. ufe. which burning, ma;e a ter-
rible havock, killing and wounding moft t f them; and their
k'wj and molt of h*s trai^, *ho were in ha* houfe, tell
victims to their fury, every creature of them be^ng either
fmcotkered or burnt. All t';L while they never fired a gun,
left the people fhould awaken (aOer trail they could over-
 power them. But the fire awakened them fall enough,
which oSliged oar fellows to keep together in bodies. By
this time the whole town was in a fhroe, yet the /try ta-
mer incre*fi d,calling out to one another fo rrmember Tom
J.jfFery. The terrible Ugru of this conflagration ma^e me
very uneafy, and roufed my nephew the Captain, and ihe
rffl of his men, who knw nothing of the rrater. When
he perceived- the dreadful fmoke, and heard the guns go
eft. he rea.Hly concluded his men were in danger; he there-
fore takes another boat, and co^es afhore himfelf, wixh
th:r een men well armed. He was greatly furprifed to iee
me and on'y tvio men in the boat, btr. more To whe I told
him the Lb.ry; but though I urged with him, as I did
-with (he men, about the dangers of the voyage, the kuerefts
•.of-he merchants and owners, and the fafety of the ibip, yet
mv nephew, like the reft, declared, that ne would rather
jofe tre (hip, his voyage, his life and all, nan his men ihould
be loft /or want of help ; and fo away he we t. Fur my
part, feeing him refoJved to .go, I had not power to ilay
behind He ordered the pinnace back again for ^welve
men more, arid then we marched directly as t e flame
guided us. But furely never was iuch a fce^e of terror
beheld, or more difmal cries h-ard, except w en Oliver
Cromwell took Drogheda, in Ireland, vyher. he neitber
fpared man, women, .nor child.
The firft object, I think, we met with, was the ruins of
one of their habuations, before whicn lay four men and three
women killed, and two more burnt to deau amxKg the fire,
which was now decaying. Nothing coula appear mare
barba-ous than this revenge; none more cr ;el than the
authors of it. As we went on, the fire increafed, and the
cry proceeded in prop rt;on. We had rot gone much far-
ther, when we beheld th*ee raked women, followed by fix-
teen cr feven-een me\ flying with the great-ft: fwificefs
from our men, who.mot one of r»hem in cm .figr.t. When
they perceived u-, whom they fupp> ted alfo their murderess,
they fvt up a m >ft dreadhil fhriek, and bot^ of them fwot n-
ed away in fright. This was a fight which might nave
foftened the hardeft heart; and i.. pity we too* frroe wa\s
to let them icnow we would not hurt them, while ihe poor
creaturesj with bended knees and bUed-up hands, made
piteous lamentations to us to fave their lives. I ordered
cur men not to Kurt ?ny of the poor ere-Uures whatfoe%er;
but beino wining to unrierftand the occafion of all this; I
went among thefr unhappy wietches, who neiiher ender-
fkod me nor the good I nv^t them. However, being
refolved to put z*n end to this barbarity, I ordered the men
to follow,me. We had not gore fifty yards before uecame
up with thj boatfwaiw, with iour of cur rr.en at his heels, all
of them covered with, blood and d-uft, and in fearch of more
people to fatiate their vengeance. A-Toon as wefaw them
we called out ard made them underftand who we were;
upon which they dme uo to us, fetting up a halloo of tri-
«« pb, in token that more help was come. u Ncble Captain,"
laid he io my nephew, if I'm glad )Ou're ccme ; we have
net half done vsith thefe vilianous hellhound dcgi; we'll
joot on the verv naticn of them from the earth and kill
more than poor Tom has hairs upco his he?d :" and thus he
went en till 1 interrupted him—** Blood-thinly <iog," fa-id
1, "will your cruelty never end f I charge )OU touch n t one
creature more; flop jour hands and hand Hill, t-ryouVe
a dead man this moment.** Jt Why, Sir," faid he, "you
neither know whom you are protecting, nor what ti.ey have
<3onf : but pray come hither, and behold an infUnce of
compandor*, if fuoh can merit >our clemency ;" and *ith
that he mewed me the poor fellow with his throat cut,
hanging upon the tree.
Indeed, here was enough to fill t*heir breafls w*th rage,
which, however, I tluught had gone too far, agreeable w*
thefe wcrds of Jarob to his dins Simeon and Levi: " Curfed
be their a^get, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel." But this fight made my nephew and the
reft as bad as they: nay, my nephew declared, his con-
cern was only for his men: as for the people, rot afoul
cf the>m ought to live. Upon this, tive boatfwain &v,d.eight
moredlrcclly turned about, and went toiinifhthe intendetl
tragedy; which being c ut of my power to prevent, Ire-
turned b--ck irem the difmal iightj and the piteous cries of
thofe unfortunate creaturfs, who were made s^clims to their
fury. Indeed it was an egregicus piece of folly in me to
return to the boat with but ore attendant; and L had very
near "paid for it, having narrcwly eft-aped forty armed In-
dians, who had been alarmed by the conflagration ; but
having paiFed the place where they flood, I £0t to the bo&t,
accompanied with the fupercargo, and fo went on board,
fending the pinnace back again, to aflilt the men in what
might happen. When I had got to the boar, the fire was
almofr. extinguifhed, and the noile abated ; but I had fcarce
been half an hour on board the fhip, when I heard another
volley given by cur failors, and a great fmoke, which, as I
afterwards found, was our men falling upon trofe hoofei
and perfons that flood between them and the fea; bat here
they fpared the wives and children, and killed only the men,
to the number of about fixteen tr feventeen. By the time
they got to the more, the pinnace and the ftnp's boat were
ready to receive them, and they all got hfe on board, not
a man of them having received the Jeaft hurt, except two,
one of them having (trained his foot, and the other burnt his
hand a Ihtle ; for they met with no reiiftance, the poor
Indians being unprepared, amazed, and confounded
I was extremely angry with every one of them* but par-
ticularly with the captain, who, inflead of cooling .the rage
of the men, had prompted them on to further mifchu-f: nor
could he make me any other excufe, but that as he was a
man, he could not mailer his piifions at the fight of one of
his men fo cruelly murdered* As for the reft, knowing
they were not under my command, they took ro notice of
my an?er, but rather boafled of the:r revenge. According
to all ther accounts, they killed or deftroyed abcut 150
men, v.omen, and children, befides burnin? the tovin to
afre5. '1 hey tec k their companion Tom jcfflry frrm the
tree, covered him with forre of the ruins* and fo left him.
But however this acVton of our men might feem to them
juilifiable, >et 1 always openly condemned it with the ap*
pellation of the Tslaflacre of Madagascar. For though the
natives had (lain this JefTery, yet cenainly he was the Hrft
aggretTor, by attempting to violate the chaflity of a young
innocent woman, who ventured down to them, on the faithof
the public capitulation, which was fo treachercuily broken.
While we were under fail, the boatiwain would often
defend his bloody action, by faying, that the Indians had
broke the truce the night before, by fhoolino- one of cur
men without juft provocation: and what if the poor fellow
had taken a Ji'tle liberty with the wench, he ought not to
have bten murdered in fo villanous a manner f and that
they had a&ed nothing but what the divine laws commit"-
Coned to be done to fuch homicides. However I was In
K
the fame mind as before, tel'ins them that \hey were mur-
derers, and bid them depend upon it that Gt d woAd blafi
their voyage, for fu:h an tnparalltled piece of barbarity.
When we came to the Gulph ef Perfia, five ef our men
who ventured on fhcte, wv.t either killed or made flaves
by the Arabians, ihe reft of them having fcarce time to
efcape to their boat. This made me upbraid them afreth
w\itth the retribution of Heaven for fuch action?; upon
which the boatfwsin very warmly afk:d me, " Whether
thofe men on whom the tcwer of Siloam fell, were greater
firners than the reft of the Galileans ? and bsfidrs, Sir,'*
faid he, " none of thefe five poor men that are loft were
with us at the Ma fiacre of Madagafcar, as you call it, and
there fore.your representations are very unjuft, and your ap-
plication improper. Betides,", added he, u you are con-
tinually ufirg the men very id upsn this account, and, be-
ing but a pafienper yourfelf we are not ob'iged to bear it ;
nor can we tell what t-v\\ deigns you may h.>ve to bring us
to judgment for it in England ; and, therefore, if you do
not leave this difrourfe, as alfo not concern ycutfelf vvith
any of our affairs, Twill leave tlve (hip, and not fail among
fuch dangerous company."
All this I heard very patiently; bujr. it being often re-
peated, I at length told him, the concern I had on board
was none of his bufmefs; that I was a considerable owner
in the fhip, and therefore had a right to fpeak in common*
and that I w*s no way accountable co him, nor any body
elfe. As no more-patted fcr forne time after, f thought
a'l had been over. At this time we were in the road of
Bengal, wh^re, going on more with the f.percargo cneday,
in the evening, a* I was preparing to go on b ;a d, one of
the men came to roe, and told me, I need not trouble my-
fdf. to come to the boat, for that the ccckfwa*n and others
had ordered him n< t to carry me on bo^id any .more. This
infolent nu'ttage much furprifed me, yet I gave him no
anfvver to it, but went directly and acquainted the fuper-
cargo, entreating, him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the Captain with it, prevent, the mutiny which-I perceived
would happen. But be/ore 1 had fpuke this, the matter
was effrcucl on board; for no fooner was he gone off in
the boat, but the boati'wain, gunner, carpenter, and all the
inferior oAkers* came to the quarter-deck, defiring to fpeak
with the Captain; and there.the boa.tfvva.iri made a long
harangue, exclaiming againft me, as he fore-mentioned, that
if I had not gone on fhore peaceably for my own diverfion,
they, by volence, would have compelled me, for their fa-
tufa c (ion : that as they.had fhippsd with the Captain, fa
they would faithfully ferve him; but if I did not quit the
fhip, or the Captain oblige me to it, they would leave the
jfhip immediately : hereupon, turning his face about, bv
way of fignal, they all cried out, *' ONE and ALL! ONE
and ALL 1"
You ma) be fure, that though my nephew was a man of
great courage, yet he could not .but be furpdfed at their
iudden and unexpected behaviour; and though he talked
fkutly to them, and afterwards cxpoilulaced with them,
that in common juftice to me, who was a considerable own-
erin the ibip, they could not turn me, as it were, out of my
own houfe, which might bring their lives in danger ihoold
they e?er be taken .in England ; nay, though he invited the
boatfwain on jfhore to accommodate matters with me, yet-
all this, 1 fay, fjgnified roihing ; they would have nothing to
do with me; and they were rtfclved to go on ihore n I
came on board. t( Well/' faid ray nephew, "it you are
fo refolved, permit me to talk with him," and then ] h&ve
dene ;i} and lb he came to me, giving me an account of their
refolution, how one and all defigned to for fake the Jhip
when I came on board, for which he was mighsily"concern*
ed. u 1 am g'ad to lee you, nephew/' faid l,-4' and rejoice
it is no woiivj, fince they hive not recalled againlt you ;
1 only deli re you to fend my neceffa ry things on fhore,
with a fufheient fum of mot ev, and I will find my *>ay to
England as well as 1 can." Though this grieved my ne-
phew to the heart, yet toere was r,o remedy but compliance.:
in fhorr, all my neceiTaries were f.nt to me, and fo this
matter was over, in a lew hours.
1 think J was now near.a thoufsnJ leagues farther ofr
England by fea, than at my liule kingdom, except tnis dtj-
Jertrce, Mat I might travel by lar.d ovi r the Great Mogul's
country to Sur*u, Jrom ih-.nce to BafTcra, by fea up the
pc^li n Gu'ph, tfceo take me way of the caravans over t..e
AraiLn Defcuto Aluppo a«d Scanderoon, there take ihip-
ping to Italy, and (o travd by land into France, and from.
thence acrois the fea to England.
My nephew left me two p^tfons to atlerd me ; one of
th.oj was his fervans, and, the other cleik'to the purfer,
K 2
who engaged to be mine. ' I took lodgings in an EngHfo
woman's houfe, where feveral French, one Englifh, and two
Italian merchants redded. The handfome entertainment
I met with here, occasioned me to flay nine months, con-
fidering what courfe I (hould take. Some Englifh goods
I had with, me of great value, befides a thcufand pieces of
eight, and a letter for more, if there was fuch neceffity.—-
The goods I foon difpofed of to advantage, and bought here
feveral good diamonds, which I could eafiiy carry about
with rre. One morning the Englifh merchant-came to me,
as being very intimate together, <c Countryman," faid he,
" [ have a prject to communicate to you, which I hope
will fuit to both our advantage.. To be fhort, Sir, we are
both in a remote part of the world from our country ; but
yet in a place where men of bufinefs may get a great deal
of money. Now, if you will put a theufand pounds to my
thoufand pounds, we will hire a fhip to our fatisfaction;
you (hall be Captain, I will be merchant; and we'll go a
trading voyage to Cl^na, for why fhould we lie ftill like
drones, while the whole world is in continual motion."
This prc>pofal foon got my confent; being very agreeable
to my rambling genius ; and the more fo, becaufe I looked
upon my countryman to be a v^ry fincerf p?rfon; it re-
quired fome time before we could get a vcffcJ to cur mind,
and failcrs to man it accordingly ; at length we bought a
fhip, and got an Englifh mate, boatfwain, and gunner, a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguefe foremaft-rneo ; and,
for want of others, made fhift with Indian feamen. We firfl
failed to Achin, in the ifland of Sumatra, and thence to Siam,
where we bartered our wares for fome arrack and opium,
the laft of which bore a great price among the Chinefe; in
a word, we went up to Sufkan, making a very great voyage;
and, after eight months time, I resumed to Bengal, very well
fatisfied with this adventure, having not only got a fofficient
quantity cf money, butaninfightof gettingagreat deal more.
The next voyage my friend propoied to me, was to go
among the Spice iflands, and br=ng home a load of cloves
from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; iflands belonging part-
ly to Spain, but where the Dutch trade very confiderably.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage, which we
made ro lef*. fuccefsful than the laft, touching at Borneo,
2nd feveral other places which I do not perfectly remem-»
b*r, ar:d returned home in about five months time. We
foon fold oar fpices, which wee chief!y cloves and fome
nutmegs, to the Perfian merchant, who carried them away
for the Gulph ; and, in fhort, making five to one advantage
we were loaded vviihmo-ney.
Not long after my friend and Ihad made up our accounts,
to our ent're fatufacti. n, there came in a Dutch coafi.tr
frrm Baiavia, of about two-hundred tons. The crew of
this vcflel pretended tnemfelves fo ficLly, that there were
not hands fuiiicient to undertake a voyage ; and the Captain
having given out that he intended t, go to Europe^ public
notice was given that the ihip was to be frld." No fooner
di.i tab come to our cars, but-we bought i\a fhip, paid the
mailer, and took- pofieffion. We would alfo have very
willingly entertained fome of the. men; but they having
received their (hare of bcotyf were not to be found, being
altogether flvdto Agra,- the great city of f.e Mogul's refi-
d-ence: and from thence went to travel to Surat, an J fo by
the fea to the Perfian Gulph. And indeed tney had reafon
to fly in this -manner; for the truth of it was, the pretended
Captain was the gunner only, and not the commander;
that having been on a trading voyage, they were attacked
on the more by the Malayans, who killed three men and
the. Captain ; after whofe death the other eleven men run
away withthe thlp to the Bay of Bengal, and left the mate
and five men more on fhorej but of this affair we mall
have occafion to fpeik more at length hereafter.
However they came by the fhip. .we thought we bought
it honeiMy : neither did we fufpedl any thing of the matter,
when the man fho*ed us a bill of fale for the ihip (undoubt-
edly forged) to one Emanuel Clofterfhoven, which name he
went by. And fo, without any more to do, we picked up
fome Du'ch and Englifh feamen, refolving f.r another voy-
age for cloves among the Philippine and Molucca iflands ;
in fhort, we continued thus five or fix years, trading from
port to port with extraordinary fuccefs. In the feventh
year, we undertook a voyage to Chma, designing to couch
at Siara, and buy fome rice by the way. In this voyage
contrary winds beat us up and down for a considerable time
>arnong the iflands in the Straits of Molucca. No fooner
were we clear of thofe rugged feas, but we perceived
our ihip had fprung a leak, which obliged us to put imo the
river Cambodia, which lies northward of the Gulph, and
goes up to Siam,
K3
One day, as I was on fhore refreshing myfelf, there
came to me an Engli/hman, who was a gunner's mstc on
board an Englirn Baft-India (hip, riding up the river near
the city of Cambodia : " Sir," faid he, <( you may wonder
at my bufi^iefs, having never feen me in your life; bat Iho*
I am a ilranger I have fomething to tell yea that very near-
ly concerns you ; a'rjd indeed it is the imminent danger you
are in has moved me to give you this timely notice/'—-
*• Danger !" faid I, " what danger? I know of none, ex-
cept my flrlp being leaky, fir which Idefign to have her
run aground to-morrow morning,*' "I hope you will be
better employed when you dial? hear what I have to fay to
you, Voa know the town of Cambodia is about fifteen
leagues up this river; about three leagues on this fide of it,
there lie two Dutch and three Engliih mips. Ar.d w: aid
you venture here without con/leering what frrergth you
have to engage them ?" I knew not what he meant by this
difcourfe, and turning fhoft upon him, " Sir," faid I, *( l
Know no reafon 1 have to be afraid either of any Dutch or
Engliih mips. I am no interloper, and what bafine"fs have
ihey with me ?" 4i Well, Sir/* faid the man, "if ^ou do
think youifelf fecure, all as I can fay, you moft take youf
chance; however, I am very ferry you are fo deaf to gond
advice ; but I allure you, if ycu do riot put to fea immedi-
ately, you wilPbe attacked by five long-boats full of men,
hanged yourfelf for a p'raie, if you are taken, and rhe par-
ticulars examined afterwards. I thought, Sir," Added he,
*' I might have met a belter reception for fuch a lingu-
lar piece of fcrvke," "Sir/' faid I, u I never was un-
grateful to any man ; but pray explain yoorfeif, ansd I'll go
on board this minute, whether the leak be flopped dr no/*
t< Why, Sir,5' faid he, u to be fhort, becaufe time is precious,
the matter is this: You know well enough that yOa was:
with the ihip at Sumatra, when your Captain was murdered
by the Malayans, with three of his failors ; and that either
you, or fome who were on boird you, ran away with the
flip, and are fince turned pira es at fea. Nov*', Sir, this
is the aim of what I have to fay j and I can pofiuvely adore
you, teat if yGU are taken, you will be executed without
much ceremony, for undoubtedly you cannot but be fen-
iicle what little law merchant (hips ihow to pirates, when-
ever they fall into their hands.-"
4< Sir/* faid I, " I thank you for your kind information ;
and though I am fare no man coA$ come more handily
by the'fhip than I have done, yet knowing their enierprize,
and being fatisiie-i of y^m- tK-neil intention, Til be upon my
defence."* <* Prithee, Sir," laid the man, " don't talk of
being upon ycuf defence, th? bell th'-t you can make is 10
be out of danger ; ard, therefore, if jou have any regard for
your life, and the lives of yoar men, take* the advantage,
without fail, of putting-out to fra at high-water; by »hick
mean*,- as-yoa have a v\ hole tide before 3 ou, yeuwiii be goce
too far oat of rheir reach before they c>n come down."
" I am mightily well fatisEed," /aid I, *** ia this panicuUr;
and for your kindnsfs, wnich mer'ts my great esteem, pray>
Sir, what amends {hall I make yeu?" He replied, 4i i kns^
net what amends }ou are willing to make, became yru
may have fome doubts of its certainty : bat, to convince
you of the truth of what I fay, 1 have one offer to make to
you. On board one of the Englifh faips, I have nineteen
months pay due to me, and this Dutchman that is with me*
has feven months pay due to him, which if yoa will make
good to us, we will ^6 along wi.h yoa. If you ihall fttid
that there is nothing in what we have faid, then we fhall
defire nothing; but when yoa are convinced that we have
&vcd the fhip, your life, and the lives of the men, we ihafl
leave the whole to yoar generofity. ;
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I immedi-
ately confented, and we went direclly on board. As Coon
as we came on board, my partner calls joyfully out, f* Thai
they had flopped the leak!*1 " Well, thank God,5' hid U
*.*but pray let os weigh anchor forthwith.—t4 Weigh I"
feid he, u what is the meaning of this hurry s" se Pray a(k
na queilio^&j" faid Ij ** but all hands to work, without
luting a moment's time/' Upon which, in great furpnfe^
the Captain was called, who immediately crdered the anchor
to be g^t up: and though the tide was not quite down,5
yet being a Silled with a little land breeze, ^e Hood to tea.
j I then called mv partner into the eabb, and related the
flory at large, which was confirmed and mare amplified by
tl*e two nun I had brought On bo^rd. Scarce had we
finiOled Our difecurfe upon this head, but a failor came to
t'he cabin door> with a meiFige from the Captain, mat we
"ft'ere chafed by five (l>cps full of armed men. *rVery
\vdl,"^ faid I, u it is plain now there is fomething in it.";—
&nd fo> going upon deck, I tcid all t^e men there was a
• defign for feeing the (hip, and of executing us for pirates*
and aiked them whether they would faithfully ftand by us»
and by one anoiher fn To wivch they unznin^oufly replied*
"That they would fight to their laft drop of blood," I
then afted the Cap ain> which way he thought bell for us
to manage the battle?. " Sir," laid he, " the only method
is to keep'them ofF with our great ftict as long as we are
able, and then have recourfe to our froall arms; and when
botfr thefe fail u*, then retire to clofe quarters, when per-
haps the enemy, wanting materials, can nei.h^r break open
cur bulk-heads, nor pet m upon us." Mean-time ihe gun-
ner was ordered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out
of the Peerage, and fo load them with mutket-bullets and
(mail pieces of old iron; and the deck being cleared, we
prepared for the engagement, flill, however, keeping out
at iea. The boats followed us with all the fail they could
make, and we could perceive the two foremoft. were Eng-
Jim, which outfaited the rell by two leagues, and which v\e
found would come up with us : hereupon, we fired a gum
without ball, intimating that they mould bring to, and we
put out a flag of truce, as a figr.al for parley ; but finding
them crowding after us, till ;hey came within mor, we took
in our white, and hanging out the red flag, isnrnediasely
fired at them with ball: we then called to them with a
fpeaking trnmpet, bidding them at their peril keep off.
But all this fignifkd nothing ; for depending upon the
fuength thdt fallowed them, they were refclutely bent for
jmifchief: hereupon I o dsred them to bring the (hip to, by
which means, they lying upon our broadfiJe, we let fly at
them at once, ore of whonri carried away the item of the
hinrfermoft boat, and obliged them not only to take down
fheir fail, but made them a4 run to the head of the boat, to
keep them from finking, and fo (he Jay by, having enough
of it. In the mean time, ue prepared to welcome the fore-
moft boat in the fame manner. While we were doing this,
one of the three hin~ermo(t boats came up to the relief of
that which was difabled, and took the mm out of her. We
again called to parley with them; but, instead of an anfwer,
one of the boats came clofe uoder our fhrn ; whereupon
our gunner let fly his two chafe guns, but miffing, the men
in the boat ihouted, and waving their caps, came on with
greater fury. To repair this teeming difgrace, the gunner
ioon got ready, and firing a fecond lime, did a great deal of
mKchief among the enemy. We waved again, and bsing-
in^ our quarter to bear upon them, fired three guns more,
when we found the boat a finking, and feveral men already
in the fea j hereupon, manning our pinnace, 1 ^ave orders
to fave as many as they could, and inftaoliy to come on
board, becaufe the reft of their boats were approaching :
accordingly they did fo, asd took up three of them, one of
whom was almoft pall recovery ; and then crowding ali the
fail we could, after our men came on board, we flood out
farther to fea, fo that the other three boats gave over the
chafe, when they came up to the firft two. Thus delivered
from imminent danger, we changed our courfe to the eaft-
ward, quite out of the courfe of a1! European mips.
Being now at fea, and inquiring more particularly of the
two feamen, the meaning or ail this, the Dutchman at once
let as into the ft-cret. ,.He told us that the fellow who fold
m the fh.jp was an arrant thief, who had run away witn her;
that the captain was treacheroufly murdered on the coaft
of Molucca by the natives there, with three of his men ;
that he, the Dutchman,, and four .more, .being obliged to
have recourfe to the woods for their farety, at lengf; efcaped
by means of a Dutch fhip,. in its way. to-China, w.hxh had
fent their boat on fhore ior frefh water; thp.t, afier this,
he went to Baiavia; there two of the feamen belonging to
the* fhip. (who had defer ted the reft in their travels) arrived,
and there gave an account that the fellow who ran away
with the fhip.had fold her at Bengal to a fet ol pirates, who.
went a cruifing, and had already taken one Engiifhand two
Dutch, Ihips richly, laden, .
tinw, though this was. abfolutely falfe* my partner truly
faid,. that our deliverance was w be efteemed fo much the
more, by veafon, had.we fallen inlo their hands, w$ could
have expected nothing from them but immediate death,
confidering our.aceafers would have been our judges; and,
the.efore, his op.nidi was to return directs t - Uen^nl,
where, being known, we could prove hnv honeftly we c imc
by the fhip, of whom we bought her, and tiVoiike, and
where we. were fure of fome j a dice ; at leail w;m.d not be
hanged rlrfl and judged afterwards. I was at hrfi of my
partner's opinion, but when I had more ferioufjy c-niider-
ed of the matter, I.told him we ran a grea*. haaird in at-
tempting to return, being on the wrong fide of the Straits
K5
of Molucca, and that, if, upon alarm given, we mould be
taken by the Dutch at Batavia, or Engttfh elfewhere, car
running away wculd be a fufiicient evidence to condemn us.
This danger indeed ftarlied not only my partner, but like-
wife all the (hip's company; fo we changed our former re-
solution, and, refolved to go to the cbaft of Tonquin, and
fo to that of China, where purfuing oar firft defien as to
tries,, we might like wife have an opportunity to difpofe of
the fitip forre way or other, and to return to Bengal, in any
'country veflel we could procure. This fc>eingt agreed ce,
we fieered away N. NT. E. about 50 leagues off the ufual
courfe to the eaft, whxh put us to fome inconveniencef.
As theui^d blew fleadiiy againt* us, cur voyage became
"more tedious, and we bsgan to be afraid vf want of provt-
tions; and what was ftil! worfe, we ape-rehended that as
thofe (hips, from whofe boats we rrid efcared, w^re bo-rnd
to Chira3 they might get before us, and have given frclh
information, which might create another vigorous purfoir.
Indeed I could not help being grieved, when I considered
ihat I, who had n^ver wr nged or defrauded any peihh m
my iife, was now purfutd like a common thuf, and, if taken,
to run the greatest, danger of being executed as fucb j and,
though innocent, I found myfelf und^r the neceffity of fly-
ing Jfor my fsfcty, and thereby tfcape bei g brought to
ihame, of which 1 was even m. re afra d than of death itfelf.
It was eafy to read my deje&ion in rm countenance. My
roird was oppreffed, like thofe unhappy, innocent perfom,
Who bting overpowe;ed by blafpnemous .ind p-rjored evi-
dences, wickedly refolved to >ake away their lives, or ruin
ihciy reputation, have no oih.T recourfe in '.his world to
cafe their forrow, but fighs, raye.s, and teats. Mr partner
Seeing me fo concerned, encouraged me a^> we;f cs he cou'd;
and after describing to rne the fevenH ports ol thai ccaft,
he toid me, he wou d ekher pot me in on the coast of C ;chin-
Chine, or elfe in the Bay of T • quin, fr-in vvneuce we might
£0 to Macao, a t:»m\ nee pofiWF~d by che P.?r tirgue A?, and
where 1UIJ many European families refnkd.
To this place we fleered, and early < ext mor-ing came
in light of the ccaft j but thought h advisable to put into
a fro.all river where we couid, eit er overland, or b the
(hip's pinnace, know what veiltIs *ere in a . p-.ris ih.-re-
abouts. This happy llcp proved o.r dehv r nee: fr, next
morning, there came to the Bay of Tonquw two Dutch
Ihips, and a third without any concurs; and in the evening
two Englifh (hips Peered the fame courfe. The river
where we were w£s but fmall, and rim b~t a few kagues up
the cot-niry northward ; the country was wild and barbarous,
ar.d the people thieves, havb g ro correspondence with any
other natirrt, dealing only in fifh, oil, and - fixh grofs com-
modifies; ac d one barbarous cuftom they fii!I retained,-that
when any v-effcl was unhapoily fhipvvrecked up:n their
coaft, they make the n en prif ners or Saves; fo that now
we might fa'rJ-y fay we were futr^unJed by enemies both by
fea and land.
As she fhip had b*en leaky, we tcok the opportunity, in
this place, to (earch her, a;-d to Hop up the places, which
Jet in the water. We scctrcingiy lightened her, and bring-
ing our curs and ch^r moveable ihings to one fide, we el-
fayed to bring her down, tr>arwe might come to her hot-1
torn; but, upon fecond confidcratioo, we did net think it
fafe to let her lie on cry ground, neither, indeed, was the
ptece convenient for it. The inhabitants, not ufed to fuch
a fight as to fee a fhip lie down on one fide, and heel in to-
wards the fhore, and do: perceiving the men who were at
work on htr bottom, whh.fiages aid boats on tne off* fide,
prerendy imagined the (hip had be£n::eaiKaway^ and lay
fail on the ground. Agreeable to this fupjfcfman, they
forrounded us with ten or twelve Urge boats, wkn a refo-
lalion* .undoubtedly, to piuncer the ihip, and carry away
thofe they Found alive for (lives to their king. But when
they perceived our men hard at work on the fh:p*s bottom
and fide, wafhing, pravtrg, «nd Mopping her, it fiTled thorn
all with i'uch ftJrpriie, tlut they flood gating as though they
were confounded. Nor could uc imagine what taeir ce-
figxi was ; however, for fear ol danger, we handed down
arm* and anxmuni ion to tnofe at work, in or'er t.« defer.d.
themfelve*; and, i deed, this precaution, wis abfolmely
nece&iry; f r, m a quart-r , f a?> hour after,. we Dative?,
concluding it was real.y a ihipwrsc'k, m* i that we were U~
ving our lives and goods, which t vey th aght belonged to
then)} came down upon ;ur ©tn, £s though it h-d bee^ in <
line of battle. We lay a: prefens by in a very unfit ^oltnre
to fight; aid before t^. rhg< 8 couvi be ,,ot do«n, o? the
me in the boatc.mr on board as th} were ordered, tne
Cochin*Cninefe *ere upon thsoi, and two of'tneir uoats
baarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold or our men
E(3
as^ prifoners. The flrft thev feized was a flout Engli/h
fatlor, who never fired his mu/ket, like a fool as I imagined,
but laid it down in the boat: but he knew what he was
doing; for, by main force, he dragged the Pagan out of the
boat into ours by the two ear?, and knocked his brains out
again!! the beat's gunnel; a Dutchman that tras next him
fnatched up the mufktt, and knocked down five more with
the^ butt-end of it; however, this was doing very little to
their number; but a ftrange unexpected accident, which
rather merits laughter than any thing elfe, gave our men a
complete viclory over them.
It feerns the carpfnter, who was preparing to grave the
outfide of the fhip, as well as to pay the feams, -where he
caulked to Hop the leaks, had gotten two kettles jufl; let
down in the boat, one filled with bailing pitch, and the
other with rofin, tallow, oil, and fuch ft off as the inip-
wrights ufe ; the carpenter's man had a great iron ladle
with which he ufed to fuppiy the workmen with hot (luff,
and as two of the enemies enrered the boat where the fel-
low flood, he faluted thern with a foil ladle of the hct boil-
i/ g liquor, which, the poor creatures b:ing half naked, made
them roar out, snd jump hro the fen, " Well done, Jack,'*
fays the carpenter, «' give them the other dofe:" and fo
Pepping forward himfelf, takes a mop, and dipping it into
the pitch-pot, he and his man fo plentifully flu;g it among
them, as that none efcaped being k^Wed; upon which they
all made the befl of thtir way, crying and howling in fuch
a frightful manner, that, in all my adventures, I never heard
the like. And, indeed, never was I better pleafed with
any conqueft than i was with this, there being fo little
blood died, and having an averfion to killing fuch favage
wretches, (more than was neceffary,) as knowing they cam«e
en errands, which their laws and cuftoms made them think
were juft and equitable, By this time all things being in
order, and the fhip fwimming, they found their miflake, fo
they did not vtnture a fecond attack. Thus ended our
merry fight, and, having got rice, bread, roots, and fixteen
good hogs en board the day before, we fet fail, not daring
to go into the bay of Tonquin, but fieered N. £. toward
the ifland of Forrnofa, or as though we would go to the
Manillas, or Philippine iflands, for fear of meeting with any
European fhipsj when we anchored at the ifle of Formcfa,
iae inhabitants not only courtepufly fupplied us with pjo*
vifions and frefh water, but dealt very fairly and honeftly
with us in their bargains and agreements From this place
we fleered north, keeping ftill off the coafl of China, till
we were beyond all its ports where European {hips afually
come; and, at length, being come to the latitude of thirty
degrees, we refolved to put into the firil trading port we
mould come at $ and fUnding for the (bore, a boat came off
two leagues to us, with an old Poftuguefe pilot on board,
who offered his fervice; we very g{aGly accepted him, and
ferrt the boat back again. And now, fcaving the old man
on board, 1 talked to him of going to Nanquin, the mod
northward part of the coaft of China. 6l What will you do
there ?" faid he, fmiling, I told him we would fell our
cargo, and purchafe calicoes, raw and wrought fiiks, tea,
&x. and fo return the fame way back. " O," laid he, " you
had better put in at Macao, where you may buy China wares
as cheap as at Nanquin> and fell your opium at a greater
advance/' " But," faid I, ct we are gentlemen, as well as
merchants, and defign to fee the great city of Pekin, and
the magn ficent court of the monarch cf China." *6 Why,
then," laid he, " you fhould go to Ningpo, where there is
a navigable river that goes through the heart of that vaft
empire, two hundred and feventy leagues from the ha,
which erodes all the rivers, paifes considerable hills, by the
help of the fluices and gates, and goes even up to the city of
Pekin. You may go to Nanquin, if you pleafe, and travel to
Pekin, and there is a Dutch {hip juft before bound that way/*
At the name.of a Dusch or Engiiih fliip, I was ftruck with
confufion; they being as great a terror to me in this veffel^
as an Algerine man of war is to them in the Mediterranean.
The old man fird-ng me troubled, te Sir," faid he, " I hope
the Duxh are not now at war with ycur nation." " No/'
faid 1, " but God knows what liberty they may take when
out of the reach of the law." " Why," fays he, 4< what occa-
nrn is there for peaceable merchants to fear ? For, believe
me, they never meddle with any but PIRATES."
At the mentioning the word Pirates, my countenance
turned to that of fcarlet; nor was it poflible for me to con-
ceal it from the old pilot; who taking notice of it, " Sir,"
faid he, u take what c^urfe ycu pleafe, Til do you all the
fervice I can." a Seignior,'* fa'id I, u I am a little con-
cerned at your mentioning pirates ; I hope there are cor.e
fuch in thefe feas? btcaufe you fee in what weak conditio-!*
we are to defend ourfelves." " O, Sir," faid he, ei if that's
ail, don't be concerned, ; I don't remember c ne in theft' feas
thefe fifteen years, exceptahtuta month ago one *as feen in
the bay of Siam, but he is gone to the fruthward; neither was
flie built for a privateer, but was run away wnji by a repro-
bate Captain, and fome of his men, the right Captain having
been murdered by the Malayans/'
<c What!" faid I, (as'thojg.h ignorant of what had hap-
pened) " did they kill rhe Captain !" u N<»/' faid he, "it is
generally thought the Ma»a\ a:.s murdered him ; but r erhaps
they m'ght procure them to do it, and therefore they jufrly
deferve hanging. The rogues were lately discovered m
the Bay of Siam, in the river o" Cambodia, by f me Dutch-
men who telorged to the fhip, and had much ado :o efcape
the five boats that purfued them, but they have foiemnly
fworn to give no .qnarter to the Captain cr the feamen, but
hang trem every me up at the yard-arm, without any for-
mal bufinefs of bringing them to a court of judicature."
Being fenfible tint, having lAe old man on b ard, he
was incapable of dtirg me any mifchic-f, " Well, Seignior/'
faid 1, •' it is for this very real or- I would have you carry
us up to Nar.cjiiin, where neither Engiifh r.or Dutch mips
come; and 1 mud (ell >ou, ineir Captains-are a parcel of
rafh, prcud, infHent rafcals, that neither know what belongs
to juiiice, t.or how to behave themfelves as the Jaws of God
or nature direct; fellows thst would prove murderers to
puniTh robbers, and take upon them to jucge irnoces t men
to death, without any pro<-f to prove them guilty; but per-
haps I may live to call them to account fo- it, in a pisce
where they may be taught how jjft.ee is to be executed,"
And fo I told him all trie tfory of buyi »g the (hip, *nd how
we were faved by the means or two men : that the murder
of the Captain by the MaUyan?, ai alio the runnlrg «w y
with the fhip, I believed to be true; bu< thuvve wh^ bought
it, were turned pirates, was a mere fiction, 10 c ver thc:ir
cowardice and fnohfh behavirur, when Jiey allocked us;
and trie blood of thofe men . e killed in our .nvs) jutt defence
lay at their door, who were ftnt to attack us bv iurpr «t* "
•' bir," faid the old man amazed, " } ou nave taken vhe
right courfe to fleer Io the nort », and if 1 might auvife
you, I wojld have »ou fell your fhp in Cnina, -aid v. u\ or
build arother in that country, and I'll p:ccure pe y!e to
buy the one, and k\\ Ue other/' (< Well, but Seignior,"
fald I, u if I fell the fliip in this manner, I may bring feme
innocent perfons into the fame dangers I have gone through,
perhaps worfe than even death itfelf: whereby I (hould be as
guiky of their murder as their villanous executioners."—
*» That need not trouble you/' fays the old man, u I'M find
a way to prevent that; for thefe commanders, you talk of,
I know very well, and will inform them rightly of the mat-
ter as you have related, and am perfuaded they will not
only believe me, bat act more camioufly for the future."—
st And will you deliver ose meffage from me to them?"
*' Yes," faid he, '« if you will give it under your han^, that
I may prove it is not of my own production/ Hereupon
1 wrote a large account c f thiir attacking me in their long-
boat, the pretended reafon and uojuft deiign cf it ; that
they had done what they might be Shamed o\\ and could
notanfwer for at any tribunal in England. But this letter
W--S writ in vain. Providence ordered things another way.
We failed directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days
fail came to an anchor at the foath--veft point of the great
gulf of that place, where we learned, that two Dutch
(hips were gone the lengtn before cs, and that we ihould
certainly fall into their hands. We were all at a great lofs
in this exigency, and would very gladly have been on ihore
almoit any where; but our old pilot told me that if I
would fail to the fouthward abr-ut two and forty leagues,
there was a little port called GHnchang, wnere no Euro-
pean (hips ever came, and where we might consider what
was further to be done. Accordingly wc weighed .incnor
the next day, calling only twice on Ihore by the way to
get frelh water. The country people v*ry courceoufly
f>ld us roots, tea, rice, fowls, and ther provides -s. After
five days fail we came to the port, and Undei with unfpeak-
able joy; We refalved to difpofe of ou.ieves an:i effects
in any other wav pofTthle> than enLer on bo^rd that ill-fated
veilel more ; for no Hate caq bt more miserable than a
continued fear, which is a life of death, a conf-under of
our underilandings, that fats the imagination at wo.k to
form a thoufand frightful things taai may never happen.
And we fcarce llept one ni^ht, without dreaming of h alters*
yard-arms or gibbets, cf fighting, betng-akeo and being
killed; nay fo violent were our apprehcnuV.s, th.it we
would bruife our hands and heads ag.ii.ill the tides oi ;ne
cabin as though actually engaged. Tas iiory of the Dutch
cruelly at Amboyna, often came into our thoughts when
awake; and, for my part, I thought my condition very
hard, that after (o many difficulties and fuch fignal deliver-
ances, 1 mould be hanged in my old age, though innocent
of any crime that deferved fuch punifbment; but then re*
lipion would feem to reprefenc to me, as though the voice
of it had faid, confider, O man ! what fins you have been
formerly guilty of; which now thou art called to an account
for, to expiate with thy blood ! And as to thy innocence,
what art thou more innocent than thy blefTed Redeemer
Jefus Chrift, who fufTered for thy offences, and to whofe
providence you ought to fubmir, let what will happen ?
After this, natural courage would infpire me to refill to the
Jaft drop of blood, and (boner die than fuffer myfeif to be
taken by boorifti rafcally Dutchmen, who had arts to torment,
beyond death itfelf.
But now, thank kind Heaven, being afhore, our old pilot
procured us a lodging a-nd warehouse for our goods; it
was .a little hu\ with a large warehoufe joining to it, all
built with canes, and palifadoed round with large ones, to
keep out pilfering thieves, which are \ery numerous in that
country. The magiitra:es allowed us a little guard during
the night, and we employed a centinel with a kind of hal-
bert for threepence a day. The fair, or mart, wc found
had been over for fome time; however, there remained in
 the nver. four junks and two Japan fhips, the merchants of
the latter being on more. In the firft place, our old pilot
brought us acquainted with the miffionary Roman pnelis,
who were converting the people to Chriftianity : two of
them were re(erved, rigid, and auftere, appl>ihg themfelves
to the work they came,about with great earmriinefs; but
the third, who was a Frenchman, called Father Simeon, was
of a freer converfation, not feemingly fa ferious and grave,
>et no worfe Chriftian than the other two, one of whom
was a Portuguefe, and the other a Genoefe. Father Simeon,
ic feems, was appointed to go to Pekin, the royal feat of
the Emperor of the Chinefe; and he only waited for ano-
ther priell, who was ordered from Macao to accompany
him. We never met together, but Ik was prompting roe
to accompany him in that journey: " Sir/' ud he, €< I
will mow you the glorious things of this mighty empire,
and a city, the city of Pekin, far exceeding Lond,n ani
Paris, put them both together." One day in particular, be-
ing at dinner with htm, I footed fome inclination to go;
which made him prefs the more upon me and my partner*
to gain our perfect confent. " But, Father Simeon/' laid
my partner, '* what fatis faction can you ha'/e in our com-
pany, whom you efteem as heretics, and consequently objects
not worthy your regard V t( O/' faid he, " you may be as
good Catholics in time as thofe I hope to convert to our
religion." " And fo/' fiid I, " we (hall-have your preach-
ing to us all the way, inilead of pleating us with a defcrip-
tion of the country/' *'. Sir/' faid he, i( however our reli-
gion may be vilified by fome people, it is very certain it
neither dive/Is us of good manners or Christian charity ; and
as we are gentlemen, as fuck we may converie together,
without making one another uneafy/'
But we mall leave him awhile, to confider our fhip and
the merchandife which we had to difpofe of. There was
but very little trade in the place where we were; and I
was once refolved u venture to fail to the river Kilam, and
fo to the City of Nanquin; but Providence ordered it other-
wife, by our old pilot's bringing a Japan merchant to us, to
fee what goods we had. He immediately b jught our opiom*
for which he gave us a very good price in gold by weight,
fome wedges of which were ab3ut ten or eleven ounces*
It came into my head thit perhaps he might buy the ihip
too; and 1 ordered his interpreter to propofe it to him.—
He faid nothing then, but fhrugged up his moulders; yet
in a few days after he came, accompinied by a miflkmary
prieft, who was his interpreter, with this propofal, " That
as he had bought a great quantity of our goods, he had not
money enough to purchafe our fhip ; but if I pieafed he
would hire her, witn all my men, to go to japan, and fronv
thence with another loading to the Philippine iflaods, the
freight of which he would very willingly pay to us before;
and at the:r return to Japan, would buy the fhip." Upon
this we alked the Captain and his men, if they were willing
to go to Japan ; to which they unanimously agreed. While
this was in agitation, the young man, my nephew left to
attend me, told me, s4 That as I did not care to accept this
profped of advantage, he would manage it for me as I
pleaied, and render me a faithful account of his fuccefs,
which would be wholly mine." Indeed I was very unwil-
ling to part with him; but confidering it might be foT the
young man's groif I diTcoorfed with my partner 3bout it,
who, of his o*n g-reroftty, gave himhh fliare of theveffd,
fb lhat I coqld do no othcrwife than.give him mire; but,
however, we let him have bur. the proper half of it, and
preserved a power, that when we met in England, \f lis
Lad obuined'fuecefs, he ftiould account to us for one-half of
the proofs of th- {hip'* 'freight, and the other mould be his
<nvn.\ Thus ha- ing taken a writing ui.der his hand, away
he fUi'ed to Japtn, where the merchant dealt verv honeniy
by him, g-t him a hcen.e to cove on fhore;fcnt.him loaded
to the Philippines with a Japantfe hipe-cargo, from whence-
he carr.e back again loaded with European goo-is,cloves, and
other fpices. By this vo\age he cleared a confiderable
fum of moaey, which determined him n~t to fell his fhipi
but to trade en his own account ; fo lie returned to the Ma-
nillas where, peltirg acquaintance, he made his flap free,
was h:red by the governor privately to go toAcapulco in
America, on the Mexican coafc, with a iicenfe to travel to
the great city of Mexico* . This traffic turned out greatly to
accouir, and my friend finding means to get to Jamiica, re-
turned nine years after exceedingly rich into England.
/In parting with the fhip, it comes in courie to eonfider
of thofe men whn had faved our lives when in the river of
Camb;:d'a; and though, by the way, they were a couple of
rogues, who thought to turn pirates themfelves, yet we
paid them what they had before demanded, and gave each
of them a final! furo of money, making the Engtifhman a
gunner, and the Dutchman a boatfivain, with which' they
were very well contented.
We were ndw about 1000 leagues farther from home'
than when at Bengal. All the comfort we could expect
was, that there being another fair to be kept in a month's
time, we might not only purchafe all forts of tba: country's
manufactures, but very p.lHbly lind fome Chinefe junks,
or veliels from Tonqain, to be fold, which would carry us
and owr goods wheresoever we pleafed. Upon Ihefehop.^s,
we refolved to continue; and to divert ourfeives, we took
feverai little journeys in the country. About ten days after
we parted with our fhip, we travelled to fee the city of
Nanquin. The city lies in latitude 30 degrees north of the
line: it is regularly built, and'tlle ilreets are exacHyflraighr,
and Grofs one another in direct lines, which fets it out to
the greateft advantage. At our return, we found the prieft
Was come from Macao, that was to accompany father Si-
meon to Pekin. That father earned I y folicited me to ac-
company him, and I referred him to my partner. In ftior"?,
we both agreed, and prepared accordingly ; and we were
fo lucky as to have liberty to travel arrung the retinae of
one cf their Mandarines, who is a principal magistrate, and
much reverenced by the people.
We were fiveand'twenty days travelling through this mifer-
arle country, infinitely populous, but as indifferently cul-
tivated ; and yet their pride is infinitely greater thsn their
povertj?; infomuch that the prieils thoraf-lves deride them.
-As we patted by the houfe of one of their country gentle-
men, two leagues off Nanquin, we had tr»e honour, forfooth,
t.) ride with the Chinefc ("quire, about two miles. Never
was D^n Quixote fo e*uc"Uy imitated ! Never fuch a com*,
pound of pomp and poverty feen before I
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greafy, and very
proper fur a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with all its
tawdry tappings, as hanging fleeves, taffels, &c. though
torn and rent in almoft every part ; hi^ veft underneath it
*as no lefs dirty, but more greafy, refembling the moil ex-
quifue floveri, or greafy butcher : his horfe (worfe than Ko-
fi nadte, or the famous fleed of doughty Huiibras) was a
poor ftarved, decrepit thing*, that would not fell for thirty
fhfilmgs in England ; and yet this piece of worfhipful pomp
was attended with ten or twelve flaves, who guarded their
mailer to his country feat. We flopped at a little village
for refreshment; and when we came by the country feat of
this great man, we found him fitting under a tree before his
door, eating a mefs of boiled rice, with a great piece of
garlic in the middle, and a bag filled with green pepper by
him, and another plant like ginger, together with a piece
of lean mitt con in it; this was his worship's repaft: baE
prayobferve the (late of the food ! two women flavea brought
him his food, which being laid before him, two others ap-
peared to perform their refpe«5Uve offices; one fed him
with a fpoon, while the other (craped off what fell upon his
beard and taffety veit, and gave it to a particular favourite
to eatt* And thus we left the wretch pleafed with the con-
ceit of our admiring his magnificence, which rather merited
our fcorn and deteitation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin, accom-
panied by two fervants, and the old Pqrcuguefe pilot, whofe
charges we bore, and who ferved us as an interpreter by
the way. We had fcarce been a week at Pekin, but he
comes laughing to us, '-Ah! Senior Inglife," faid he*
u me fornething rell you make your hears glad, but make
me forry; for you bring me here twenty-five days journey,
and now you leave me go back alone ; and which way-
fhall I make my port after, without de {hip, without de
hor(e\ without pecune?" (u he caled money in his brcken
Latin. He then informed me, that theie was a great ca-
ravan of Mufcovite and FoliOl merchants in the city, who
were preparing to fct ouc for Mufcovy by land within fix
weeks: and chat he was certain.we would take this oppor-
tunity, and confequently that he mull go home by himfelfl
Indeed this news iifinitely furprifcd and pleafed me.—
." Are you certain of this ?" faid I. "Yes, Sir," fa^s he,
"me fure its true." And fo he sold me that having met
sn old acquaintance oFhis, an Armenian, in the itree?, who -
was among them, and who had come from Ailrscan, with
a de.fign to go to Tonquin, but ior certain reafens having
altered his refolution, he was now refoived ta go with the
caravan, and to return by xhe river Wolga to Aflracao,—
''Wei], Seignior/' faki I "don't be difcomeated about
fur returning alone : and if, by this means, I can find a
iiage to England, it will be your own fault if you return
to Macao at alh" And fo confulting with my partner what
was b<H to be done, he referred it to me as I pleafed, hav-
ing our- affairs fo well fettled at Bengal, that if he could
convert the good voyage he had made in China filks,
wrought or raw, he would be fatisfied to go to England,
and fo return to Bengal in the Company's fbjps. Thus re-
foived, we agreed that if our pilot wonld go with us, we
would bear his charges either to Mofcow/or England ; and
to give him in a prefentthe fum of onehundredand feventy;
pounds flerlrng. Hereupon we called him in, and told
him the caufe of his complaint ihcuLd be removed, if he
would accompany us with the caravans; and, therefore, we
defined to know his mind. At this he fhook his head,.
4t Great long journey," faid he, u me no pecune carry me
to Mofcc-Wy or keep me there.,J Rut wafoon put him out
of that concern, by making him fenfible of what we would
give him here to lay out to the beft advantage : and,- as for,
h?s charges, we would fet him fafe on fhore, God willing,
either in Mufcovy, or England, as he pleafed? at our ow.a
^charge, except the carriage of his goods. At this propofaJ,
he was like a man tranfported, telling us, he would go with
us all the world over j and we made preparations for our
journey; but it was near four monlhs before all the mer-
chants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went exprefs
to the pTt where we firft put in, to difpofe of what goods
had been Iefc there, while I accompanied a Chinefe mer-
chant who was going toNanquin, and there bought twenty-
nine pieces of damafk, with about three hundred more of
other fine filks; and by the time my partner returned to
Pekin, I had them all carried thither; our cargo in & ks
amounted to 4500/. fterling, which, together with tea, fine
calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves, loaded eighteen camels for
our fhare, befiides what we rode upon, with two or three
fpare horfes, and two more loaded with provisions; the
company now was very great, making about four hundred
horfe, and above one hundred and twenty men, well armed
and provided. We were of feveral nations, among whon
were five Scotch merchants, inhabiting in Mofcow, and
well experienced in trade.
We fet out from Pekin the beginning of February, our
llyle ; and in two days more, we pafFed through the gate
of the great China wall, which was erefled as a fortifica-
tion againft the Tartars, beiig one hundred English miles
long. We then entered a country not near fo populous,
chiefly under the power of plundering Tartars, feveral com-
panies of whom we perceived riding on poor ilarved horfes,
contemptible as themfelves, without order or difcipline.—
One lime our leader, for the day, gave us leave to go a
hunting; but what do you think we hunted? only a parcel
of fheep, which indeed exceeded any in the world for wild-
Befs and fwiftnefs; but while we were purfaing this game,
it was our chance to meet with about forty Tartars, who
no fooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn, at
the found of which there foon appeared a troop of fony or
fifty more, at about a mile's diliance. Hereupon one of
the Sco-ch merchants (who knew their ways) ordered us to
advance towards them, and attack them immediately. As
we advanced, they let fly a volley of arrows, which happily
fell a little uiort of us; this made us halt a little, to return
the compliment with bullets; and then being ted up by
the bold Scot, we fired our piftols in their faces, and drew
out our fwords ;'but there was no occafion ; for ihey flew
like tirtorous flieep, and ooly three of uem remained,
beckonirg on the reft to come back. But our brave com-
mander galloped up to them by himfelf, (hot one dead,
Crocked another off his horfe, while the third ran away ;
and thus ended cur battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a mor.jth m<re through the Emperor of
China's dominions; ar d at length coming to one cf their
towns about a day and a half's journey from the cuy of
Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The perfen 1 fpeke to
would have brought me one, bu(, like a fool, I malt go
along with him, about two miles from the village. My
old pilot and 1 walked on fcot, forfooth, for fome variety,
when coming to the place wftere the camels were kept as
in a park guarded by Cbinefe foldiers, we there agreed
and bought one, which (he Ch^nefe man tha-; came along
with me led along the road. But *ve had not gone far, be-
fore we were attacked,by five Tartars, nv unted on h<rfc-
hack, two cf whom feized the man, took the camel irom.
him, and rode away, while the other three approached us,
the firft of whom furideniy feized me as I was drawing my
fword, ihe fecond knocked me down, but my old truHy
Pcrtuguefe, taking a piilol out of his pock:t, which I knew
nothing of, and coming up to the fellow that flruck me, he
with one hand puled him off his horfe, ai>d then (hot him
dead upon the fpot; then takirg his cimeter, he (truck
at the man that liopped us, but miffing him, cut off one of
his node's ears, the pa>n of which made him throw hU
rider to the ground. The poor Chinefe vvho had led the
camel, feeing the Tartar down, runs to him, and feizing
upon his pole-axe, wrenched it from his runds, and knocked
his brains out. But there was anolher Tartar to deal with,
who teeming neither inclined to figat or fly, ar<d my old
man having begun to charge his pjiioL the h^ht of it (truck
fuch a terror into the wretch, that a.va) he fcoured, leav-
ing my old pilot, rather my champion and defender, an
abiclute victory.
By this time being awakened from ray trance, I besaT
to open my eyes, wondering where 1 was, having quite
forgot all thfct paifed j but my fenfes re;urnii.g, and feeling
a great pain,in my head, and feeing the bloed was running-
over ray clothes, I initamiy jumped upon my fest, and
grafped my fword in my hand, with a refolution to take re-
venue: but no enemies now remained, except the dead
Tartar, with his horfc landing by him. The old man
feeing rae recovered, whom he tbcught flam, ran towards
me, and embraced me with the greatell lenderrets, at the
f*rne time examining into my wcund, which was far from
being mortal. When v^e returned to the village, the man
demanded payment for his camel, which I refufing, we
brought the caufe before a Chinefe judge, who acred with
great impartiality : Having heard both fir'es, he afked the
Chinefe man that went wuh me, whofe fervant he was ?
" Sir/' faid he, ** 1 am ncbcd)'s, but went widi the Gran-
ger at his requeil :*' "What then/' laid the judge, ">oa
are the ilranger^ feivant for the time, and the camel be-
ing delivered to his fervant, it is the fame as though de-
livered to himfelf, and accordingly he mull pay for it."—
Indeed the cafe was fo fairly ftatcd, that I had nothing to
object 10 ir; fo having paid for that I was robbed of} I
fern for another, but did not go myfeif to fetch it, as I had
•enough of that fport before.
The city cf Naum is a frontier of'he Chinefe empire, fo
fortified, as fome will tell you, that millions of T21 tars can-
not baiter down their walls; by \vh;cn certainly one might
think one cf our cannons would do more execution than all
their legiors.
When we were within a day's march of that city, we
had inhumation that the governor had fent mefll-ngers to
every part of the road, to inform the travellers and caravans
to halt, till a guard ^as fent to protect them from the nu-
merous bodies of Tartars that larely appeared about the
city. The r.ews put us into great confternauon : but,
obeying the orders, we ftopt; and two days afer, trure
came two hundred fcldters from a garrifon of the Chinefe,
and three hundred more from Naum ; thus guarded both
in the front ana rear, wi h our own men in t^e flunks, we
boldly advanced, thu.fcing we were able to combat with
ten thoufaod Nlogul Tatars if they appeared.
Early ntxt morning, in our march from a little well-fitu-
ated !Own, cal'ed Changu, afur hiving paffed a river, and
entered upon a defert of about fifteen or fixteen miles over,
we toon beheld, by a c'oud of dull that was raifed, that
the enemy was approaching. This much difpirited the
.Chinefe. My old pilot took notice of it, and called our,
"Seignior In glife, thofe fellows muft be encouraged, or they
will ruin us ail; and I am afraid if the Tartars attack us,
they will all run away." u Why, Seignior," faid I,«' what
lhall be done in this cafe?" ° Done," fays he, "why let
fifty of our men advance, and flank them on each wingi I
know the fellows will fight well enough in company." We
acccrdingly took his advice, and marched fifty to the right
wing, and the fame number to the left, and with the reft
made a line of referve, leaving the lad two hundred men
to guard the camels, or 10 affi/l us, as occalion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came forward, view,
ing our podure, and traverfing the ground on the front of
our line. Hcoupon we ordered the two wings to move
on, and give'them a falute with their fhotj which accord-
ingly was dene. This put a flop to their proceedings;
for immediately wheeling of? to their left, they all marched
away, and vvefaw no more of them. They had undoubtedly
given an account to their companions of what reception
they might expect, which made them fo eafily give ever
their enterprise.
When we came to the city of Naum, we re:urned the
governor hemy tbarks, and didributed a hundred crowns
among tl e foldiers that guarded us. We reftcd there one
day, and (hen proceeded en our travels, palling feveral
great rivers and defertsj and on the J3tb of April we came
to the frontiers of Mufcovy, the fltfl town of which was
called Argun.
This happy occafion, as I thought, of coming into a
Chriflian country, rnar'e me congratulate the Scots mer-
chant upen it. He fmilcd at that, telling me not to rejoice
tco icon ; *' for/' laid, he, u except the Ruflian foldiers in
garrifon, and a few inhabitants of the cities upen the road,
all the re(l of this country, for above a thoufand miles, is
inhabited by the mod ignorant and barbarous Pagans."
We advanced fnm ihe river Arguna by moderate jour-
neys, and found convenient garrifons on the ro^d, filled with
Chriflian foldiers, fcr the Fecurily of commerce, and for
the convenient kdging? of travellers : but the inhabitants
of the cr miry u ere mere Pagans, woifhiping the fun, mom,
and fl^rs. We particularly ebferved this idolatry near the
river Arguna, at a city inhabited by Tartars and Ruffians.,
called Nerifinkey, Being curicus to fee their way of 1 v-
irg, while the can van continued to reft themfelves in that
*city, I went to one of their villages, where there was
to he one of their solemn sacrifices. There I beheld,
upon the stump of am old tree, an idol of wood, more ugly
than the representation of the devil himself; its head
resembling no living creature; its ears were as big and as
^highas goats1 horns, a crooked nose, four-cornered mouth,
-and horrible teeth : it was clothed m sheep skins, had a
great Tartar bonnet, with two horns growing through it,
-And was eight feet high, without feet, legs, or proportion.
^Before this idol-there lay sixteen or seventeen people, who
brought tbeir offerings, and were making their prayers,
while at a distance stood three men and one bullock, as
victims to this ugly -monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this in robbing the true
God of his honour, filled me with (hegreatest astonishment
and reflection : which soon turning to rage and fury, I
rode up to the image, and cut in pieces the bonnet that
was upon hfs head with my sword, so that it hung down by
one of the horns, while one of my men that was with me
pulled at it by his sheep skin garment. Immediately an
-hideous howling and outcry ran through the -village, and
stwo or three hundred people coming about our ears, we
•were obliged to fly for it.
But I had not done with the monster; for the caravan
being to rest three nights in the town, I told the Scots mer-
chant what 1 had seen, and that I was resolved to take four
or fi\& men well armed with me, in order to destroy the
idol, and show the.people-howlittle reason they had to trust
in a god who could not save himself. At first he laughed
-at me, representing the danger of it ; and when it was de-
stroyed, what time had we to preach to them belter things,
who^e zeat and ignorance were in the greatest'degree,
and both nn.parelleled ? that if I should be taken by them, I
should be served as a poor Russian vsho condemned their
worship ; that is, to be stripped naked, and tied to (ha top
t>f the idol, theie shot at with arrows till my body was full
of them,-and then burnt as a sacrifice to the monster; i( hut
Sir," said he, " since your zeahcarries you so far, rather
than you should be alone I will accompany you, and bring
a stout fellow equal to yourself) if )ou will, to assist you h>
this design : and accordingly he brought one captain Rich-
ardson, who, hearing the story, readily consented; but my
partner declined it, benig altogether out of his way: anH
so, we three, and my servant, resolved,to execute this ex-
ploit about midnight; but upon second thoughts we defer-
red it to the next night, by reason that the caravan being
to go from hence the next morning, we should be out of
the governor's power. The better to cfiVctuaie my design,
I procured & Tartars sheep skin robe, a bonnet, with bow
and arrows, iand every one of us got the like habits. The
firslnight we spent in. muxingcombustibJe matter with aqua-
.vi(ae^ gunpawderr,&c. -having a good quantity of tar in a
little pot; the next night-we came up to (he idol about eleven
o'clock, the moon being up. We found none guarding it;
but we perceived a light in the house, where we had
seen the priests before. One of our men was for firing tbe
hut, another for killing the people, and a third for ma-
king them prisoners, while the idol was destroyed. Wfe
agreed lo the latter ; so knocking at the door, weseized
the first that opened it, and stopping his mouth and tying
.his feet0 we left him. We served the other two in the like
.manner : and then the Scots merchant set fire to the com-
position, which frightened them so much lhat we brought
.ihem all away prisoners to their wooden god. There we
fell to work with him, daubing him all over with tar mixed
with tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears, and
.month full of gunpowder, wkh a great piece of wild-fire in
his bonnet, and environed it with dry forage. All this be-
ing done, we unloosed and imgagged the prisoners, and set
the idol on fire, which the gunpowder blowing up, the
.shape of it was deformed, rent, and split, which the forage
.utterly consumed : for westayedao see iu destruction, lest
the ignorant, idolatrous people should have thrown them-
selves into .the ilames., And thus we came away undis-
covered, in the morning appearing as busy among our fellow
travellers, as,nobody could have suspected any other, but
_ihat we had been in our beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a small
^distance from the citv, when there came a multitude of
people of the.eoun.try to the gates of the city., demanding
satisfaction of the Russian governor for in&ulting their priest^
.and burning their great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in
the sun, and no mortal would violate this image but some
'Christian miscreant? j and being already no less than thirty
thousand strong, they announced war against bim .and all
iiis Christians.
The governor assured ihem he was ignorant of (he mat-
ter, and that none of his garrison had been abroad ; that in-
deed there was a caravan that went a way that morning, and
that he would send after ihem to inquire into it; and who*
ever was the offender, should be delivered into their hands,-
This satisfied ihem for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if anv of us had done it, we should make
all the haste away possible, while he kept them in play as
long as he could. Upon this we marched two days and
two nights, stopping but very lihle, tifl at last we arrived
at a villagecalled.Plothus, and hastened to Jarawena, another
of the Czar's colonies. On the third dav, having entered
the desert, and passed (he lake called Shales Oser, we beheld
a numerous body of hor-e on the other side of it to the
north, who supposed we had passed on that side of the lake;,
but either having found the mistake,, or being certainlv in-*
formed of the way uetook, they came upon us towards the
dusk of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp be-
tween two little but very thick woods, with a little river
running before our front and some felled trees with which
we covered our rear; a precaution we always took, and
udiich we had just finished when the enemy came up.
They did not fall on us immediately, but sent three messen-
gers, demanding the men who had insulted their priests,
and burnt their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might
be burnt with fire; that if this was complied with, they .
would peaceably depart j but if not, they would de-
stroy one and all of us. Our men stared at one another
on receipt of this message, but nobody was the word, as
indeed nobody knew it,, but he who didit. Upon which *
the leader of the caravan returned for answer, "That they <
were peaceable merchants, who meddled with pone of their
priests and gods; and therefore desired them not to disturb -
us, and put us under the necessity of defending ourselves "
But so far was this from satisfying them, that the next morn-
ing coming Co pur right, they let % a volley of arrows among -
us, which happily did not hurt any, because we skeltered ,
ourselves behind our baggage. We expected, however, to
come to closer engagement: but were happily saved by
.a cunning fellow, a Cossack, who obtaining leave of the
leader to go out, mounts his horse, rides-directly from our
rear, and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars as
-though he had been sent express, and tells them a formal
L2
%0 -LIPK A"ND *t>V*EtfTUR-ES
story, Hi at i\m wretches who had burnt the Cha"-m Ohf-
Tha-u rig u, :were gone to Shi'beilka, wit-h a resolution to burn
fbegod ShaMsar, belonging t'otheTsngueses. Upon which
believing Ibis cunning Tartar, who was servant to our Mus-
covites, away'they drove to Shiherlfca, and- in lesst'han thfe*e
minutes were Jon I of sight, nor did we'cv^r beatef them more.
"When we came to the city of Jaraf\Vena, we rested five
. da\s, \and then entered into a frightful desert, winch held u-s
.twenty-three-days march, infested with several smali com-
' panies of robbers, or Mogul Tartars, who never had the
courage to attack us. After we had passed over this-d-esert,
we found several garrisons to defend the-caravans from the
^violence of the Tartars : In particular the Governor of Adin-
s-koy offered us a guard of fifty men toihe next station, if
we apprehended any danger. The people here retained
the same paganism and barbarity, only they were not so
-dangerous, being conquered.by the Muscovites. The cloth-
ing, bo-Ui of.men and women, is of the skins of beasts, living
tinder the ground in vaults and caves, which have a-com-
munication with one another. They have idols almost "m
.every family : besides, they a$ore:the sun and stars, "wati-r
.and*snow ; and the least *ii n com m-otv thing that happens iti
.the elements, -a-Ia-rms themes much ds thunder and light-
ening does the linhelievingJews.
ISiothitfg r^marka:ble occurred in Wr march through this
t country. When we had gone through the desert, after two
days farther travel, vve cameto Jenexoy, a Muscovite ehy,
on the greatriver so called, which we were told parted'Eu-
rope from Asia. The inhabitants here were very little bet-
\t?r, though intermixed with the Muscovites, butthe^won-
clef will ceajs'e, wfoen I inform ray reader of what was ob-
served to me, that the Czar raiher converts the Tartars
^with so'ldi-ets than clergymen, and is mtire proud to make
,tbcm faithful"subjects, ttmn good Christians.
From the city to (be river Oby, we travelled over a
pleasant, fruitful,, buttery uncultivated .country, for want
ofgoocl management a<nd people, and t'hose few a're mostly
Pagans. This is the place where the Muscovite criminals
are banished to, if they are .not put to death. The rreHt
ci:ly we came to, was Vhe'cap'ita'I city of Siberia, called Tq-
bolski, when having been almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and winter drawing On apace, 'my partner and I con-
sulted abchtffGU'r particular affairs, in what matiner^we should
dispose of ourselves. We had been (old of s!edge;s and
rein-deer to carry us over the sjiow in the winter season,
the snow Ueing frozen, so hard, that the sledges can rurt
upon th,e surface without any danger of going down. As I
was bound to, England, I now behoved either to go with the*
Caravan to Jereslawr from thence west to Narva, and the
gulf of Finland, eu-k! so by land or sea to Denmark ; or,
else L must leave the caravan at a little town on the Dvyina,
and.so,to Archangel, where I was certain, of shipping either
1q England,. Holland, or Hamburgh. One night I happened
to get into the company of an illustrious, but banished Prince-,
whose company and virtues. W;ere such as made me pro-
pose to hjnr a method how he might obtain his liberty.-^-
'* My dear friend/' said be, ua* I am here happily free frorn
my miserable grea^nessj with all its a< tendan-ts of* pride, am-
bit ion, avarice, and luxury, i.f [should escape fr*m this place, -
those pernicious s&ods* r$ay agam-revive, to my lasting dis-
quietude j therefore l^ttnt? remain in a blessed confinement
for I am but flesb* a, mere w, with passions and afibptions '
as. sucb, r1 O be not my friend a*^ templer, tool" StriurLv
dqsnb tt&hb surprise, I stood silent a while- ; nor was he les.s
i#,4isord>erJ by wdri&h p? roeiviiig he wanted to give*vent \>o '
his mind,, - i-des^^d him to, collier of it, and so wifehdF^w,
Jfot about two h^ES after he came to my a p$r tmen*t; 4C Dea#v:
friend," said he^ u ttumgb I cannot; consent to, acconipa^y "
you,, I shall have this satisfaction in parting* that yoq leave
me an bluest rr^ai>&till j but as> a testimony of my afteetion, x
to you, be pleased to accept tbis present of sables."
l,n return for his compliment, I sent niy servant next
inoining to his 'Lordship wUb a small present of tea,; -twu
pjeces of China damask,, and four little vyedge^ of gold:; •
but he only accepted the tea, one piece of dama$,k,'and one>
piece of gold,,, foe i\iq curiosity of the japan stacap l*ha* was-
upon it. Not long-after he sent for me, and told rne that-
what he b^4 refasedhim>elf,4^ hoped, upon his. account, I
\%ould grant to another, wh«>rn he should nanit: In. short it
vv;as his only sonv who was abouttwo hundred miles distant;
from him, on the other side of the city, whom he said he
wouW send for, if I gave my consent. This I sootrcom-
pji,edi with ; upon wbich he sent his servant next day for
his son, who returned in twenty days time, bringing seve&
horses lqaded with valuable furs. At night the young Lord
vs&as conducted incognito intoour-^parlment, where his,fa-
L3
ther presented him to me. We (hen concerted (he best
ways for travelling, and after having bought a considerable
quantity of sabL s, black fox skins, fine ermines, &c.
(which I sold at Archangel at a good price,) we set out from
(his city the beginning of June, making a small caravan, be-
ing about thirty-two horses and camels, of which I repre-
sented the head. My )oung Lord had with him a very
faithful Siberian servant, well acquainted with the roads.
We shunned the principal towns and cities,.as Tumen, Soli,
Kamoskoi, and several others, by reason of their strictness
in examining travellers lest any of the banished persons of
distinction should escape. Having passed the river Kama,
we came to a city on the European side, called Soloy Ka-
moskoi, where we found the people mostly Pagans as before.
We then passed a desert of about two hundred miles over;
but in other places it is near seven hundred. In passing
this wild place, we were beset by b troop of men on horse-
back, and about five and forty men armed with bows and
arrows. At first they IooLcd earnestly on us, and then
placed themselves in our way. We were above sixteen
hien, and drew up a little line before our camels. My
young Lord sent out his Siberian servant to know who
they were; but, when he approached them, he neither
knew a word they said, nor would they admit him to come
near them at his peril, but prepared to shoot him. At his
return> he told us he believed them to be Calmuck Tar-
tars ; and that there were more upon the desert. This was
but a small comfort to us; yet seeing a little grove, about
a quarter of a mile distance, we moved to it, by the old
Portuguese pilot's advice, without meeting with any oppo-
sition* Here we found a marshy piece of ground, and a
spring of water1 running^into a little brook on one side,
which joined another like it a little farther off, and these
two formed the head of the river called Writska. As soon
as we arrived, we went to work, cutting great arms off the
trees, and laying them hanging not quite off from one tree
to another. In this situation we waited the motion of the
enemy, without perceiving any advancement they made
towards us. About two hours before night, being joined
by some others, in all about fourscore horses, among whom
we fancied were some women, they came upon us with great
fury. .We fired without ball, calling to them in the Russian
tongue, to know their business; but they either not know*
ing, or seeming not to understand us, came directly to the
wood-side, not considering '.hat we were so fortified, as that
thsy could, not break in. ' Our old pilot, the Portuguese,
proved both our captain and engineer, and desired us not
to fire till they came within pistol shot; and when he gave
the word of command, then to take the surest aim ; but he:
did not bid us give tire, till they were wi«bin two pikes length
of us, and then we killed fourteen offhem, wounded seve-
ral, as also their, horses, having'every one of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least. So much were
they surprised at our undauutedness, thirihey retired-about"
a hundred roods from us. "In ihe mean whilewe loaded-
our pieces again, and sallying out, secured four or five of
their horses, whose jiders we found were killed, and per-
ceived them to be Tartars. About an hour after, they
made another attempt, to see where^they- might-'break in;-
but finding us ready to receive them, they retired*
All that night we wrought hard* in strengthening our
situation, and barricading th(r entrance into the woods mr
but when daylight came, we had a-very unwelcome dis-
covery; for the enemy being encouraged by their num-
bers, had set up elevea or twelve tents, in form of a-camp,
about three quarters of a mile from us. I must confess, I
was never more concerned in my life, giving myself and'
all lhat I had over for lost. And my partner declared, that
as the loss of his goods would be hfs ruin, before they should
be taken from him, he would fight to the last drop of hi*
blood. As we could not pretend to force our way, we had
recourse to a stratagem; we kindled ,1 large Bre, which
burnt all night; and no sooner was it dark, but we pursued
our journey towards the pole, or north star; and travelling
all night, by six o'clock in the morning- we came to a.Rus-
sian village, called Kertza, and from thence came to a large
town named Ozonzoys, where we heard that several troops
of Calmuck Tartars had been abroad upon the desert, but
that we were past all danger: In five days after we came
tt) Veuslima, upon the river Wilzsdga; from .thence we
came to Lawrehskoy,- on the third of July; where, provi-
ding ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a convenient
bark, we embarked the seventh, and arrived at Archangel
the eighteenth, after a year,, five months, and »three days
journey, including the eight months and odd days at To-
bolbki". We came from Archangel the iiOlh of August in
1.4
the same year, and .arrived at Hamburgh the 30th of Sep-
1 ember. Here my partner and I made a very good sale oi
aur goods, both those of China and Siberia ; when* dividing
our effects, my share came to 34,757. 17s. 3-d. after all ike
looses vve had, sustained, and charges we had been at.
Here the youn^ Lord took his leave or'me, in order to go*
to the Court ct Vienna* not only to seek protection, bat u>
correspond with his father's friends; A.'ter vve had staid;
four months in Hamburgh, I went from thence over-land'
to the Hague, where embarking in the packet, I arrived in
London the lOlhof January, 1703, after ten-yeari andnine_
months absence from England'.
VISION OF THE AKGEL1C W0R£Dv
CHAI^ I.
OF SOLITUDE.
However solitude is looked upon, as a restraint to (be
pleasure of the world, in company and coRUQps&tion, yet it
>s a happy stale of exemption from, a st-a of trouble, an
inundation of vanity and vexation., of confusion and disap-
pointment. While we erjoy ourselves, neither, the joy nor
sorrow of oiher men affect us: We- arc then- at liberty,
with Che.voice of our soul, to speak to Go,d. By this, we
shun such frequent trivial discourse, a* often, becomes an ob^-
sUrucrion to virtue : and how often do we find that we had
reason to wish, we had not been in.company> or said nothing
when vve were there? for either we oiiended God.by fhe. Ten-
plezy of our discourse, or lay ourselves open to the violence
e-f'designing people by cjuf unguarded expressions,; and
frequently feci the coldness and treachery of pretended
friends,-when once involved-in trouble and affliction ; of
such unfaithful intimates;, (I.should say enemies,) who,, raphes
by false inuendoes would.accumulate miseFies-upoi) us,, (ban
hcmesily assist us when under the hajrd hand of adversity,
But in a state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard>
except from the great Majesty of Heaven, how taappy ar§
we in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with our,,Ma-
ker! It is then we, make him our friend,, which seises
aE.'aotffN-soN crusolE.".- 2$^*
above the envy and contempt of wicked men. When a,
inan converses with himself, he is sure (hat he does wot
converse with an enemy. Our retrsai should be-(a g-aod
company, and good books. I mean not by solitude, th%t-
a^man should retire into a cell, a desert, or-a monastery:."
which would be altogether a^n useless and unprofitable re-
straint: for; as men are formed Cor society, and have an,
absolute necessity -and dependence upon one another, so "•
t&ere is a retirement pf the soul, with which/it converses in
heaven, even in the midst of men j and indeed no man i*
more fit to speak-freely^ than he who can, without any
violence to himself, refrain his tongue, or keep silence alto-
gether. As to religion/ it is by this the soul gets, acquaint- -
ed with the hidden mysteries of-the holy writings; here
sbefinds- those floods of tears, in which good men wash them-
selves clay and night, and only makes a vi^it to God, and
his holy angels. In this conversation* the truest peace and
most solid joys are to be found ; it is a continual feast of "
contentmenLon earth, and the means of attaining everlasfe— -
ing. happiness in heaven. -
CHAP. II.
OF HONESTY.
Hon est y is a virtue beloved by good men, and pretended
to by all other persons. In this there are several degrees;
to pay every man his. own is the common law-of honesty j *
but to do good to all mankind, is the chancery law of ho* -
nesty; and this chancery cp,urt is in every man's breast,
where his conscience is a Lord Chancellor. Hence it is,
that a miser, though \\e. pays every body their own, cannot
be an4ionest man, when he does not discharge.the good
ofces-that are incumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous
person : fbxy-saith the prophet Isaiah, chap, ^rxxii. ver. 7, 8,
'f The. instruments'of a churl are evil:, he deviselh wricked- 
devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when ,
the needy speaketk rights But the liberal soul 4e?iseth
Kberal things, and by liberal things shall he stand." " It i&*
certainly (mnest to do every thing the law requires; but
sk<*fild we throw e?ery poor debtor into prison till he lias.
L5
paid the utmost farthing, hang every malefactor without
mercy, exact the penalty of every bond, and the forfeiture
of every indenture, this would be downright cruelty, and
. |iot honesty1; and it is contrary to that general rule, " To do
to another, that which you would* have done unto you/'
* Sometimes necessity makes an h^est man a knave; and a
r?ch man an honest man4 because he has no occasion to be
a knave. , Thevtrial of honesty is this: Did you ever want
bread, and had your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would
starve rather than eat it? Were you ever arrested,, having
in your custody another man's cash, and would rather go to
gaol, than break it ? if so, this indeed may be reckoned ho-
nesty. For King Solomon tells us, u That a good name is
better than life, and is a precious ointment, and which,
when a man has once lost, he has nothing left worth keeping.'*
chap, nu
Of the present state of RELIGION in the World.
I do©bt, indeed, there is much more devotion than reli-
gion in the world ; more adoralion lhan supplication ; and
more hypocrisy than sincerity : and it is very melancholy ta
consider, what numbers of people there are furnished witb
the powers of reason and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned
to/ the gtossest ignorance and depravity. But h would be
uncharitable for us to imagine (as some.papists, abounding
with too much ill-nature, the only scandal to religion, do)'
that they will certainly be in a state of damnation after this
Jife: or how can we think it consistent with the mercy and
goodness of an infinite Being, to damn those creatures, when-
he has not furnished thern with the light of the gospel? or
how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots, prescribe,
miles to the justice and mercy of God ?
We are told by some people, that the great image which1
King Nebuchadnezzar set up to be adored by his people,
held the representation of the sun in his right-hand, as the
principal object ©f adoration. But to wavts this discourse of
Heathens, how many self-contradicting principles are there
held among Christians ? and-bow do we dootn one another
to the-devil, while all profess to worship the same DeityK
and,to expect the.same salvaiioni
When I was in "Portugal, there was held at that time the
court of justice of the inquisition. All the criminals were
carried in procession to the great church, wliere eight of
them were habited in gowns and caps of canvas, whereon
the torments of hell were displayed, and they were con-
demned and burnt for crimes against the Catholic faith and.
blessed Virgin.
1 am sorry to make any reflections upon Christians; butf
indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the most cruel and*
mercenary upon earth ; and a very judicious person, who-
travelled through Italy from Turkey, tells, "That there is
u only the face and outward pomp of religion there : that
(i the church protects murderers and assassins, and then de-
** livers the civil magistrates over to Satan for doing justice ^
" interdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches for*
ts want of paying a Few ecclesiastical dues/ and so puts a
'* a stop to religion for want of their money : that the court'*-
*' of inquisition, burnt two men for speaking dishonourably
** of the blessed Virgin ^ and the missionaries of China to—
u lerated the worshiping the devil by their new converts:
'* that Italy was the theatre, where religion was the grand
"opera; and that the popish clergy were no other than*
" the stage players."
As to religion in Poland, they deny Christ* to-be the-
Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in the ffeh. And!
as to their Protestants, they are the followers of Loelius So--
cuius, who denied our Saviour's divinity ; and have no con-
cern about the divine inspiration of the Holy G-host
In Muscovy, their churches are built of wood, and indeed,,
they have but wooden priests, though of th& Greek church ;;
they pray as much-to saint Nicholases the Papistsdo to the -
Virgin Mary^fOr protection in all their difRcultiesorafflictions,
- As to the Lutherans, they only differ fr©m the Romans in-
believing consubstantiation, instead of transubstantialion ;.-,
but, like them, they are much pleased wilbtha externafcgal-
lantry and pomp, more than the true and real practice QViL
In France I found a world of priests, the streets every-
where crowded with them, and the churches full ofwam^n:.:
but surely never was a nation so full of blind guides, so. ig-
norant of religion, and-even so void.of morals, as thus^>
people who confess their sins to them..
Does it not seem stranga, that, while all men own the>:>
]>ivnne Bjing, there should b3 so many dilT^nt opinions
b G.
i 2i5& ., LIFE AN1> ABVENTEJRES
as to the manner of paying him obedience in the Christian
church I I know not what reason to assign for this, except
ii be their different capacities and faculties.
And, indeed, upon this account,, we have perceived, in-
all Christian countries, what, mortal feuds have been about
religion ; what wars and bloodshed have molested Europe,
till the general picification of the German troubles at the
treaty of .Westphalia ; and since those times, what persecu-
tion in the same country among the churches of the Luthe-
rans ; and should I take a prospect at home, what unhappy
divisions are between Christians in this kingdom, about
Episcopacy and Presbytery; the church of England and the-
Dissenters opposing one another like St. Paul and St. Pecer*
even to the face; that is, they carry on the dispute to the -
utmost extremity.
It might be a question, why there are such differences in
religious points, and why these breaches should be more
hot and irreconcilable ? All the answer I can give to this>.
is, that we inquire more concerning the truth of religion,
than any other nation in the world ; and the anxious con-
cern we have about it, makes us jealous of every opinion,
and tenacious of our own i and this is not because we are-
more furious and rash than other people ; but the truth is+.
we are more concerned about them, and being sensible that
the Scripture is the great rule of faith* the standard for life
and doctrine,, we have recourse to it ourselves,, without sub-
mitting to any pretended infallible judge upon earth.
There is another question pertinent to the former, and
that is, What remedy can we apply to this malady ? And la
this I must negatively answer. Not to be less religious* that
we may differ the less. This is striking at the very root of
all religious differences ; for, certainly, were they to bfe
carried on with a peaceable spirit,., willing to-be informed,
our variety of opinions would not have the name of differ-
ences; nor should we separate in communion of charily,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion,
Nor is there a less useful question to start, napieiy, Where
will our unhappy religious, differences end ? To which, I
hope, I may answer, in Heaven j there all unchristian and
unbrotherly differences will find a period ; there we sh-all
embrace many a sinner, that here we think it a dishonour
to converse with ; and perceive many a heart we have bro-
kfu here with censures, reproaches, and reviling*, mackv
whole again by the balm of the same Redeemer's blood.—
Here we shall perceive there have been other flocks fhati
those of our fold ; that those we have excommunicated have
been taken into that superior communion ; and, in a word,
that those contradicting notion^ and principles which we
thought inconsistent with true religion, we shall then'find
reconcilable to themselves, to one another, and to the foun-
tain of truth. If any man ask me, Why our differences can-
not be ended on earth ? I answer, Were we all thoroughly;,
convinced that then they would be reconciled, we would
put an end to them before; but this is impossible to be don#*
for as men's certain convictions of truth are not equal to
one another, or the weight^of signifkancy of such veracity*
so neither can a general effect of this arfeir be. expected on,
this-side of time.
Before I conclude this chapter, I shall beg;Ieave to*Hs~
course a little on the wonderful excellency.of negative re-
b'gion and negative virtue. The latter sets out, like the
Pharisee, with—God, I thank thee : it is-a piece of religi-
ous pageantry,, the hypocrite's hope:, and,.in a word, it is
positive vice : for it is-eithera mask to deceive others, or a
mist to deceive ourselves, A man that is clothed with ne-
gatives, thus argues : I am not such a drunkard as my land-
lord,such a thief as my tenant, such a swearer as his neigh-
bour; neither am I a cheat, an atheist, a rakish fellow* oe
a highwayman; no 1 I live a sober, regular, retired life-: I
am a good man, I go to churchy God, 1 thank thee. Now,
though a man boast of his virtue in contradiction to the
vices mentioned, yet a person had better have them alto-
gether than the man himself; for he is full of himself;, so
persuaded that he is good and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, except it be to pull off
his hat to God Almighty now and then, and thank him that
he has no occasion tor him ; and has the vanity to think
that his neighbours must imagine well of him too.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is yet in-
toxicated with the pride of his own worth; a good neigh-
bour and peace-maker in other families,, but a tyrant in his*
own; appears in a church fbr a show, but never falls upon
his knees in his closet ; does all his alms before men, to be
seen of them; eager in the duties of the second table, bat
regardless of the first; appears religious, to be taken notice
of by men, but without intercourse <*r Sommumcation be^
(ween God and his own soul: Prav, what is this man ?
of what comfort is there of the life he lives ? He is insensible
of faith, repentance, and a Christian mortified life : in a word,
he is perfectly a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and retired part
of his conversation ; What notions has he of his mis-spent
hours, and of the progress of time to the great centre and
gulf of life, eternity ? Does he know how to put a right
value on time, or esteem the life-blood of his soul, as it
really is, and act in all the moments of it, as one that must
account for them ? if then you can form an equality between
what he can do and what he shall receive, less can be
founded upon his negative virtue, or what he has forborne-
to do : And if neither his negative nor positive piety can
be equal to the reward, and to the eternity that reward is
to last for, what then is to become of the Pharisee, when
he is to be judged by the'sincerity of his repentance, and
rewarded, according to the infinite grace of God, with a
state of blessedness to an endless eternity ?
When the negative man converses with the invisible
world, be is filled with as much horror and dread as Felix,,
vvhen St. Paul reasoned to him of temperance, righteous-
ness, and of judgment to come ; for Felix, though a great
philosopher, of great power and reverence, was a negative
man, and he was made sensibLe by the Apostle, that, as a
life of virtue and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life, so eter-
nal happiness must proceed from another spring; namely,,
the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked God, who hav-
ing erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus Christ would sepa-
rate such as by faith and repentance he had brought home
and united to himself by the grace of adoption, and on the
foot of his having laid down his life as a ransom for them,.
liad appointed them to salvation,, wnen^all the philosophy^
temperance,, and righteousness in the world besides had',
been ineffectual. And tliis, I say, it was, that made Felix*,
this negative man, tremble.
chap. IV.
Of listening to the voicjs of Providence.
The magnificent and wise king .Solomon b:d< us cry after-
knowledge, and. lift up our voice for. understandingj-by-
which is meant, religious knowledge; for it follows; <l Then
shalt thou understand the fear of (he Lord, and find the
knowledge of God." By which undoubtedly he meant to
inquire after every thing he has permitted as to know, and
not search into those ways that are unsearchable, and are
effectually locked up from- our knowledge.—Now, u as
listening to the voice of Providence" is my present subject,
I intend, in the first place, to write to those who own—1.
That there is a God, a first great moving cause of all things,
an eternal power, prior, and consequently superior to all
created power or being.—2. That this eternal power, which
is God, is the sovereign creator and governor of heaven and
earth.
Toavoidall needlessdistinctions, what persons in theGod-
head exercises the creating, and what the governing power,
Ioffer that glorious text, Psal. xxiii. 6\ where the whole
Trinity is entitled to the whole creating work: and therefore,
in the next place, I shall lay down these two propositions:
I. That the eternal God guides, by his Providence, the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
II. That this Providence manifests a particular care over,
and concern in, the governing and directing man, the most
noble creature upon earth.
It is plain, that natural religion proves the first, by inti-
mating the recessity of a Providence guiding and govern- *
hig the world, from the consequence of the wisdom, justice,
prescience, and goodness of the Almighty Creator: for
otherwise it would be absurd to think, that God should
create a world, without any care or providence over it,, in
guiding the operations of nature, so as to preserve the
order of his creation.
Revealed religion,gives us a light into the care and con-
cern of his providence, by the climate's being made habit-
able, the creatures subjected and made nourishing, and all
vegetative life made medicinal ; and all this for the sake of
man, who is made viceroy to the King of the earth. The
short description I shall give of Providence is this l "That
it is that operation of the power, of the wisdom, justice,
and goodness of God, by which he influences,governs, and
directs, not only the means, but the evt nts of all things,'
Which concerns us in this.sublunary world; Ihe sovereignty
of which we ought always to reverence, obey its motions,,
ob&eWe ib^dieiates,' and. listen,to its voice, The prudent
man foreseeth the evil, and hideth' himself; that i%\as I take
it, there is a secret Providence intimates-to as, that some
danger threatens* if we strive not to, shun it/7.
The same day that Sir John Hfrtham kept out Hull against'
the royal Martyr King Charles J;\ the same day Sir John
Holham was put to death by the parliament for that very
action :The same day that the King himself signed the war- -
rant forthe execution of the Earl of'Strafford, the same d^y
of the month was-he barbarously murdered by the blood-
thirsty Oliverian crew :and the same day that King James IL
came to the crown against the bill of exclusion, the sam§
day he was- voted abdicated by the parliament, and the-
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden danger, is
rrot'ordy-a just call to repentance, but a caution against fall-
ing into the like danger; but such who are utterly careless-
of. themselves after, show a lethargy of the worst natur-e,
which seems to me to be a kind of practical atheism, or at
least living in a contempt of Heaven, when he receives
good at the hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned from
whence it comes, or to thank the bountiful hand that gave .
it; neither, when he receives evil, does it alter his manner
of life, or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being con-
demned to death in Flanders. The General beingprevailed
upon to spare one of them, ordered them to cast dice upqn
the drum-head for their lives ; the first having thrown two
sixes, the stcond fell a wringing his hands, having so poor a
chance to .escape ; however, having thrown, he was surprised .
when he also threw other two sixes. The officer appointed
to see iho execution, ordered them to throw again; they
did so, and each of them threw fives ^ al which the soldiers-
that stood round, shouted, and said, neither of them was to
die. Upon this, the officer acquainted the council of war, .
who ordered them to throw a>third time, when they threw-
two fours: the General being acquainted with it, sent for
fhe men, and pardoned them ; I love, said he, in such ex-
traordinary cases, to listen to the voice of Providence.
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks to men
by appearances of angels, or by dreams and visions of the
night. As God appeared to Abraham, Lot, and Jacob :
so angels have appeared to many in other cases, as to Ma-
Raan and. his wife, Zachariahi the Virgin Mary, and io 4he><-
Apostles ; others have been warned in a, drearn> as King.
Abimelech, the false prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a vtry great and noble inquiry, " What we;
shall be after this lifer3' for there is scarce a doubt that:
there is a place reserved for the reception of our soujs after
death ; for if we are to be, we mast have a where, which,
the Scriptures a^ert by the examples of Divesand Lazarus.
The doctrine of spirits was long believed before our Sa-
viour's time ; for when the disciples of the blessed «Iesus
perceived our Saviour walking on the sea, they were as,
much surprised as though they had seen a spirit. Nay,ia
those ages of the world, it was believed that spirits inter-,
meddled in the affairs of mankind ; and throughout the Old
Testament, I do not find any thing that in the least con-?
Uadjcls it. All th^e pains and labour that some learned men
have taken, to confute the s(ory of the witch of Endor, and
the appearance of an old man personaiing Samuel*, cannot
make such apparitions inconsistent with nature or religion;,
and it is plain,, that it was. either a good or a bad spirit* thai
prophetically told the unfortunate king what should happen
the next day; for, said the spirit, u The Lord will deliver,
^(hee into the hands of the Philistines; and to-morrow;
et* shalt thou and thy sons be with mo/'
Abundance of strange notions possessed me, when I was.
in the desolate island ; especially on a, moonshine night,
when every bu<h seemed u man,, and every tree a man on
horseback, When I crept into the dismal, eav»e where the
old goat lay expiring, whose articulate groans even resent
bled those of a man, how was I surprised 1 ray blood chil-
led in my veins, a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead,.
m>y hair stood upright, and my joints, like Bels,ha?zarV
knees, struck against one another. And* indeed, though!
afterwards found what it was, the remains of this surprise
did not wear olf for a great while ; ajul [ had frequently
ieturns of those vapours on different occasions, and some-
limes without any occasion at all.
One night* after having seen some appearance in the any
as I had just laid down in my bed, one of my feet pajned
me ; after that came a numbness, succeeded with a tingling,
in my blood; when on a sudden I thought something alive
lay upon me, from my knee to above half my leg. Upon,
th^s 1 flung myself out of bed where I thought the- creature
lay; but finding nothing) " Lend, deliver me from,an crn^
spirit," said I ; " what can this be?" When I lighted a
candle, I could perceive no living creature in the place
with me, but the poor parrot, who being frightened, cried
out, " Bold your tongue/' and " What's the matter with
your'5 which Words I had taught him by saying so to him,
when he had made such screaming noises as I did not like.
"Lord," said I aloud, " surely the devil has been here/'
" Hold your tongue," says Poll. I was then mad at the
bird, and putting on my clothes, cried, i( lam terribly
** frightened." " What's, (he matter with your" says Poll.
44 You load," said I, rt I'll knock your brains out." " Hold
u your tongue/' cried he again, and so fell a chattering,
and called Robinson Crusoe, as he did before. But after
1 had composed myself, and went to bed again, I began
plainly to see it was a distemper that affected ray nerves,
and so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not know;
nor are we sensible how ihey are conveyed from spirits cm-
bodied to ou?s that are in life ; or, on the contrary, from us
to them ; the latter is certainly done without the help of the
organs, and the former is conveyed by the understanding,
and the retired* faculties of the soul".
The spirits, without the help of voices, converse; and
the more particular discoveries of converse of the spirits,
seem to me as follow : to wit, dreams, voices, noises, im-
pulses, hints, apprehensions, involuntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God himself was
pleased to warn men what services to perform and what to
shun. 'Joseph was directed of God in a dream t<$ go to
Egypt; and so were the wise men warned in a dream to
depart into their own country another way, to avoid the
fury of Herod. I am not like those who think dreams are
the mere designs of a delirious head, or the relics of a day's
perplexities or pleasures; but on the contrary, I must beg
leave to say, I never met with any capital mischief in my
life, but I had some notice of it by a dream ; and had I not
been a thoughtless, unbelieving creature, I might have taken
many a warning, and avoided many of the evils I after-
wards fell into, merely by total neglect of those dreams.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman and a
clergyman, upon the subject of dreams. The first thought
no regard should be given unto them : that their communi-
cation from the invisible to the visible world was a mere
Chimera; without any solid foundation. For, ftrsi, said he,
if dreams were from "the agency of any prescient being, the
motives would be more direct, and the discoveries more
plain, and not by allegories and emblematic fancies, ex-
pressing things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid it, it
is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely fortuitous.
3. That the inconstancy of such notices, in cases equally
important, proves they did not proceed from any such agent.
4. That as our most distinct dreams had nothing in them of
amy significance, it would be irrational and vain to think
that they came from heaven. And, 5. That as men were
not always thus warned or supplied with notice of good or
evil, so all men are not alike supplied with them ; and what
reason could we give, why one man or ©ne woman should
not have the same hints as another r
To all this the clergyman gave answer: 1. That as to-
the signification of dreams, and the objections against thenv
as being dark and doubtful, they are expressed generally by
hieroglyphicai representations,similies, allusions, and figura-
tive emblematic ways, by which means, for want of inter-
pretation, the thing was not understood^ and, consequently,
the evil not shunned. 2. That we charge God foolishly,
to say, that he has given the notice of evil, without the
power to avoid it; for, If any one had not power to avoid
the evil, it was no notice to him ; and it was want of giving
due heed to that notice, that men first neglected themse!ve5t
and tben charged the Judge of all the earth with injustice.
3, That we ought not to find fault with the inconstancy of
these notices, but rather with our weak understandings,
by pretending dreams; were not to be regarded, and negli-
gent when the voice really spoke to us for our good. It is
a mistake to say dreams have no import a.t all: we might,
with more reason, have said, none that we could perceive
the reason of, owing to our blindness and supine negligence,
too secure at one time, and too much alarmed at another;
so that the spirit, which we might be said to be conversing
with in a dream, was constantly and equally kind and care-.
fill j but our powers are not always in the same state of
action, not equally attentive to, or retentive of the hints
that were given. And *. To answer the last question,
Why people are not equally supplied ? This seems to be
no quesiion; for Providence itself might have some-share in
the direction of it, and- then ihat Providence might be,It«
mited by a superior direction ; that as.to iheconv-erse of
spirits, he cdald not call it a stated converse : such a, thing,
there was, but why there was, so much of it, aod ao more,-
was none of hi* business, and that no such discovery had?
ever yet been niad.e to. mankind. Nor were we to inisginej
less of waking dreams*, trances, visions, noises, hints, im-.
pulsesj and all the waking testimonies of an invisible worlds
and of the communication that there is between us and
them, which commonly entertain us wkh our open-eyes.
One time my fancy soared on high, to see what discon-
tents I could make in those clearer regions^ I found tbafc
such immense bodies* as the sun, stars, planets, and moon^
ia the great circle of the lower heaven, aire far fron>being-
found in the study.,of nature, on the surface of the earth.
Here I saw many things that we can ertertajn kttle or no;
notion of, in a state of common life, and the emptiness of
our notion,, thai the placets are. habitable worlds; that i%
created like ours, for the subsistence and existence of man
and beast, and the preservation of the uegetative and sensi-
tive life: No^ no ; this i^ I assure yoi% a world of spirits, y
for here I saw a clear demonstration of Satan, bei»g the
prince of the ftoivcr of ike air, peeping his court orcamp^
with innumerable angels to attend him ; but his powsi; ip~
not so great as we imagine, he can tempt us to ihecrir&e,
but cannot force us to commit; HwiiatHim.esLpeecare. Nei-
ther has the-d<evII power to force the world into a rebellion
against h^a,ven, though "his legions, are employed ajpojog
savage nations, to s.et up their master for agod, who rmtke
the heathens-either worship him in person, o/ by his repre^
sentative.s, idols and m,OAsters? with ike cruel sacrifices of
human blooxL Now,, as. to- tlie limitatians of the deyir&
power, you must understand, that, as, there are numbers of
evil spirits employed ia mischief, sa tbere ar,© numbers of
good angels sgnl. Ijcom. the higher and blessed abodes to olt&~
concert and oppo.se thei? m-easures^ and thia every Christian*
I hope, believes, when he prays to God, the father of spi^~
wes* to give his angels charge over htm while he sluinSe*-
eth and sieepelh. For if- by these preventing powers the
devjl was not restrained, thq earth would be subjected to
deartbi-droughts, and famine; - the air infected with noxious -
fun>es; and, in a. word, mankind would be utterly destroyed,
which miglU obhgfi our Maker (if I may be allov*ed the-
<fr roStnsou crosoi;, 264
expression) to the necessity of a newjmt^oi else have no
more creatures to honour and worship him.
As (he devil never wanked insinuators, I shall observe
that I learned a "way how to make a man dream of what T
pleased. For instance, let us suppose one to be sound
asleep; let another lay his mouth close to his ear, and whis-
per any thing so softly, as not to awake him, the sleeping
man shall <rream of what has been so whispered in his ear;
xiaj) lean assure you, th^se insinuating devils can do tbrs
even when we are awake, which I call impulses of the mind;
for from whence, but from theseinsinuators, come our cause-
less passions, involuntary w*ekedness,*>r sinful desires? Who
else form ideas in the mind ofman^when he is asleep, or pre-
sent terrible or beautiful figures to his fancy ? Mr. Milton
-represents the devil tempting Eve in the shape of a toad,
lyrngjust at her ear, when in her b^-wer she lay fast-asleep;
and brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
*e$t she had, and relating her dream to hiaa. And likewise
I bebeve that good spirits have the same intercourse -wifii
us, in warning us against those things that are evil, and
prompting us to that which is good.
Were we to have the eyes of our souls opened, through
*ihee.yes of our bodies, we should see ihis very immediate
mgi&n of air which we breathe in, thronged with spirits
-now invisible, and 'which otherwise would be the most ter-
rible; we should view the secret transactions of those mes-
sengers who are employed when the parting soul takes its
leave of the reluctant body, and perhaps see things Nature
would shrink back from with the utmost terror and amaze-
meot In a word, the curtain of Providence for the dis-
position of things here, and the curtain of judgment for the
determination of the stale -of souls hereafter, would be alike
tirawn back; and what heart could1 support here its future
state in life; much less that of its future state after life,
-even good -or bad.
A gentleman of my acquairUance/benrg about seven trailes
distant from London, alriend that came to dine with hits,
solicited him to go to tire city. tc Whal,*J said the gentle-
man, " is there any occasion for me V9 li No, Sir/* said the
other, *' nothing at all, except the enjoyment of your good
company in a*id so gave over importuning him. Just then
a strong intake of mind urged trWgentleraati, and pursued
him like a~¥oice, with, u Go to London, Go to London/*
*' Hark ye," says he to his friend, " is all well at London?
Am I wanted there? Or, did you askmc to go with you on
any particular account? Are all my family well?'' if Yes,
indeed, Sir," said he, ul perceived them all very hearty-
and I did not ask; \ ou logo to London upon any particular
account wbatsoever.^xcept it was for the sake ofyourgood
company." Again he put off his resolution : but still the
impulse Suggested to him, "Go to London ;" and at length
he did so. Wi en he came there, he found a letter, and a
messenger had been there to seek him, and to tell him of a
particular business, which was at first and last above a thou-
sand pounds to him, and which might inevitably have been
lost, had he not gone to London that night.
The obeying ot several hints, or secret impulses, argues
great wisdom. 1 knew a man that was under misfortunes,
being guilty of misdcmeanois against the government;
when, absconding for fear of bis iuln, all his friends advi--'
sing him not to put himself into the hands of the law, one
morning as he awaked, he fell a strong impulse darling in-
to his mind thus, " Write? a letter to them;" and this was
repeated reveral times to his mind, and at last he answered
to it, as if it had been a voice, '• Whom shall I write tor"
Immediately it replied, " Write to the Judge :" and this'
impulse pursued him for several days, till at length he look
pen, ink, and paper, and sat down to write to him : when
immediately words flowed from his pen like streams from
a fair fountain, that charmed even himself with hopes of
success. In shoi t, the letter was so strenuous in argument,
so pathetic in its eloquence, and so persuasively moving,
that when the judge had read it, he sent him an answer, he
might be easy, he would' endeavour to make that matter1
light to him : and, indeed, never left exerting himself till'
he had stopt the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty
and family.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks it is very *
hard that we should obey the whispers of evil spirits, und
not much rather receive the notices which good ones are <
pleased to give. We never perceive the misfortune of this, T
but when in real danger ; and then we cry, " My mind mis- ;
gave me when I was going about it;" but if so,„\vhy doyou >
slight Ihe caution ? Why not lrsten to it as to a voice? and <
then,there had .been no reason ,to make this complaint,
I remember about fourteen or fifteen years ago (as to
time I cannot be very positive) Lhere was a-;young clergy-
man in the city of Dublin, in Ireland, who dreamed a very
uncommon dream, That a gentleman had/killed his wife, a
relation of his, by stabbing her in several places; the fright
of this awakened him, but rinding it a dream, he composed
himself again to sleep, when he dreamed a second lime the
same dream- This made him a little uneasy ; but thinking
it proceeded from the impression made upon his mind by the
former, he went to sleep again, and dreamed the same
dream a third time aho. So troubled was he at this, that
he rose, and knocked at his mother's chamber, told his
concern, and his apprehensions that all was not right at his
relation's hou^e. " Dear Son," says the good old gentle-
woman, 4( do not mind those foolish dreams; and I v^iy
much wonder, that you, being a person in holy orders, should
havejr^gard to such illusions." Upon this he went to bed
again, tell asleep, and dreamed a fourth time as before.—
And then indeed he put on his night-gown, and went to
Smithfield, the place where his relation dwelt. Here it
was, alas! he perceived his dream too sadly fulfilled, by
seeing his relation, the young lady, big with child, who. was
a protestant, stabbed in several places by her barbarous
husband, Mr. Eustace, a violent Papist, only for some dis-
courses of religion that happened the day before. After
the wretch had stabbed her in three places, he went to
make his escape out at a window ; but she cried out,
" My dear:! don't leave me, come back and I shall be well
again/'' At which he returned in a hellish rage, and gave
her four wounds more ; when even in this condition, rising
from her bed, she wrapped herself in her nigh: gown, and
went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's chamber door, (the
;3ishopilodging at that lime in the house,) " My Lord," said
she, u O my Lord, make haste unto me;" but as soon as
,his Lordship came, she expired in his arms, resigning her
precious soul into the.hands of Almighty God. The cruel
wretch, her husband, was shot by the pursuers; too good a
death for one who deserved the gibbet: and the lady was
universally lamented by all tender and religious people.
And this tragical relation I have mentioned, upon, the ac-
count of that impulse, or dream, that the clergyman had
at (he fatal time of the bloody action.
Some people make a very ill use of the general notion,
that there are no apparitions nor spirits at all: which is
2tH 'MFE AN DAD V E NTUR "E*S > &C.
Averse than 'those who fa hey ihey see tbem upon every o/C*
evasion; f^r those carry their notions further, even to an-
nihilate (he dtvil, and'believe nothing about him, neither
of one kind rr other: the next step they come to, is to
conclude, " There is no God/' and so atheism takes its
rise in the same sink, xvith a -carelessness about "futurity.
But there is no occasion to en let upon an argument to prove
the being of the Almighty, or to illustrate his power by
words, *who has so many -undeniable testimonies in 'life
breasts of every rational being to prove his existence: and
we have sufficient proofs enough to convince us of the
.^reat superintendency of Divine Providence in theminutest
liflairs of this world ; the manifest existence of fhe invi-
" sible world ; the reality of spirits, and intelligence between
jus and thtm. What I have said, I "hope, will not mislead
-any person, or be a means whereby they may delude them-
selves ; for 1 ha\e spc-ken of these things with the utmo&t
seriousness of mind, and \n ixh a sincere and ardent desire
"£or the general good,and' benefit of the world.
THE EtfB.
From iht Office of
IWVOM'AS WJ'tSuN ancTSOft,
Iligh-Ousegaie,YorIu
"2
