THE
LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
ORIGINALLY WRITTEN
BY DANIEL DEFOE.
REVISED FOR THE USE OF YOUNG PERSONS,
And illustrated with
SIXTEEN COPPER PLATES.
A Ntu> Edition, corrected and improved.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR C. CRADOCK AND W. JOY,
32, PATERNOSTER-ROW,
J. HARRIS; CHARLES LAW; BARTON, HARVEY, AND
DARTON; w. BARTON, HOIBORN HlLt •
AND CHAMPANTE AND WHITROW, JEWRY STREET,
By E. Biacloiier, Took's Court, Chancery Law.
1813.
AD VER TISEMENT.
NOTWITHSTANDING the acknowledged merit
of DEFOE'S interesting narrative of the Adven-
tures of Robinson Crusoe, it will be admitted,
that, as he did not address it expressly to Young
Persons, it must contain many things which are
not well adapted to an early age, and which,
when read by them, it were better should be
omitted. At the same time, no book lays such
strong hold on the curiosity of Youth as this
narrative; and many eminent writers have strongly
recommended it, as deserving a preference over
every other human production, on account of the
lively picture it conveys of man residing in a
state of nature, and of the means necessary to
attain a state of enjoyment and easy subsist-
ence.
The design of the Editor, therefore, has been,
to render a book possessing such claims to po«
pularity as unexceptionable as possible. He has
at the same time preserved the spirit of the
narrative; and, he believes, the story will not
be found to have lost any of its interest from the
verbal alterations which he has judged it neces-
sary to make.

ADVENTURES
t
1 • -• ,
,OP'
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of^
York, of wealthy, and respectable .parents. My
father intended to educate me for the professien
of 'the law; but I, unfortunately, acquired so
earnest a desire for going to sea, that not even
the commands of my father, the entreaties of my
mother, nor the remonstrances of my other
friends, could induce me entirely to conquer
my childish propensity..
For some time, indeed, after I first made my
inclination known, the calm and steady advice
of my father, which was accompanied with tears
of affection, so wrought upon me, that I resolved
2 ADVENTURES Of
not to-think any more of going to sea, and f#
conform myself to the affectionate wishes of my
parents: but, about twelve months afterward,
going by chance to Hull, I there met with a
former school-fellow, the son of a sea-captain,
who, unfortunately for me, was then going lo
London in his father's ship. This lad, not more
wise norprudent than myself, persuaded me to go
to, sea with him, which I, like an undutiful, un-
grateful son, consented to do; and, without more
consideration, abandoned my comfortable home,
and embarked on the first of September, leaving
.m^ .parents in utter ignorance what was become
<}f ine.
Scarcely had we put to sea when a violent
j, *. . *
storm arose, I was also excessively sea-sick;
and in the midst of my pain ami terror, I re-
pented bitterly of my folly, and made many good
resolutions for the government of my future con-
duct.
It was now that my want of duty, and my in-
gratitude to the best of parwits, wrung my
heuit; yet, no sooner was the storm over, and
my sickness abated, than the raillery of my com-
panion, tl:e captain's son, chased away all my
[rood resolutions: I became both satisfied with
ROBINSON CJIUSOE. 5
«y situation, and forgot Hie aaguisb which my
excellent parents were enduring for my sake.
-On the sixth day of our being at sea, we came
iato Yarmouth Roads, and the wind being con-
trary, we were ^biiged to cast anchor there. The
wind continued.during,fo;ur or five days to blow very
Jiard; but the sailors, thinking themselves as se-
cure as if they ,w.eie at anchor iii .a harbour, spent
.the time merrily. On the eighth day, however,
. it .blew a.terrible storm indeed, aml I bebejd ter-
ror and amazement in every countenance. Tfee
sea ran mountains high, and brok,e upon us every
three or four minutes. The seamen were coiHi-
. nnally exclaiming that the ship would founder.
I did not krtaw what they mea^t by founder, and
no one had leisure or composure cnougli to give
me any info.nnation. In the middle of the night
one of the men cried out that we, had sprung a
leak, and all hands were called to the pump. I
hoard the master express this melancholy ejacu-
la^ion, "Lord hav.c mercy upon us, we shall be
ail lost and undone,!" At that dreadful sound
I fell, backwards upon the bed where I was sit-
ting; but the men soon roused me, and drove
•Ju.u to ,lhe pump, saying, that if I .could zut
do any thing else, I was as able to pump as ae-
other.
The captain, meanwhile, ordered guns to be
fired, as signals of distress, and a ship at some
distance ventured to send out her boat to our
assistance. It was with the greatest danger
and difficulty that the boat could come near
us; but the sailors ventured their lives to save
ours; and we had not been more than a quarter
of an hour out of our ship, when we saw her sink
with her whole cargo on board.
The boat struggled many hours with the wind
and waves before she reached the shore. At
length, however, we got safe to hmd, and tra-
velled on foot to Yarmouth, where the Siftigis-
trates and inhabitants pitied our destitute condi-
tion; and,having lodged aud fed us for a few
days, they gave MS money to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
H,id I now had the sense and goodness to have
gone home again, I should have been happy, and
my father would have been spared the misery of
supposing I had perished; for it was some time
before he had any assurance of my having es-
caped drowning in the ship that h§d foundered at
sea: But false shame withheld me from doing
my duty; for it occurred to me that I should be
. laughed at among my neighbours and friends,
ond thus, like many other foolish young people,
I wus ashamed to repent, though I had not beta
ashamed to sin.
The evil influence which first carried me away
from my father's house, hurried me on with the
wild notion of making my fortune. I travelled
to London, and soon got acquainted with the
master of a vessel hound to the coast of Africa,
or, as sailors call it, to the coast of Guinea.
With this captain I engaged to go to Africa;
and having written to some of my friends, who,
1 suppose, prevailed on my father or mother to
contribute something towards my purchasing
what was necessary for my voyage, I had 401.
remitted to me, and bought with it such toys and
Articles as the captain told me I might baiter
nith the natives for gold dust.
My voyage was a very successful one; for I
brought home nearly &>Ul. in gold dust, and had
learned from the cu, lain, who took great pleasure
in giving me iosti.uction, the arts of navigation
. and mathematics. He also treated me as his
ion, and hswi he. lived he would have prevailed,
B a
on me to return to my parents; but scarcely had
the ship reached the port of London, when my
good friend, the captain, died, and his mate suc-
ceeded to the command of the vessel. Deter-
mined to purfue the course which had hitherto
proved so fortunate, I laid out 1001. in articles
for trafiic, depositing the other 2001. in the hands
of my friend, the captain's widow, and set sail a
second time for the coast of Guinea.
Our Mp steering towards the Canary Islands,
unfortunately fell in with a Turkish rover off
Sallee: an obstinate engagement ensued; but'
the pirates being superior in number, we were
compelled at length to yield, and were carried
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the
Moors. I was kept by the captain of the rover
as his own slave; but the rest of the company
were carried up the country to the emperor's
palace.
When my new master went to sea again he
left me on shore to do the usual drudgery of
slaves about his house and garden, and when
he came home from his cruise I was sect on
I
board the vessel to clean and look after the ship.
Many a sleepless night I spent in that cabin,
maurning over my hard fate in being condemned
to perpetual slavery, from which I saw no likeli-
'hood of escaping.
As I was young and active my master found
me constant employment, and made me assist in
building a little cabin in the middle of the long-
boat belonging to our English ship, which he was
now.fitting up for a pleasure-boat. We fre-
quently went out to fish in this boat; and one
day my master ordered us to have every thing
clean, and fit for the accommodation of several of
his friends, who were going on a party of plea-
sure with him,.
Three-fuse.es, with powder and ball, a case of
liquors, and a quantity of provisions, were sent
on board the boat on the appointed day, and I,
a Moorish slave, and a boy, were lying on our
oars, waiting the arrival of the company, when
our master came to the beach in great haste, and
ordered us to row out into the bay to catch some
fish as expcditiously as possible, as his guests
- were not going to sail that day, but were to sup
at his house with other company.
At this moment the hope of making my escape
darted into my mind. Beside the liquor and
provision on board, I knew there was plenty «f
twine in a locker, with a hatchet, a .saw, and.a
ihammer. The wiu 1 blew contrary to my wishes;
but I was resolved, blow which way it would, Jo
;be gone from slavery.
After .w had fished some time, and caught
nothing, (for when I had iish on niy hook I
would .not pull them up) I said to the Moor, this
will .not do; we must go farther put to sea. The
Moor made no objection; and having ran out a
^league, I gave the boy line helm, and slept for-
ward to where the Moor was busied with his fish-
ing tackle, and waking as if I stooped to pick up
something behind him, I took hiju by surprise,
and tossed him overboard.
He rose immediately, (tor he swam like a
cork) and begged to be taken in again; but I
presented a gun, and said, Moloy, I intend you
no harm, if you will not come near tbc boat:
make the best of your way to the shore: I know
you can reach it with ease, Put if you persist
in following me, I >vill shoot you through the
head; for I am resolved iq have my liberty. So
he turned round, ai(d wd\u as fast as possible to
regain the shore.
I was under thu necessity of serving the Moorish
slave thus, for i knew he was not to be trusted.
. Xury, the boy, was aji innocent, fiiiUiful,
•meaning lad; and I knew he would be both use-
ful and faithful to me.
After sailing five days I believed myself to be
safe from pursuit, and ventured near the coast,
and cast anchor near the mouth of a little river.
I could not tell what latitude or what country we
,were in, MY aim in coming to the shore was
to get fresh water, and as soon as it was dark I
intended swimming on shore for that purpose;
j but no sooner had the day closed, than we heard
the most dreadful roaring and howling of wikl
, beasts. Xury was excessively frightened, and
, indeed so was I; but our fears greatly increased
when we heard one of these hideous creatures
come swimming towards our boat. We could not
see him, yet by his blowing we knew him to be a
huge and furious beast. I tired at hint, upon which
he turned ,about and swam to the shore again,
howling moot horribly. We no longer thought
of going on shore: but in the morning we found
that the water at the mouth of the river was
fresh, as the sea-file was out; so; having t!;'u.t
our jar, we again set sail. . ,
After coasting several days longer, we 'came
again to an anchor under a little point .of land.,
e Xury presently discovered a monsitroys
lion, lying on the side of a hillock, fast asleep.
I loaded two of my guns, and firing the first, ex-
pected to have shot him dead; but my aim was
not a good one, for I only wounded him, and
broke one of his legs. He attempted to rise,
but instantly dropped with the most dreadful
roar I ever heard. As he lay struggling for life,
and uttering deep groans, Xury leaped into the
water, with the small gun in his haad, and Dom-
ing close to the lion, put the muzzle of the gun
to his ear, and fired into his head, which put
him in a moment quite out of his misery. But,
alas! the flesh of a lion was no food for us; and
I was sorry to have wasted my powder and shot.
I resolved, however, to have his skin; and hav-
ing got off the hide, we dried it in the sun, and it
served me to lie upon.
After this we bore away to the southward, and
with all the care I had taken of our provisions,
they were nearly exhausted, and I began to fear
we should perish for want of food, when we came
once more in sight of land, and perceived, as we
came nearer the shore, that it was inhabited by
negroes, who were .all perfectly naked. We were
afraid -to land among these people, who came in
crowds to the -beaeh to lo.ok at us; J.mt ,we made

ftt It/, tf/lae/t f>i7
/ <x
f iteS ifTataft * Cf
•
RDUIX-SOS' CRUS02. If
signs that we wanted something to eat,. upoii;
which two of them ran away, and presently re-
turned with a piece of dried fiesh and some
c,oru: these they brought to the edge of the
water, and then retired to a distance, (for they
were as much afraid of us as W£ of them.) while
Xury swam to the shore and brought it to the
boat.
We made signs of thanks, for we had nothing
1o give in return, when presently two wild beasts
. sprung from a neighbouring thicket, pursuing
each other with the utmost fury. The negroes
fled with great precipitation; but the Creatures,
intent only upon each other, plunged into the
sea. I seized upon my gun and fired upon the
first. lie immediately nvade for the shore, but
died before he reached it.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
the poor negroes at the noise and fire of my gun:
but when they saw the creature actually dead,
tbeir astonishment gave place to joy. It was a
heauttiidly spotted leopard. I gave the flesh to
the. negroes, who are very fond of it, but kept
the skin for myself. Having got some more corn
and some water from them, we again put to sea,
and beat about during eleven days without oifer-
ing to go near the shore. I now °;rew very pen-
sive, and was one morning meditating on my'
misfortunes, when Xury suddenly cried out,
"Master, master; a ship with a sail!" And the
foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs be one of his master's ships
sent to pursue us; but I knew we were got
far enough out of the reach of the Moors. I
jumped up, and immediately saw that it was a
Portuguese ship; and, as I thought, -bound to'
the coast of Guinea for negroes. But when I
observed the course she steered, I was soon
convinced they were bound some other way,
and did not design to come any nearer to the
shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as much
as, I could, resolving to speak with them if pos-
sible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I
should hot be able to come in their way, but
that they would be gone by, before I could make
any signal to them; but after I had crowded my
iftinost, and began to despair, they, it seems,
«aw, by the help of their perspective-glasses,,
that it was some European boat, which they
supposed must belong to some ship that was
lost; so they shortened sail and lay by fur
me, and in about three hours' time I came up with
them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and
in Spanish, and in French, but I understood
none of those languages, but at last, a Scots
sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I
answered him, and told him I was an English'-
man, and that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors of Sallee: then they bid
me come on board, and very kindly took me in,
and a.11 my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any on£
will believe, that I was delivered from such a mi~
serable and almost hopeless condition. I immedi-
ately offered all I had to tie captain of the ship,
ns a return fur my deliverance; but he generous-
ly told me, he would take nothing from me, but
that all I had should be delivered safe to me when
I came to the Brasils. "For," says he, " I have
saved your life on no other terms, than as I would
be glad to be saved myself; and it may one time
or other be my lot to be taken up iifthe same con-
dition: besides," observed he, " when I carry yotf
to the Brasils, so far from your own country, if
I should take from you what little you have, yort
.vill be starved there, and then-1 only take away
c
that life I have given. No," said he, " Senhof
Inglese, (Mr. Englishman,) I will carry you thf-
tbcr in charity; an£l those things you have will
lielp you to buy subsistence there, and your pas-
sage home again.
As he wus charitable in this proposal, so was
he just in the performance to a tittle; for he or-
dered that none of the seamen should offer to
touch any thing I had; he took every thing into
his own possession, and gave me back an exact
inventory of them, that I might have them again
when we came'io land, even so much as my three
earthen jars.
As to my boat, he saw it was a very good one,
and told me he would buy it from me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I
told him he had been so generoXis to me in every-
thing, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which
lie told meJie would give me a note of hand to
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at the Bra-
sils; and when it came there, if any one offered
to give more, he would make it up; he offered
me also sixty pieces of eight for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was unwil-
„ ling to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he
owned it to be just, and offered me this medinm,
that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go
to him, I let the captain have him. ,
We had :i very good voyage to the Brasils, and
arrived in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All
Saints bay, in twenty-two days after. Arid now
I was once more delivered from the most misera-
ble of all conditions of life; and what to do next
with myself I had still to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me,
I can never enough remember: he would take
nothing from me for my passage, gave me twenty
ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the
lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
every thing I hatl to be punctually delivered to
me, and what I was willing to seil, he bought.
In hhort, I made about two hundred and rwenty
pieces of money of all my cargo, and with this
stock I went on shore in the Brasils.
The captain recommended me to the house of
a goad Uonestt man like himself, who had a,u i*-
grnio, as they call it, that is, a plantation and a
sugar-house. I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted myself with the manner of their plant-
ing and making of sugar; and seeing how the
planters lived, and that they grew rich, I resolved,
if I could get a license to settle there, I would
turn planter among them; intending, in the mean-
time, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. For
this purpose I got a letter of naturalization,
purchasing as much land that was uncultivated,
as my money would reach; and formed a plan of
my plantation and settlement, such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to re-
ceive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon,
but born of English parents, whose name was
Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was:
I call him neighbour, because his plantation lay
jiext to mine; and we went on very sociable to-
gether: my stock was but low as well as his; and
we rather planted for food, than any thing else
for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and our land to come into order: so that
the third year we planted some tobacco, and
marie each of us a large piece of ground ready
for planting canes in the year to come; but we
both wanted help; and now I found, more than
before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
Bnt, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder: I had no remedy
but to go on. I had got into an employment
quite remote to my gcuins, and directly contrary
to the life I delighted in, and for which 1 forsook.
my father's house, and broke through all his good
advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper, degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before, and which, if I re-
solved to go on with, I might as veil have stayed
at home, and never have fatigued myself in the
world as I had done. I used often to say to my-
self,—I could have done this as well in England
among my friends, as to have gone five thousand
miles off to do it among strangers ;snd savages
in a wilderness, and at such a distance, as never
to hear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condi-
tion with tbe utmost regret. J had nobody to
converse with but now and then this neighbour;
no work to.be d.pu,c but by the labour of my aw a
c 3
bands; and I used to say, I lived just like a
taan cast away upon some desolate island, that
had nobody there but himself. But iiow just has
it been, and how shouid all men reflect, that»
when they compare their present coudition with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them
to make the exchange, and be convinced of iheir
former felicity by their experience. I say, how
just has it been, that the truly solitary life I re-
flected on in an island, of mere desolation, should
be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared
it with the life which I then led, in which, had I
continued, I had in all probability been exceed-
ingly prosperous and rich!
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying en the plantation, before my kind friend
the captain of the slsip, that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there in providing her
loading, and preparing for her voyage, near thre«
mouths/; when telhng him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: "Senhor Inglese," said he,
for so he always called me, " if you will give me
letters and a procuration here in form, with or-
ders to the person who has your money in Lon-
don, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such
persons as I shsU direct, and in such goods as
are propei- for this country, I will bring you th^
produce of them, (God willing) on my return;
tmt since human affairs arc all subject tochnnges
and disasters, I would have yoa give orders but
for one hundred pounds sterling, which you say
is.half your stock, and let the hazard be run for
the first; so that if that come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry,
you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply."
This was wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best course I could take; so I accordingly
prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I
liad left my money, and u procuration to the
Portuguese capiain as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full ac-
f ount of all my adventures, my slavery, escape,
and how I had met with the Portuguese captain
fit sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and in
what condition I was now in, with all other ne-
cessary directions for my supply; and when, this
honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means,
by some of the English merchants there to scud
over uot the order only, but a full account of iny
story to a merchant in London, who represented
it effectually to her; wherenpon, she not only
delivered the money, but out of her own pocket
sent the Portugal captain a handsome present for
his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon,
and he brought them all safe to the Brasils;
among which, without my direction, (for I was
too young in my business to think of them) he
had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation,
and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made.; and my good steward the captain had laid
out the money which my friend had sent him as
a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant under bond for six years service;
and would not hear of any consideration, except
a little tobacco, which I would have him accept,
being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all
English manufactnres, as cloth, stuffs, baize, and
things particularly valuable and desimble in the
country, I found: means to sell them to a very
§reat advantage; so that I may say I lad more
tiian four times the value of my first cargo, and
was now i«finitely beyond my poor neighbour, I
moan in the advancement of my plantation; for
the first tiling I did, I bought me a negvoe slave,
and an European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from
Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made
the very means of our greatest adversity, so was .
H with me. I went on the next year with great
success in my plantation; I raised fifty great
rolls of tobacco on my own ground more than I
had disposed of for necessaries among my neigh-
bours; and these fifty rolls being of above one
hundred pounds weight, we well cured and laid
by again the return of the fleet from Lisbon*
And HOW, increasing in business and wealth, my
head began to be full of projects and undertak-
ings beyond my reach; such as are indeed often
the ruin of the best heads in business.
Having now lived almost four years in the
Brasils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very
well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance
and friendship auunig my fellow planter*, as well
as among the merchants of St. Salvadore, which
was our port; and that in my discourse among
them, I had frequently given them an account of
my two voyages tp the coast of Guinea, the man-
ner of trading with the negroes there, and how
easy it >vas to purchase upon the coast for trifles,
(such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets,
bits of glass, and the like) not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c. but negroes,
for the service of the Brasils, in great numbers.
The planters always listened very attentively
to my conversation on this subject; but espe-
cially to that part « hich related to the buying of
negroes, which was a trade at that time not far
entered into; but as far as it was, had been car-
ried on by the permission of the kings of Spain
and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock;
so that few negroes were bought, and those were
excessively dear.
Being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to we
the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had conversed
with them about the last night; and they came
fo make a proposal to me: and after enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me that they had a
mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they
Lad all plantations as well as I, and were strait-
ened for nothing so much as servants; that, as
they could not publicly sell the negroes when
they came home, so' they desired to make but
otre voyage, to bring the ri'egroes on shore pri-
vately, and divide them among their own plan-
tation's; wishing that I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me',
that 1 should have my equal share of the ne-
groes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed;,
had it been made to any one who had not had a
settlement and plantation of his owrt ta look
after, whfch was in a fair waV of coming to be
very considerable, and with a good stock upon
it: but for me, that -was thus established, and
had nothing' to do but go on? as I had begun for
three or four years more, and to have sent for
the other 1001. from England, and who in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth 30001. or 40001. and
tkat increasing too—for me to think <rf sach *
voyage, was the most preposterous thing that
*ver man in such a situation could be guilty of.
But I, that was bora to be my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer i!. m I could re-
strain my first rambling designs, when my father's
good counsel was lost upen me. In a word, I
iold theni I would go with all my, heart, if. they
would undertake to look after luy plantation iu
my absence, and would dispose of it to suck
as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they
all engaged to do, aud entered into writings or
covenants to do so; t!ud I made a formal will,
disposing of my plantation and effects in ease of
my death, making the captain of the ship that
had saved my iiti?, as before, my universal heir;
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will: one half of the pro-
duce being to himself, and the othcr to be ship-
ped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to pres«m
nry effects and keep, up my plantation. Had I
used half as much prudence to look into my
own interest, and form a Correct judgment of
%\ hat I ought to have done and ought not to have
done, I had certainly aever gone away from SQ
prosperous an undertaking; leaving all the prob-
able views «f thriving circumstances, and ventur-
ing upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its
common hazards, to say nothing of the reason
which I had to expect, particular misfortunes fo
befal myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictales of my fancy rather than my reason; and
accordingly, the ship being tilted out, and the
cargo finished, and all things done as by agree-
ment with my partners in the voyage, I went OD
board in an evil hour again, September 1, 1059,
being the same day eight years that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act
the rebel to their authority, and the fowl to my
own interest.
We had 'been at sea about a fortnight when a
violent hurricane, or tornado, arose, and drove
us «luitc out of our knowledge. For twelve days
we beat about, at the mercy of the winds and
rvaves, expecting to be swallowed up at every
instant. In this distress, the wind still blow ing
very;hard, one of our men, early in the morning,
cried out, "Laud!" And scarcely had we tiiae
to run up on deck to look out, in hopes of .see-
ing whereabouts jn t|ie world.,we were, befos*
D
the ship struck upon a bank of sand; and id a
moment the sea broke over us with such vio-
lence, that we seemed to have but little chance
of escaping with our lives.
Only those persons who have been in the same
dreadful circumstances can imagine the grief and
terror with which we looked on one another, ig-
norant whether we were driven upon an unin-
habited island, or on a coast peopled by sa-
vages; expecting also that the ship would fall
to pieces every moment, by the violence with
which she beat upon the sand.
Our tnate' was the only p'erson on board who
had presence of mind enough to think of throw*
ing the boat over the ship's side, and with great
difficulty we all (eleven of us) got into it, and
strove with our utmost might to row to land;
but aftef we had rowed about a league and a
half from the ship,, a raging wave came rolling;
mountain-like, towards us: we foresaw the event
— the wave overset the boat, and we were all:
swallowed up in a moment.
I saw no more of my unfortunate companions;
for the wave that threw us all into the sea, car*-
ried me a vast way towards the shore, and, hay-
ing spent itself, went back, and left me upon tbs
1$«4 A' Tat>ar-t S/'C-
beach almost dry. I got upon my feet, and en-
deavoured to reach the mainland; 'but another
enormous wave presently overtook me, and bu-
ried me at otlce twenty or thirty feet deep in its
own body, carrying me with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore; while I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim forward with,
all my might. I was ready to burst with holtl-
.ing my breath, when I felt my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly,
gave me breath and new courage.
I stood still a few moments to recover breath,
H'hen another wave, having hurried me along as
before, landed me, or rather dashed me against
a piece of a rock; and that with such force, as
* left me senseless, ai)d indeed helpless, as to 'my
own deliverance; for hud the wave returned
again immediately, I must have btcu suffocated
in the water: but I recovered a little before the
returi} of the wave, and held fast by a, part of
the rock till the waves ablated, and then took
another run, which brought me so near the shore,
that the next wave, though it went over me, ye$
tjid qot so swallow me up .as to carry me away;
•n '«> .
and the next run I took, I got to (he mainland,
where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the
elifts of the shore, and s»t down upon the grass,
•&ee.,ffom danger, and quite out of the reach of
'thfc water.
I was now lantlad and safe on shore, and be-
gan to look up,and thank God that my life was
saved :in a ease which, some minutes before, af-
forded sear,ce any room to hope. I believe it is
impossible to express what the ecstacies and tran-
sports of the soul are when it is thus saved, as I
tilHty say, out of tl«2 very grave:—
"For siuUlen juys, like griefs, confound it first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my
hands, and my whole being, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thou-^
sand gestures and motions which 1 cannot de-
scribe, reflecting upon all my companions that
• were drowned, and that there should not be one
•soul saved but myself; for, as to them, I never
• saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, ex-
cept three of their hats, one cap, and two' shoes
• that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes toward the stranded vessel, and
eould hardly sec it,-it lay so far <ifi; and n«uiu
| cxclaime i, how was it possible I could, get
ou shore!
After I ha i solaced my mind with the com.-
fortable part of my condition, I began to look
round me, to see what kind of a plate I was in,
and what was next to be done; when I soon
found my comforts abate, and that I had had but
a dreadful deliverance. I was wet; had no
clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any
prospecti before me, but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts: and
that which was particularly afflicting to me was,
that 1 had no weapon either to hunt itjid kill any
creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself
against any other creatures that might desire to
kill me for theirs. I had nothing about me but
a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a
box; this was all my provision; and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, so that for a
while 1 ran about like a madman. Night com-
ing upon me, I began, with a ,heavy heart, to
consider what would be nt^Jot if there were any
ravenous beasts in the island, knowing that at
night they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at
D 3
that time was, to get up into a thick ImslrV tr^p,
like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, arid
tvhere I resolved to sit all night, and consider
the next day what death I should die; for as
yet I saw no prospect of life, I walked about
a furlong from the sftbre, to see, Jf'I could find,
pome fresh water to drink, TVhich I did to my
great joy; and having drauk and put a HttUi
tobacco in my moui.h to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and, getting up into it, endeavoured
to place myself so, as that, if I should sleep,
I might not fall. I cht a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defence; and having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept
as comfortably as, I believe, few could have
done in my condition, and found myself the
most refreshed with it, tiiat, I think, I ever was
un such an occasion,
I did iiot a<vake till it was broad day, the
weather clear, and the storm abated, so that the
sea did not rage as before; but that which sur-
prised me most was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night from the sand where she lay, by the
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as
frfr as the rock which I first mentioned, where
I bad been-so bruised by being dashed, against
it: this was within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up-
right, I wished myself on "board, that, at least,
I might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartident in the
tree, 1 looked about me again, and the first thing
I found was the boat, which lay as the wind and
sea had tossed her upon the land, about two
miles on my right'baud,' 1 walked as far as I
could upon the shore to get to her; but found
a tieck, or inlet, of water between me and the
boat, which was about half a mile broad; «o
I canie back, for the present, being more intent
upon gel ting at the ship, where I hoped to fiud
something' for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm,
and the tide ebbed so far out, that I could como
within a quarter of a mile of the ship: so I pull-
ed off my clothes, for the .weather was extremely
hot, and took the water; but when I carte to the
ship, my difficulty was slill greater to know how
to get on board, for as she lay aground and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my
reach to lay hold of: I swam round her twice,
and the second time I spied a small piece of
-rope, winch I wondered I did. not see at first,
hanging down by the fore-chains, so low, that with
little difficulty I got hold of it, and liy the help
of lhat rope got up into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bilged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold, but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand,
or rather earth, that her stern was lifted upon
the bank, and her head low almost to the wa-
ter; by this means all her quarter was free,
and all that part was dry; for you may be
sure my first work was to search and to see
what was spoiled and what was free; and
first I found that all the ship's provisions were
dry, and untouched by the water; and being
very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit and eat
it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great c.ibin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed need enough of to give me
spirits for what was before me. An I now I
wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be very ne-
cessary to me. ':i ' j .;
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had; and this extremity Boused my
application. We had several spare yawls, and
two or three large spafs of wood, ami a spare
top-mast or two' in the ship; I flung as many of
them overboard as I could inanage of their
4weijr1it., tying every one with a rope, that iiiey
might not drift awav; When this was rloue I went
down the ship's side, and pufling them to me, I
tied foqr of them fast together at both ends as
well as I could, in the fonn of a 1-aft; and lay-
mgtwo orthree pieces of plank upon tk.'m cixut*-
ivays, I found I could walk upon it very well,
liut that it was iot able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too ligfit; so I went to work,
•and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-
past into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, xvith a gtt-at deal of labour aiid pains; but
the hope to furnish myself with ttecessuries en-
conraged me to go beyond what I should have
been able to have done upon another occasion.
'.' My raft iris now strong enough to bear any
reasonable Tveilrht; my next care was what t«
•load it yith, and how to preserve what J laid
upon it from the surf of the sea. I first laid all
the planks or board-* upon it that I could get,
and having considered ivell what I most, warned,
I'got three of the seamen's chests, whith J hf*d
broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled
With provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Putch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which
we lived much upon, and a little remainder of
European corn, which had been laid by for some
fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the
fowls were killed; there had bern some barley
and wheat together, but, to my great disappoint-
ment, I found that the rats had eaten and spoiled
it all. As for liquors, 1 found several cases of
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
sonic cordial waters, and in ajl about five or six
gallons of arrack; these I stowed by themselves,
there being no need to put them in the chest, nor
any,room for them. While I was doing {his, I
found the tide began to flow, and I had the mor-
tification tp sje my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim-
ming away. Tin's put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no
more than I wanted for present use, for I was
inore intent upon other things, such as, tools to
work with pn shore: and after |qng searching
I found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed,
a very useful prize tv me, and muclt more v^,
luable than a ship-load of gold would have been
at that time; I got it down to my raft without
losing time to look into it, for I knew in general
what it contained.
> My next care was for some ammunition and
ftrmsi There were two fowling pieces in the
great cabin, and t\vo pistols; these I secured
first with some powder horns, and a small bag
fcf shot; and two rusty swords: with much search
I found two barrels of pun-powder dry and good,
and a third which had taken water; those two I
got to my raft with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to con*
sider how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar( nor rudder; and the least gust
of wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth calm
sea; the-tide rising and setting into the shore;
and what little wind there was blew me towards
the land. Having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and, besides the tools
which were in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a
.hammer; and with this cafgo I put to sea. For
a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well,
only that I found it drive a little distant from
the place where I had lauded before; by which
\
I perceived that there'wds stone indtjgft of
frater, and consequently I hop**! to find
«reek or rivet' there, wjftcJi I might make use oi'
as a port to get to land with my cargov .,-
: It proved to be a ereek; and in endeavouring'
to keep in the m,jdtUe of the stream, t had like,
to have suffered a; second shipwreck, which, had
it been so, would, I think verily, Imve b*oken my
heart; fovr knowii^ notluie; of the e»»s>t, my
raft raw aground at one eiul upon a shoal, amt
my cargo was sliding off towards that end that
was still afloat, I Set my back «gain»t the, chests,
t» keep them in their plates, Imt I wmld not
£hrust orl the raft with all my strength, neither
durst I stir from- the posture I .was in;, but hold-
ing np the chest* with all my might, stood in that
manner near half an hour, hi which tilac.the tjde
flowing, my raft floated again; ami driving up-
higher I found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both skies,
I observed a little cove on the right shore, of
the creek, to which with great pain and difficulty
1 guided my raft, for I wa? not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping Ui tinle to
see some ship at sea, and, therefore resolved to
place myself as near the coast as I could, '|
ing got safe into the cove at high tide,, though
my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust her
upon a flat piece of ground, and there moored
her by sticking my two broken oars into the
ground; one on one side near the end, and one ,
on the other side near the other end; and thijs
I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft
and all my cargo safe on shore,
My next work was to view the country, and
seek a proper place for my habitation, and where
to stow my goods, to secure them from whatever
might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not,
whether on a continent or on an island; Whe-
ther inhabited or not inhabited; whether in
danger pf wild beasts or not. There was. a hill
not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and seemed ,to over-top some
. other hills which lay as in a ridge from it north-
ward. I took qut one, of the fowling pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; a\id
thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the
top of that hill, where, after I had with great la-
bour and difficulty reached the top, I saw, to my
great affliction, that I was in aa island environed
every way with the sea, no laud to be seen, ex-
cept some rocks which Jay a great way off, and
K
two small islands less than this I was cast on,
which lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island which I was in was
barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe, un-
inhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, how-
ever, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but knew not their kinds; neither when I killed
them, could I tell what was fit for food, and
what not. At my coming back, I shot at a grea£
bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side
of a great wood: I believe it was the first gun
that had been fired there since the creation of
the world. I had no sooner fired, but from all
parts of the wood there arose an innumerable
number of fowls of many sorts, making a con-
fused screaming and crying, every one accord-
ing to his usual note; but not one of any kind
that I knew: as for the creature that I killed, I'
took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and
beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws
more than common; and its flesh \tas carrion
and good for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I carue back to
my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo orr.
shore, which took me up the rest of that day:
what to do with myself at night I knew not, ,non
indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie.
down on the ground, not knowing bnt somc
wild beast might devour me, though I afterward^
found there Was really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I L>«rricadoed
myself round with chests and boards that I had
brought on shore, and made a kind of an hut for
my shelter, yet I dreaded to lie down, fearing
the attack of wild beasts; none however came
.near me, and I passed the night in silence and in
safety.
On the following day I again swam to the ship,
for I knew that the first storm that came would
dash her to pieces, and I resolved to get every
thing on shore that would be useful to me before
I attempted to fix my habitation.
I made a second raft, which I loaded with a
good hammock and plenty of bedding, all the
men's clothes I could find, with sails and canvas,
and as much of the rigging, ropes, and twine, as
I could get; bags of nails, a screw-jack, two
dozen of hatchets, and that most useful thing a
grind-stone.
I was under some apprehensions during my
absence from the land, that my provisions might
E 2
be devoured ou shore ; but when I came I found
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature
like u wild-cat upon one of the chests, which
when I came towards it, ran away to a little dis-
tance, and then stood still; she sat very com-
posedly, and looked full in my face, as it'she had
a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun at her, but as she did not understand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned, nor did she offer
to stir; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit,
though I was not very free of it, for my store was
not great. However, I spared her a small piece,
aud she went to it, smelled at it, and eat it, and
looked (as if pleased) for more; but I thanked
her, aiid could spare no more; so she marched
off.
- i Having got my second cargo on shore, I went
to work to make a tent, with a sail and some
poles which I cut for that purpose; into this
tent I brought every thing that 1 knew would
spoil, either with rain or the sun. Aud I piled all
the empty casks and chests in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it against any attacks of man or
beast. I then blocked up the door of my tent
with some boards, and spreading one of the beds
Nvhich I had brought on shore, I lay down with
my gun and pistols close beside me, and slept
very soundly all night.
After several other voyages to the ship, I had
the good fortune to find a large hogshead of bis- .
cuif, another of rum, a box of sugar, and a bar-
rel of fine flour. There were more provisions
on board, but they were all spoiled by the salt
water. I also on the same day discovered a
locker, with three razors, a large pair of scissars,
and a dozen knives and forks in it, and thirty-
six pounds in money. The money was now a
mere useless drtig, but hoping it might hereafter
serve me, I wrapped it in canvas and took it
with me.
I had now been thirteen days on shore, and
had been eleven times on board the ship. In
the last visit I loaded my raft too heavily, and it
overset. By this accident I lost a quantity of
iron that would have been very useful to me,
but th« planks and cables drifted on shore with
ihe tide.
Had the fine weather continued, I believe I
should have brought away the whole ship piece-
meal, but on the night of my last visit the wind
blew very bard all night, and when I left my hut
E 3
in the morning the ship was no more to be seen'.
I was greatly affected by this event: it seemed
to me that I had lost my last friend, and was now
more deserted and alone than I had been before.
I sat down on the ground to gaze on the rock
where the ship had been, and tears ran down rtiy
cheeks, till my kind dog came and fawned upon
me. His caresses banished my melancholy
thoughts, and I rose up resolved to make the
.best of my condition; and to this end, I began
to consider what sort of a dwelling I should
construct, that would best secure me from the
attacks of savages, or wild beasts, if any sncb
should visit the island. i
In determining on a situation I consulted
several things which I found would be proper
for rne; first, health and fresh-water; secondly,
shelter from the heat of tin* sun; thirdly, secu-
lity from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; fourthly, a view of the sea, that, if a
ship came in sight, I might not lose the chance
of deliverance :— lay only hope and anxious ex-
pectation.
I fixed at length upon a small plain that sloped
towards the sea shore, and lay at the foot of a
iiijb perpendicular rock, which was so steep that
nothing could come down to assault me from
above. I made a half circle on the plain, round 3
hollow part of the rock, into which I drove rows
of slakes, about five feet high, and standing about
six inches from each other. I then piled rows
of pieces of cable close to the stakes, and within
them I drove other stakes leaning against them
about,two feet and a half high; and this fence,
which cost me much time, and excessive labour,
was so strong that nothing could break through
it. I made no door-way, but used, for enter-
ing my habitation, a short ladder, which, when
.1 was on the top of my wall, I lifted over after
me, so that I tbought myself completely fenced
in from all the world.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite per-
severance and difficulty, I carried all my riches,
provisions, ammunition, and stores. I next made
it large tent within my wall, and a smaller one
within that, aud covered the whole with a tar-
paulin to secure them from the heavy rains;
and in the small tent I swung my hammock,
which had belonged to the mate of the ship,
and there lay very comfortably. . .
My next operation was to work my way into
-Ihe rock; and I soon made a cave behind my
tent, which served as a kitchen and cellar t*i
my house.
It cost me much labour before all these thing?
were brought to perfection. A storm of rain
falling at this time from a thick dark cloud,
accompanied with a sudden flush of lightning,
and after that a great clap of thunder, a thought
darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself—' Oh, my powder!' My very heart sunk
within me, when I reflected that at one blast all
my powder might be destroyed; on which not
only my defence but the providing my food, as I
thought entirely depended. I was not anxious
about my own danger; though, had the powder
took fire, I had never known who had hurt me.
Such an impression did this make upon me,
that, after the storm was over, I laid aside all
my works; my building and fortifying, and ap-
plied myself to make bags and boxes to separate
my powder, in hopes that, whatever might hap-
pen, it might not all take fire at once; and to
keep it so apart, that it should not be possible.
to make one part fire another. I fmished this
work in about a fortnight: and I think my
powder, which was in all about a hundred and
forty pounds weight, was (divided in not less thatt
;\ hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from
that, so I placed it in' my new cave, which I
called my kitcheii; and the rest I hid up and
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where
I laid it.
In the interval of time,, while all this was do-
ing, I went out once every day with my gun in
•search of food. 1 soon found that there were
plenty of goats in the island; but they were so
subtle and swift of foot, that I could not come
near them. After many fruitless attempts, I
observed, that if they were on the rocks and
I in the valley, they fled with far more preci-
pitation than when I descended from the rocks
when they were feeding in the valley. I there-
fore concluded that the position of their eyes,
was such, that they could not readily see objects
above them. I found this opinion to be verified
when, having climbed the rocks immediately
above where they were feeding, I had a fan-
mark, and shot a she-goat which was •giving
suck to a little kid beside her.
I was very much grieved to have shot the old
one; and when I took her up to carry her home',
the poor little kid followed me, bleating for its
dam. I carried the kid over my enclosure, and
offered it food, intending to have bred it up tame;
but the poor thing ti'buld not eat, and after two
days it diod.
The goat served me' as meat a long time; for I
cat very sparingly, and saved my provisions, espe-
cially my bread, as much as I possibly could.
I must now give some little account of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which, it may
well be supposed, were not few. I had a dismal
prospect of my condition; for, as I was not,cast
away upon that island without bting driven by a
violent storm quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage, some hundreds of leagues out of
the ordinary course of the trade of mankind,
I' had great reason to consider it as a deter-
mination of Heaven, that in this desolate place,
and in this desolate manner, I should end my
life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself;
why Providence should thus completely nun his
creatures, and render them so absolutely miie*- •.
able, so without help abandoned, so entirely de-
pressed, that it would hajrdly be ration?! to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me
to check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and
particularly one day walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon
the subject of my present condition, when rea-
son, as it were, expostulated with me in this
way: 'Well,you are in a desolate condition, it is
true; but, pray, remember, where are the rest of
you? Did not you come eleven of you into the
boat? Where are the ten? Why were not they
saved, and you lost? Why were you singled
out? Is it better to be here or there!" And
then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in themf and
with what attended aggravations they might
have.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I
was furnished for my subsistence, and what
would have been my case if it had not happened,
that the ship floated from the place where she
first struck, and was driven so near to the shore,
that I had time to get all these things out of her.
What would have been my ease, if I bad been.
obliged to live ia the condition in which I at first
came on shore, without the necessaries of life,
or any means to procure them? Particularly,
said I,' aloud, what could I have done without
a gun; without ammunition: without any tools
to work with; without clothes, bedding, a tent,
or any manner of covering? And that now I
had all these in a sufficient quantity, and was in
a fair way to provide myself in such a manner
as to live without uiy gun, when my ammunition
was spent.
And now, being to enter into a melancholy
relation of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps,
as was never heard of in the world before, I
shall taUe it from its beginning, and continue it
in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of
September when I first set foot upon this horrid
island; when the sun, being to us, in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head; for I
reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the
latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the
line. ,
After I had been there about ten or twelve
days, it came into my thoughts that I should
lose my reckoning of time for want of books and
pen and ink> and. should even forget the sabbatk
days from the working days; but to prevent this,
I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capi-
tal letters; and making it into a great cross, I
set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz.
I came on shore here mi the 30fA of September,
1659. Upon the sides of this square post, I cut
every day a notch with my knife, and every se-
venth notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place \\e are to observe, that among
the many things which I brought out of the ship
in the several voyages which I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less use-
ful to me, which I omitted setting down before;
as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and
carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspec-
tives, charts, and books of navigation; all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them
or not: also I found three very good bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England,
tfnd which I had packed up among my things;
some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or thrce popish prayer-books, and several
other books, all which 1 carefully secured. And
I must not forget that we h;td in the ship a dog
and two cats, of whose eminent history I may
have occasion to say something in its place; for
I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship himself, and
swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years. I wanted nothing
that he could do for me, nor any company that
he could make up to me: I only wished to have
him talk to me, but that was impossible.
I now found 1 wanted many things, notwith-
standing all that I had amassed together; and of
these, that of ink was one; as also a spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pens, and thread. As for linen, I soon
learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I undertook
go on heavily, and it was near a whole year before
I Lad entirely fmished my pale, or surrounded my
hubitatiou. The piles, or stakes, which were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more
by far in bringing hou;e; so that I spent some-
times two days in cutting and bringing home one
of those posts, and a third day in drivmg it into
the ground: driving these posts, 6r piles, was a
very laborious and tedious work indeed.
But what need had I to be concerned with the
tcdiousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I
had time enough to do it in; nor had I any other
employment if that had been over, at least, that
I could foresee; except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did more or less every
day.
I now began 1o consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstances which I was reduced to:
and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing,
not so much to leave them to any that were to
come after me, (for I 'was' likely to have but few
heirs) but to relieve my thoughts from dailyporing
upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as luy
reason began now to master my despondency, and
to set the good against the evil, that I might have
something to distinguish my case from worse; I
stated very impartially, like debtor and cTeditor,
(the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I
suffered) thus :—
v
F2
EVIL.
I am cast upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out and se-
parated, as it were, from
all the world, to be miser-
able.
. I am divided from man-
kind: a solitary one, ba-
nished from all human so-
ciety.
I have no clothes to
cover me.
I am without any de-
fence, or means to resist
auy violence •i man or
beast.
I have no soul to speak
to or to relieve »e.
GOOD.
15ut I am alivet and ncrt
drowned, as all my ship's
company were.,
But lam singled out too
from all the ship's crew to
be spared from death; and
JIE that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
But I am not starved
and perishing on a barre^t
place, affording no suste-
nance.
But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.
But I am cast on an is-
land where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there!
But God wonderfully sent
the ship in near enough to
the short, I have gotten out
so many necessary things at
will enable me to supply
myself even as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted tes-
timony that there was scarcely any condition in
the world so miserable, but there was something
negative, or something positive, to be thankful
for in it; and let this stand as a direction, from
the experience of the most miserable of all con-
el it ions in this world, that we may always find in
'it something to comfort ourselves from, and to
set in the description of good and evil on the cre-
dit side of the account.
Having notv brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, I came by imperceptible degrees
into that state of contentment and resignation,
that my labour was no longer a cheerless toil; but
! looked with pleasure on the many comforts and
conveniences which my labour produced for me.
Having finished my dwelling, I applied myself
to make a table aud chair, the want of which was
a daily inconvenience to me. I was particularly
awkward when I first begau this work, and a skil-
ful carpenter would have laoshed to see the
clumsy manner in which I handled my saw, adze,
and hatchet; yef, by application and contrivance,
I found at last that I overcame all my difficulties,
and made not only my chair and table, but
shelves, and many other conveniences, which
P3
made my tent not only more commodious, but
gave it that look of order, neatness, and arrange-
ment, which is at all times so pleasing to the eye,
whether in a cave on a desert island, or in a
splendid palace.
My cave seemed now like a general magazine
of all useful things ready to the hand; and I
rejoiced heartily to find my stock of necessary
stores even larger than I had at first supposed
1hcm to be.
My table and chair were a great solace to me;
and every day, as long as my ink lasted, I kept a
journal of my occupations, my observations, and
of every thing that befel me; of which journal
I shall give a copy, though in it will be told all
these particulars over again.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Ro-
binsou Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dread-
'ful storm in the offing, came on shore on this
dismal, unfortunate island, which I call T/ie
Island of Despair; all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost
dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting
myself at the dismal circumstances I was brought
to, viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, wear
pou, nor place to fly to; and, in despair of any
relief, saw nothing but death before me; either
that I should be devoured by w ild beasts, mur-
dered by savages, or starved to death for want
of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree,, for fear of wild creatures; but slept soimtlly,
though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floaled with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the
island. This was some comfort, as I hoped if
the wind abated I might get on board, and get
&ome food and necessaries out of her for my re-
lief, which I did. I went upon the sand as near
to the ship as I could, and then swam on board.
This day also it continued raining, though with
no wind at all.
From the 1st to the 14th was entirely spent in
making several voyages to get all I could out of the
ship, which I brought en shore every tide, upon
.rafts. Much rain also in these days, though wiih
some intervals of fair weather: but it seems this
\vas the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft and all the goods
I had got upon it; but, being in shoal water, and
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many
of them when the title was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with?
some gusts of wind; during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods'
which I had saved, that the rain might net spoil
them. .
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation;
greatly concerned to secure myself fro;n any at-
tack in the night, cither from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I fixed upon a proper place under
a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my en-
campment, which I resolved to strengthen with a
work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles,
lined within with cable, and without with turf.
From the 20th to the 30th I worked very hard
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation
though some part of the time it rained exceed-
ingly hard.
The 31st in the morning I went out into the
island with my gun' to see for some food, and
discover the country, when I killed a shergoar,
and her kid followed me home, which afterward?
died, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock,
and lay there for the first night, making it as
large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing'
my hammock upon. The next day I set up all
my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber
which made my raft, and with them formed a
fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went 'out with my gun, and killed'
two fowls, like ducks, which were very good.
In the afternoon; went to work to make my
table. The next morning I began to order my
times of work, of going out with my gun, time
of sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every
morning I walked out with my gun for two or
three hours, if it did not rain; then employed
myself to work till about ten; then eat what
I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lav
down to sleep, the weather being excessively
hot; and then in the evening to work again.
The working part of this day and the next were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was
yet but a very sorry workman, though time aitd ne'
cessity made me a complete 'natural mechanic soon
after, as I believe they would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my pun
and my dog, ;:ud killed a wild cut; her skin
pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing:
every creature I killed I took off their skins
and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-
shore, I saw many sorts of fowls, whose species
I did not know; but was surprised and almost
frighted with two or three seals, which, while I
was gazing at, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped from me for that
time.
Nov. C. After my morning walk, I went to
work with my table again and finished it, though
not to my liking; nor was it long before I learn-
ed to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair wea-
ther The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and a part of the
12th (for the llth was Sunday) I took wholly up
to make hie a chair, and with much ado brought
it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me:
and even in the making, I pulled it to pieces se-
veral times.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
and exceedingly cooled the earth; but it was
accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my
powder.
As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate
toy stock of powder into as many little parcels
as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent
in. making little square chests of boxes, whicll
might hold about a pound, or two pounds, at,
most, of powder; and so putting the powder in,
I stowed it in places as secure and remote from
*ne another as possible. On one of Jhcse three
days I killed a large bird that was good to eat,
but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind
my tent into the rock, to make room for my
further conveniences. Three things I wanted
exceedingly for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a
shovel, and a wheel-barrow, or basket; so I
desisted from my work and began to consider
how to supply these wants, and make me some
tools. As for a pick-axe, I made use of the iron
crows, which were proper enough, though heavy:
but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this
was. so absolutely necessary, that indeeti I cou!4
do nothing effectually without it; but what kind
of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of that wood, or one like
it, which in the Brasils they call the iron-tree,
for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home too, with difficulty
enough, for it was very heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, made me
a long while employed upon this machine; for
I worked it effectually by little and little into
the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that the broad
part having no iron shod upon it at the bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the use which I had occasion to
put it to; but never was a shovel, J believe, made
after that fashion, or so long in making.
'I was still deficient of a basket, or wheel-bar-
row; a basket I could not make by any means,
having no such things as twigs that would bend,
to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
oat; and as to the wheel-barrow, I fancied I
could make all but the wheel, but that I had no
notion of, neither did I know how to go about
1 /
it; besides, I had no possible way to make the
iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel
to run in, so I gave it Wer; and for carrying
away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made me a thing like a hod which the labourers
carry mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making
of the shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and
the attempt which I made in vain to make a
wheel-barrow took me up no less than four days,
excepting my morning walk with my gun, which
I .seldom neglected; and very seldom failed to
bring home something to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood
still, because of my making these tools; when
they were finished I went on, and working every
day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent
eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening
my cave, that it might hold my goods commo-
diously.
During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate
toe as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a
dining-room, and a cellar: as for my lodging,,
I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the
wet season of the year, it rained so hard that I
G
could not keep myself dry, which causal me
afterwards to cover all my place within my pale
with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my
cave or vault finished, when on a sudden (it
seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side,
so much that in short it frighted me, and not
without reason too; for if I had been under it,
I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this
disaster I had a great deal of work to do over
again; for I had the loose earth to carry out,
and which was of more importance, I had the
ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no
more would, come down,
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it
accordingly, and got two shores or posts pitched
upright to the top, with two pieces of board^
across over each post; this I finished the next
day; and setting more posts up with boards,
in about a week more I harf the roof secured;
and the posts standing in rows, served me for
partitions to part oft' my house.
Dec. 17. from this day to the twentieth I
placed shelves; and knocked' up nails in the
posts to hang every tiling up that could be hung
up; and now I began to be iii some order within
doors.
Dec. 20: Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house and fixed
Up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to or-
der my victuals Upon, but boards began to be
very scarce with me; also I made' me another
table.
Dec. 24 and 25. Much rain; no stirring
6Ut.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
thart before, arid pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed
another so that I caught it, and led it home in
a string; when I had it home, I bound and
splintered up its leg, which was broken. N. B. 1
took such care of it that it lived, and the leg
grew we'll, and as strong as ever; by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and red upon the little
green before my door, and would not go away.
This was the first time that I entertained a
thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder an*
shot was all spent.
G 2
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats, and no
breezes'; so that there was no stirring abroad^
except in the evening for food. This time I
spent in putting all my things in order within
doors. *|
January 1; Very hot still; but I went abroad
early and late with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening going further
into the vallies, which lay towards the centre of
the island, I found there was plenty of goats,
though exceedingly shy, and hard to come at;
however, I resolved to try if I could not bring
my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day I went
out with my dog, and set him upon the goats;
but I was mistaken, for they all faced about
upon him; and he knew his danger too well,
for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence, or wall, which,
being still jealous of my being attacked by some-
body, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal. It
is sufficient to observe, that I was no less time,
than from the third of January to the four-
teenth of April, working, finishing, and per-
feeling this wall, though it was no more than
twenty-four yard* in length; being a half-
circle from one place in the rock to another
place about eight yards from it; the door of
the cave being in the centre behind it.
All this time I Worked very hard, the rains
hindering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
together; but I believed I should never be per-
fectly secure till this wall was finished. It is
scarcely credible what inexpressible labour
every thing was done with; especially the bring-
ing piles out of the woods and driving them into,
the ground, for I made them much bigger than
I needed to have done.
When this Avail was finished, and the outside
double fenced with a turf-wall raised up close
to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive any thing like a habitation-; and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter
upon a remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the
•woods for gam* every day when the rain per-
mitted me, and made frequent discoveries in
these walks of something or other to my ad-
vantage; particularly I found a kind of wild
03
pigeons, that built not, as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather, as house-pigeons, in the holes
of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did
so; but when they grew older they all flew
away, which perhaps was for want of feeding
them, for I had nothing to give them. How-
ever, I frequently found their nests, and got
their young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing of my household
affairs, I found myself in want of many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for
me to make. For instance, I could never make
a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or
two, but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many
weeks about it: I could neither put in the heads
or join the staves so true to one another as to
make them hold water, therefore I gave that
attempt over.
There was yet another material want unsup-
plied, namely, candles: I did at length find a
substitute for them. When I killed a goat I
saved the tallow, and put it into a little dish
made of clay and baked in the sun. I put a
wick of oakum into the tallow; and had a lamp
Which gave me light enough to read, write, or
Work by, though it did not yield so clear and
steady a flame as that of a candle.
It happened, \vhen I was arranging my stores
on the shelves, that I found a bag which had
once been filled with corn for the, fowls we had
on board the ship. There appeared to be only
a few dry husks remaining, which I shook out,
intending to fill the bag with gun-powder. , It
was a little before some great rains which fell,
that I emptied these husks by the side of the
rock; and about a month afterwards, when I. did
not so much as recollect what I had thrown
away there, I savr some green stalks shooting
out of the earth; and perfectly astonished was
I, in a little time, to see these shoots ripen into
ten or twelve ears of English barley.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto I had looked upon
the actions of this life, no otherways than only
as the events of blind chance and fortune; but
now the appearance of this barley, flourishing
in a barren soil, and my ignorance in not con-
ceiving how it could come there, made me con-
clude that miracles were, not yet ceased: nay,
I even thought that God had appointed it to
grow there without any seed, purely for my sus-
tenance in this miserable and desolate island.
And, indeed, such great effect had this upon me,
that it often made me melt into tears, through
a grateful sense of God's mercies ; and the greater
still was my thankfulness, when I perceived about
this little field of barley some rice-stalks alsu
wonderfully flourishing.
Thus pleased' in mind I concluded there must
be more corn in the island, and therefore made .
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks; but
not being able to find ;any, on a sudden it came
into my mind how I had shaken the husks of
corn out of the bag, and then my admiration
ceased, with my gratitude to the divine Being,
as thinking it was but natural, and not to Be
conceived a miracle; though, even the man-
ner of its preservation, might have made me
own it as a wonderful event of God!s kind pro-
vidence. :,
It was about the latter end of June when tin;
ears of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, expecting I one day should reap the .
fruits of my labour; yet four years were ex-
pired before I would allow myself to eat any
bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook
it up without baking.
But to return to my journal.
I worked excessively hard three or four
months to get my wall done; and the 14th of
April I closed it up, contriving to go into it,
not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went
up by it to the top, and then pulled it up after
me, and let it down on the inside. This was
a complete enclosure to me; for within I had
room enough, and nothing could come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my
wall.
But what do all human pains and industry
avail, if the blessing, of God do not crown our
labours? Or " who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm?"
The very next day .after this wall was finished
I had almost had all my labour overthrown at
once, and myself killed. The case was thus:
as I was busy in the inside of it, behind iny tent,
just in the entrance into my cave, on a sudden 1
found the earth came tumbling down from the
roof of my. cave, and from the edge of the hill
over my head, and two of the posts I bad set ul>
in the cave cracked in a most frightful mariner.
1 was heartily scared; but thought nothing of
what was really the caase, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some of
it had done before; and, for fear I should be
buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and,
not thinking myself safe there neither, I got over
my wall, for fear of the pieces of the hill, which
I expected might roil down upon me. I wftS
no sooner slept down upon the tirm ground than
I plainly felt it was a terrible earthquake, for
the ground I stood upon shook three times in
about .eight minutes, with three such shocks as
would have overturned the strongest building
that *could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I
never heard in all my life. I perceived also
that the very sea was put into violent motion
fey it; and I believe the shocks >vere stronger
under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having
never felt the like, or conversed with any one
had, that I was like one dead or stupified;
and the motion of the earth made my stomach
sick, like one that was tqssed at sea; but the
noise of the falling of the rock, roused me iron}'
the stupified condition I was in, and I thougat
of nothing then but the hill falling upon uly.
tent, and all my household goods, and buryii..,
all at once: and this sunk my very soul with. .
me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I fe'.-c .:
more for some time, I began to take courage;
and yet I had not heart enough to get over my
wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but
sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and
disconsolate, not knowing what to da. All this
while I had not the least serious rehgious
thought, nothing but the common " Lord have
mercy upou me!" and when it was over, that
%veni. away too.
^Vllile I sat thus, I found the air overcast,
and grown cloudy, as jf it would rain; and in
Jess than half ^n hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane: the sea was all on a sudden covered
over with foam and froth, the shore was covered
with the breach of the water, the trees were
torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm it
was. This held about three hours, and then
began to abate; and in two hours more it was
calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came
into my mind, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earth-
quake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought
my spirits began to revive, and the rain also
helping to persuade me, I went in, and sat down
in my tent; but the rain was so violent that my
tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and I
was forced to go into my cave, though very much
afriiul and uneasy for fear it should full on my head.
This, violent rain forced me to a new wort,
viz. to cut a hole ,through my new fortification
• hke a sink to Jet water go out, which would
else have drowned my cave. After I had been
in my cave some time, and found no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed ; and now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little
store, and took a.small sup of rum, which how-
I did then, and always very sparingly,
knowing I could have no more when that was
gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir
abroad; but my mind being more composed,
I began to think of what I had best do; con-
ceiving, that if the island was subject to these
earthquakes, there would be no living for mt in
a cave, but I must consider of building me some
little mi! in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall as I had done heic, and so
make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
but concluded, if I staid where I was, I should
certainly, one,time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my
tent from the place where it stood, which was
just under the hanging precipice of the hill, and
which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly
fall upon my tent. And I spent the two next
days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con-
triving where jmd how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made
me that I never slept in quiet; and yet the
apprehension of lying abroad without any fence
almost equal to it: but still when 1 looked
H
about, and saw how every tbini; was put in order,
how pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe
from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me, that it
would require a vast deal of time to do this,
and that I must be contented to run the venture
where I was, till I had formed a camp for my-
self, and had secured it so as toTfcittaver it. So
with this resolution I composed myself for »
time, and resolved that I would go to work witlr
all speed to build me a wall with piles anti,
cables, &c. in a circle as boforc, antl s#t my
tent up in it when it was finished; but that I
would venture to stav where 1 was till it was
< -
finished and fit to remove iuto. Thi; was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I bega/i to con-
sider of means to put Uiib. resolve into execution,
but I was at,a greal loss about my tools; I had.
three large axe*, and abundance of hatchets,
(for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the
Indians,) but with much chopping and culling:
knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches;
and though I had a grind-stone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. At length 1 contrived"
u kind of wheel with a string, to turn it with my'
foot, that I might hare both my hands at libertr.
I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least not to take notice how it was done, though
since I have observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grindstone was very large and
heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work
to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 20. These two whole days I look-
up in grinding my tools, my machine for turning
my grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived mv bread had
been low a great while, now I took a survey of
it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day,
which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning looking toward* the
sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lie
on the shore bigger than ordinary; and when
I came to it, it proved to be a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck ,of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the late hurri-
cane; and looking towards die wreck itself, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water
than It used to do. jOn examining the barrel, I
found it was a barrel of gun-powder, but it had
taken water, and tlie powder was caked as hard
as a stone; however,:! rolled it further ou shore
for the present. ,
When I came down to the ship, I found It
strangely removed; the forecastle, which lay
before buried in saud, was heaved up at least six
feet; and the stern, which was broke to pieces,
and parted from (he rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed
up, as it were, and cast on one side, and the sand
was thrown so high on that side next her stern,
that where there was a great place of water be-
,fore, sp that I could not come within a quarter
of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could
HOW walk quite up to her when the tide was out;
I was surprised with this at first, but soon con-
cluded it .must have been done by the earth-
quake.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the
design of removing my habitation; and I busied
myself that day in searching whether I could
make any way into the ship; but I found no-
thing was to be expected of that kind, for that
all the inside of the ship was choaked up with
sand,.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut'a piece
of a beam through, which I thought held the up-
per part or quartor-deck together, and when I
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as
I could from the side which lay highest; but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for*
that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport; when just going to leave off, I caught a
young dolpjiin. I made a long line of rope-
yaru, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught
• fish enough, us much as I cared to cat; all which,
I dried in the'sun, and eat them dry.
May 5 to 14. I went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber and
board, or plank, and two or three hundred weight
of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I
could cut a piece off the roll of lead by placing
the edge of one hatchet, and driving it in with
'the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half
in the-Water, I could not make any blow to drive
the hatchet.
May 16. It had blowed hard in the night,
and the wreck appeared more broken by the
force of the water; but I staid so long in the
woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented me going to the wreck that day.
'. |Hay 24. Every day to this I worked on th".
H3
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some
things so much with the crow, that the first blow-
ing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to laud that day but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some Bra-
zil pork in it, but the salt water und sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th,
of June, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed, during this part of
my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out;
and by this time I had gotten timber and plank,
and irpjn-work, enough to have built a good
boat, jf I had kumvn. how; and alsp I got at
several times, and in several pieces, near a hun-
dred weight of sheet-lead. .
June 16. Going down to tlie sea-side, I found
a large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I
had seen, which, it seems was only my misfor-
tune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity;
for h,ad I happened to be on the other side of
the island, I might have had hundreds of them
every day, as I found afterwards.
June. 17. I spent in cookiqg the turtle: I found
in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me
at that time the most savoury and pleasant that
I ever tasted in my lite, having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I landec| in this horrid
place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold;.and I
was something chilly, which I knew was not
usual in that latitude:
June 19. Very ill and shjvering, as if the
weather had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in
my head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to death
with the apprehensions of my sad condition—to
be sick and no help! Prayed to God for the
first time since the storm off Hull; but scarcely
knew what I said or why, my thoughts being all
confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shiver-
ing, and then a violent head-ache; but on the
i;4th I was much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held
me seven hours; cold fit and hot, wijh faiirt
sweats after it.
j une 2G. Better; and having no victuals fff*
eat, took my gun, but found myself very weak;
however, I killed a she-goat, and with much
difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it,
«nd eat; I would fain have stewed it, and made
some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I
• Jay in bed all day, aud neither eat nor drank.
I was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak,
I had no strength to stand up, or to get myself
Tany water to drink.
And now when I began to be sick, and a dis-
tinct view of the miseries of death came to place
itself before me; when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and
nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, awak-
ened, and I began to reproach nlyself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncom-
mon wickedness, provoked the justice of God to
deal with me in so vindictive a manner. , ,
These reflections oppressed me for the second
qr third day of my distemper; and in the vio-,
lence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my conscience, extorted some words
ifrom me like praying to God, though I cannot
say they were either a prayer attended with de-
sires or with hopes: it was rather the voice of
mere fright and distress. My thoughts were con-
fused; the convictions great upon my mind; and
the horror of dying in such a miserable condition,
raised vapours into my head with the mere ap-
prehensions: and in these hurries of my soul I
knew not what my tongue might express; but
it was rather exclamation; .such as, Lord, what
a miserable creature am I! If I should be
sick, I shall certainly die for want of help—and
what will become of me! Then the tears burst
out of my eyes, and I could say no more for ;i
good while.
In this interval the good advice of my father
came to my mind, which I had so wickedly re-
jected, viz. That if I did take this foolish step,
(God 'would not bless me; and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. Now, said I, aloud, my dear
father's words are come to pass:—God's justice
Jias overtaken me, and I have none to help or
hear me! I rejected the voice of Pvovklence,
which had mercifully put me in a posture, or
station of life, wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learu to know the blessing of it from my parents.
I left my parents to mourn over my folly, and
now I am left to mourn under the consequences
of it. I refused their help and assistance, who
would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me; and now
I have difficulties to struggle with too great for
even nature itself to support, and no assistance,
no help, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried
out, Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress! . *
This was the first prayer, if I may call it sOj
that I had made for many years. But I return
to my journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed
with sleep, I rose to get something to refresh
and support myself; and the first thing I did,
I filled a large -square case bottle with water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to ta^e off the chill of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and
mixed them together: then I got me a piece of
the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat only very little; I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-
hearted with the thoughts of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the
next day.
At night I made my supper of three of the
turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
eat, as we call it, in the shell; and this was the
first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing
ib, thut I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk, but found-
myself so weak that I could hardly carry the
gun; (for I never went out without that) so I ,
went but a little way, and sat down' upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth. As
i sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
lo me :—
ft'hat is this earth and sea of which I havfi
seen so much'? Whence is it produced ] And
what am I and all the other creatures, wild and
fame; lumiau and brutal—whence are we t Sure-
ly we are all' made by some secret power, who
jbrmed the earth awd sea, the air and sky; and
tdio is-that 1
Then it followed most naturally—It is ,G«d
that has made it all! Well, but (then k came
on strangely) if God have made all these things,
he guides and governs them ail, and all things
that concern them; for the power that could:
make all things, must certainly have power to
guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit
of his works, either without his knowledge or
appointment: and if nothing happens without Ins
• knowledge, he knows that I am here, and am in
this dreadrul condition; and if nothing happens
without his appointment, he has appointed all
this to befal me.
Nothing occnrred to my thoughts to contradict
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must
needs be that God has appointed all this to be-
fal me; that I was brought to this miserable cir-
cumstance by his direction, he having the sole
power not of me only but of every thing that
happened in the world. Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me 1 What have
I done to be thus used? My conscience pre-
sently checked me in that enquiry, as if I had
blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me like
a voice, 'Wretch! Dost thou ask what thou
feast done? Look back upon a dreadfully mis*
spent life, arid ask thyself what thou hast not
tlone! Ask, why it is that thou wast not long
ago destroyed? Why wast thou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight, when
the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war;
devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of
Africa; OP drowned fare, when all the crew
perished but thyself] Dost thou ask, what have
I done!'
I was (truck dumb with these reflections, as
one astonished; and had not a word to say, no
not to answer to myself; but rose up pensive
and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went
up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed;
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my
chair and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now as the apprehension of the return of
my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought*, that the Brasilians take no phy-
sic but ibeir tobacco for almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a toll of tobacco in one of
die chests which was quite cured, and some also
tkat was green and not quite cured.
I
•I went, directed by heaven no doubt; for in
this chest I found a cure for both soul and
body; I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz. tine tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, 1 Took out one
of the bibles which I mentioned before, ami
which to this time I had not found leisure or
£o much as inclination to look into; I say I
took it out, and brought both that and the to-
bacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tob»»co, I knew not
exactly, but I tried several experiments with it:
I first took a piece of a leaf and chewed it in
my mouth, which at first almost stupiticd me,
the tobacco being green and strong; then I
took some and steeped it an hour or two in
some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it
when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon
a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the
smoak as long as I could bear it, as well for the
heat as almost for suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the
bible and began to read, but my head was xtoo,
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear read-
ing, at least that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words thai occurred to
me were these—" Call on me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver ye, and thou shalt
glorify me." . ;,'
The words were very apt to my case, and
made some impression upon my thoughts at the
time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterwards; for, as to being delivered,
the word had no meaning, as I may say, to me;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that I began to say as
the children of Israel did, when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in
the wilderness?" So I began to say, "Can God
himself deliver me from this place?" And as it
was not for many years that any hope appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. It
grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep;
so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I
should want any thing in the night and went to
bed; but before I lay down, I did what I had
never done in my life, I kneeled down and pray-
ed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I
called upou him he would deliver me. After
my broktu and imperfect prayer was over, I
drank the mm in which I had steeped the to-
12
bacco, which was so strong and rank with it,
that I could scarcely get it down; immediately
upon this I went to bed, and I presently found,
it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till by
the sun it appeared to be three o'clock in the
afternoon of the next day; nay, to this hour I
am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next
day and night, and till three that day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day
out of my reckoning in the days of the week,
as it appeared some years after I had done: for
if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the
line I should have lost more than one day. But,
in my account, it was lost, and I never knew
which way.
When I awaked I found myself exceedingly
refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up, I was stronger than I was the
day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hungry; and in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better.
This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I
went abroad with my gun, but did not care to
travel too far. I .killed a sea-fowl or two, some-
thing like a brand-goose, and brought them home,
but was not in a humour to eat them; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very
good. This evening I renewed the medicine
which I had supposed did me good the day be-
fore, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum, only I did
not take so much as before, nor did I chew any
of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke;
however, I was not so well the next day', which
was the first of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for,.I had a little of the cold fit, but jt
was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dozed myself with it as at iirst; and
doubled the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all,
though I did not recover my full strength for
some weeks after. While I was thus gathering
strength, my thoughts run exceedingly upon this
scripture, "I will deliver thee;" and the irupos-
sibility of my deliverance lay much upon my •
mind in bar of uiy ever expecting jt. But as I
was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
occurred to my mind, that I pored so much upon
Epy deliverance from the main affliction, that I
disregarded the deliverance I had received; and
I 3
I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques-
tions as these, viz. "Have I not been delivered,
and wonderfully too, from sickness; from the
most distressed condition that could be, and that
was so frightful to me? And what notice had I
taken of it? Had I done my part, God had de-
livered me; but I had not glorified him, that is
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for
that as deliverance, and how could I expect
greater deliverance!" This touched my heart
very much,, and immediately I kneeled down,
and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from
sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the bible, and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seri-
ously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read
awhile every morning and night, not tying myself
to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts would engage me. It was not long after
I set seriously to'this work,, but I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wick-
edness of my past life; the impression of my
dream revived, and the words, "All these things
have not brought thee to repentance," ran seri-
6ns!y in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened
providentially lhat very day on reading' the
scripture, I came to these words—" He is exalted
a prince and a saviour, to give repentance, and
to give remission!" I threw down the book, and
with my heart, as well as my hands lifted up to
heaven, in a kind of ecstacy of joy, I cried out
:i!ond, "Jesus, thou Son of David—Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour, give me rqient-
ance ["
This was the first ^timc that I could say in the
true sense of the words, that I prayed in all my
life; for now I prayed with a sense of my condi-
tion, and with a true scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the word of
God, and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hopes that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words before
mentioned, " Call on me, and I will deliver you,"
in a different sense from what I had ever done be-
fore; as then I had no notion of any thing being
called a deliverance, but my being delivered
from the captivity I was in, for though I was in-
deed at large in the place, yet the island was
pertainly a prison to me, and that in the worst
sense in the world; but now I learned to take it
in another sense. Now I looked back upon ray
past life with horror, and my sins appeared so
dreadful, that my soul sought nothmg of God,
but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary lift-, it
was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be
delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no
consideration in comparison to this: but again I
proceed with my journal. -•_•
My condition began now to be, though not
less mise/able as to my way of living, yet much
easier to my mind; and my thoughts being di-
rected, by a constant reading the scripture, and
praying to God, to things of a higher nature; I
had a great deal of comfort within, which till now
I knew nothing of; my health and strength also
returned, I bestirred myself to furnish me with
every thing that I wanted, and make my way of
Jiving as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly
HCW, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
before, neither can I recommend it to any one to
practice by this experiment; and though it did
carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weaken me; for I had frequent convulsions in
my nerves and limbs for sometime.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my health that could be, es-
pecially in those rains which come attended by
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain
•which came in a dry season was always most ac-
companied with such storms, so I found that rain
was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had now been above ten months in the island;
and as I never had seen any of the human kind,
I therefore accounted myself as sole monarch;
and as I grew better, having secured my habita-
tion to my mind, I resolved to make a tour round
mv kingdom, in order to make new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began myjourney. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts
on shore; and travelling farther, found the tide
went no higher than two miles up, where there
was a little brook of running water, on the
banks of which were many pleasant savannas,
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass.
On the rising parts, where I supposed the
water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong stalk; several
other plants I likewise found, the virtues of which
I did not understand.
So that while I pursued this journey of disco-
very, as I may call it, I found many occasions to
regret the want of that useful knowledge I had in
my youth neglected to obtain.
I sought in vain for the Cassava-root, of which
I knew the Indians in that island made their
bread; but all in vain. There were several plants
of aloes, though at that time I knew not what
they were; likewise I saw several sugar-canes,
but imperfect for want of cultivation. With
these few discoveries, I came back that night,
and slept contentedly in my little castle. The
next day, being the ICth, goipg the same way,
but farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees.
Here I perceived different fruits in great abun-
dance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and
clusters of grapes, ripe and. very rich, spread
over the trees.
You may imagine I was glad of this discovery,
yet eat very sparingly, lest I should throw myself
into a flux or fever. The grapes I found of ex-
cellent use; for when I hud dried them in th«
»unt whic.h preserved them as dried raisins are
kt'pt, they proved very wholesome and nourish-
in;:, and served me in those seasons when no
grapes were to be had.'
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a
tree and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I had lain out of my habitation: and
when the luonikig came, I proceeded, with great
fMeasure, OB my way, travelling about four miles,
as t imagined by the length of the valley, direct-
ing my course northward, there being a ridge of
lulls on U.ie south and north side of mc. At the
tnd of this valley I came to an opening, where
.the country seemed to descend to the west;
there I found a little spring of fresh water, pro-
feeding out cf the side of a hill, with its crystal
streams running directly east.
And indeed here my senses were charmed with
the most beautiful landscape nature could afford;
for the country appeared so flourishing,. green,
iiiul delightful, that to me it seemed like a planted
garden. I then descended on the side of that
delicious vale, when I found abundance of cocoa,
orange, lemon, and citron-trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they
•were delightful and wholesome; the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix with water, which
made it very cool and refreshing.
And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
tip a store of grapes, limes, and lemons, again
the approaching wet season. So laying them up
in separate parcels, and then taking a few of
each with me, I returned to my little castle, after
faavirig spent three days in this journey. Before
I got home the grapes were so bruised that they
were utterly spoiled. The limes indeed were
good; but of these I could bring only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags I returned
thither again; but, to my great surprise, found
all the grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and
abundance eaten, which made me conclude there
were wild beasts thereabout. To prevent this
happening again, I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them upon the upper
branches of the trees, both to keep them unhurt,
-IP! that they might cure and dry in the sun; and
having well loaded myself with limes and lemons,
I returned once more to my old place of resi-
'dence.
And now, contemplating on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the beauty of the ad-
jacent woods, I concluded I was settled in the
worst part of the country, and therefore was
thinking to remove my habitation. But when I
considered again, that though it was pleasant, it
w:as off fron> the sea-side, where there was a pos-
sibility, some time or oiher, a ship might either
be driven or sail by; and that to enclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly put ai) end
to my hopes of deliverance, I resolved to let my
castle remain where Providence bad first assigned
it. Yet so delighted was I with this place, that
I made a little hind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and tilled with bulrushes; and
having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I began
, to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry I
took them from the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun; the most of which
K
I carried to my cave; and happy for me I did so,
by which I saved the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other, yet,
having no shelter of a hill to keep me from storms,
and a cave behind to retreat to, I was obliged to
return to toy old castle.
The rain continued more or less every day till
the middle of October; and sometimes so vio-
lently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days. This season I found my family to
encrease; for one of my cats that ran away from
me, and which I thought had been dead, returned
about August with three kittens at her heels like
herself. The wild cats of the island seemed to
be of a different kind from our European cats;
but from these cats proceeded such numbers, that
I was forced to destroy them as I would do wild
beasts or vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when, beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice, the
first of which I shot a goat, and afterwards found
a very large tortoise. The manner of regulating
my food was thus: A bunch of raisins served
me for breakfast, a piece of goat's flesh or turtle
CRUSOE. 99
broiled for my dinner, and two or three turtle
eggs for my supper.
While the rain lasted I daily worked ttfo or
three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence, or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But after I had done
this, I was troubled to see myself thus exposed;
though I could not perceive any thing to fear, a
goat being the biggest creature I had seen upon
this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up the notches op my post,
which amounted to three hundred and sixty-five,
I concluded this to be the anniversary of my
landing; and therefore humbly prostrating my-
self on the ground, confessing my sins, acknow-
ledging God's righteous judgments upon me, and
praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy upon me,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then, eating a bjscuit and a bunch
of grapes, laid me on the bed, and with great
comfort took my night's repose.
Till this time I never had distinguished the
sabbath day; but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary for the days of rest, and divided
the weeks as well as I could, though I found I
had lost a day or two in my account. My ink
failing soon after, I omitted in my daily memo-
randum things of an indifferent nature, and con-
tented myself to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared nov/ regu-
lar to me, and experience taught me how to
provide for them: yet, in one thing I am going
to relate, my experience very much failed me.
You may call to mind what I have mentioned of
some barley and rice which I had saved; about
thirty stalks of the former, and twenty of the
latter; and at that time the sun being in its
southern position, going from me together with
the ra,ins, made me conclude it a very proper
season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece
of ground with my wooden spade, and dividing
it in two parts, sowed about two thirds of my
seed, preserving by me about a handful of each.
And happy it was I did so; for, no rain falling,
it was parched up, and never appeared above the
oarth till the wet season came again, and then
part of it grew as if it had been newly sown.
I jvas resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my
bower, I there sowed the rest of my seed in Fe-
bruary, a little before the vernal equinox, which,
having the rainy months of March and April to
water it, yielded a noble crop, and sprung up
very-pleasantly.
I had still saved part of (he seed, not daring
to venture all; and by the time I found out the
proper season to sow in, and that I might expect
every year two seed timrs aml two harvests, my
stock amounted to above half a peck o^ each soft
of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees shot out like wil-
lows. I was ignorailt of the tree I had cut them
from; but they grew so regularly beautiful, that
they made a most lively appearance; and so
flourished in three years time, that I resolved to
cut more of them; and these soon growing, made
a glorious fence, as afterwards I sbajl observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into summer
and wiater, as in Europe, but into wet and dry
seasons, as in tin's manner:—
r February, -j Rainy, sun conv
Half-] March, \ ing near the
(. April, 3 equinox.
K 3
- April, ^
V May, /Dr.V, sun
llalf< June, V north of the
I July, \ line.
August,
r August, "\
, 1 c ", i I Wet, the sup being
IlulfX September, J. ,
J _. . , \ comeback.
t October, J
October, ,
V November, / Dry, sun rising
Half-/ December, V south of the
/ January, \ line.
February,
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter as the winds happened to blow: but .
having found the ill consequences of being abroad
in the rain, I took care before hand to furnish
myself with provisions: and, during the wet
months, sat within doors as much as possible.
At this time I contrived to make many things
that ,I wanted, though it cast me much labour
mid pains before I accomplished them. The
first I tried was to make a basket; but all the
twigs I could get proved so brittle, that I could
not then perform it. It n,ow proved of great ad-
vantage to me that, when a boy, I took great
delight in standing at a basket maker's, in the
same town where my father lived, to view them
at wotk: and, like other boys, curious to see
the manner of their working these things, and
very officious to assist, I perfectly learned the
method of it, and wanted nothing but' the tools:
and it coming into my head, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes might be as tough
as sallow, willojv, or osiers, growing in England,
1 resolved to make an experiment, and went the
next day to my coyntry scat, and found some fit
for my turn; and after cutting down a quantity
with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and
when fit to work with carried them to my cave,
wh*re I employed myself in making several sorts
pf baskets, insomuch ihat I succeeded in what-
ever I pleased. It is true, that they were not
cleverly made: yet they served my turn upon all
occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had,
no cask to hold my liquor, neither had I a pot
to boil any thing in. I wanted, likewise, at the
beginning of this dry season, a tobacco-pipe; but
for this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second
row of stakes; but remembering that when 1
travelled up to the brook I had a wish to see th«
whole island, I now resumed my intention; and
taking my dog, gun, hatchet, some biscuit, 3
great bunch of raisins, with a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, 1 began my journey.
Having past the vale where my bower stood,
I came within view of the sea lying to the west;
when it being a clear day, I fairly descried land,
extending from the W. tq the S.W. about 10 or 15
leagues, as I concluded; but could not say whe-
ther it was an island or a continent: 1 thought it
might be part of America, or the Spanish coast:
and if it were not, then it must be the savage
coast, between the Spanish country and Brasil,
which abounds with cannibals, or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the.
fragrant fields, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several fine woods.
There were parrots iri plenty, which made me
long for one to be my companion; but it was with
great difficulty 1. could knock down one with my
slick, and I kept him at home some years before
I could get him to call me by my name.
In this.journey I did not travel above two miles,
a day, because I took several turns and windings
to see what discoveries I could make, rrhiriiing
weary enough to the place where I designed to
ie»t all night, which was cither in a tree, or to a
place which 1 surrounded with stakes, that no
wild creature might suddenly surprize me.
When I came to the sea-stare I was amazed 'to
see the splendor of it: its strand was covered
with shells of -the most beautiful kinds, and con-
stantly abounding with innumerable turtles, and
fowls of many species, which I was ignorant of,
except those called penguins.
I continued my journey, travelling^a^outtwelve
miles farther towards the east, where I fixed a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey would bring me to the other
side of the island, east from my castle, and so
• round till I'came to my post again. As I had a
constant view of the country, I thought I could
not miss my way j but scarce had I travelled three
miles, when I descended into a very large valley,
so surrounded .with hills covered with wood, that
having no certain guide but the sun, nor even that
now, it being entirely hid by the hills, I was
obliged to return to my post by the sea-side; and
so backwards in the same way I came. In this
journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have
killed it, had I not prevented him,
As I had often beefn thinking of getting a kid
or two, and so raising a breed of tame goats to
supply rue after my ammunition \va* spent, I took
this opportunity of beginning: and having made
a collar for this little creature with a string of
rope yarn, I brought it to my bower, and there
enclosed and left it; and, having spent a month
in this journey, at length I returned to my old
habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction when I
arrived at my little castle, and reposed myself in
my hammock. After my journey I rested myself
a week, which time I employed in making a cage
for my pretty Poll. I now began to think of the
poor kid I had left at the bower; and I immedi-
ately went to fetch it home. When I came there
I found the young creature almost starved. I
gave it some food, and tied it as before; but
there was no occasion, for it followed me like a
• dog; and, as I constantly fed it, it became so
loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one
of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equino*
being now come, I kept the 30th of September
in the most solemn manner, as usual, it being the
third year of my abode in the island. I spent
the whole day in acknowledging God's mercies;
in giving him thanks for making this solitary life
as agreeable, and less sinful than (hat of human
society: and for the communications of his grace
to my soul, in supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon his Providence,
and hope for his eternal presence in the world to
come.
I would often wring my hands, and weep like
a child, when I considered the desolate situation
I was in—shut out from all mankind. Sometimes
in the middle of my work this fit would take me,
and then I would sit down and sigh, looking at
the ground for an hour or two together, till such
time as my grief got vent in a flood of tears.
One morning as I was sadly employed in this
manner, I opened my bible, when immediately I
fixed my eyes upon these words, / will never
leave tltee, nor forsake thec. Surely, thought I,
these words are directed to me, or else, why
«hould they appear just at a moment when I was
bemoaning my forlorn condition'? And if God
does not forsake me, what matters it, since he
can make me more happy in this state of liie
than if I enjoyed' the greatest splendor in the
\forld?
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: First, my duty tir
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy scrip-
tm,e.'f, which I did twice or thrice every day.
Secondly, seeking provision with my gun, which
coumionly took me up\ when it did not rain,
three hours every morning. Thirdly, the order-
ing, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had
killed, or catched for my supply, which took me
up a gi,eat part of the day: for in the middle of
the day, the sun being in its height, it was so
hot, that I could not stir out; so that I had only
four hours in the evening to work in; and then
the want of tools, of assistance, and skil),
-wasted a great deal of time to little purpose.
I was not lesathan two-and-forty days making
a board fit for a long Shelf, which two sawyers,
with their tools and saw-pit, would have cut out
of the same tr^r in half a day. It was of a larste
tree, as my board was to be broad. 1 was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lopping
off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of
timber. This I hacked and. hewed oS' each sid,>,
till it became light to move; then I turned it,
inside one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end; then turned it downward,
cutting the other side, till I brought the piank to
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any body may judge of my great labour
and fatigue in such a piece of work; but this I
went through with patience, as also many oiher
things that my circumstances made necessary for
me to do.
The harvest months, November and December,
were now at hand, in which I had the pleasing
prospect of a very good crop. But here I met
with a new misfortune; for the goats and hares,
having tasted of the sweetness of the blade,
kept it so short, that it had not strength to shoot
up into a stalk. To prevent this I enclosed it
with a hedge, and by day shot some of its de-
vourers; and my dog, which I had tied to the
field-gate, barking all night, so frightened these
creatures, that I got entirely rid of them.
But no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of birds, which only wailed till my back
was .turned to ruin mc. So .much did this pro-
voke me, that I let fly and killed three of lhe
L
malefactors; and afterwards served them as they
,do notorious thieve'! in England, hung them up
in, chains as a terror to others. And indeed ?o
good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long
as these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crop, it was so slender. The ears I
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with
my hands, instead of threshing it; and when my
harvest was over found my half peck of seed
produced near two bushels of rice, and two
bushels and a half of barley.
And now, having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two,
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, which I dug up with my wooden
spade, in which I sowed my seed, and fenced
it with a good hedge.
This took me three, months, by which time, the
wet season coming on, and the rain keeping me
withindoors, I found several occasions to employ
myself; and while at work used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name, Poll, the first welcome
word I heard spoke in the island. I had been
a long time contriving how to make earthen ves-
sels, which I wanted extremely; and when I
coniidered the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if I could find any such clay, I
might botch up a pot strong enough, when dried
in the sun, to bear handling, and to hold anything
that was dry; as corn, meal, and other things.
In short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile, to see
what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
mishapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed. So
I think it was two months time before I could
perfect any thing, and even then but two clumsy
things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them; and, be-
tween the pot and basket, stuffed it full of rice
and barley-straw: and these, I presumed, would
hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal when
the corn was bruised. As for the smaller things,
I made them with better success; such as Ifftle
T, 2
• round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
the sun bail ing them very hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It once happened that
as I was puttiag out my fire, I founc} therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt hard
as a rock, and red as a tile. This made me
think of burning some pots; and having no no-
lion of a kjln, or of glazing them with lead, I
fixed thrpc l&rge pipkins, and two or three ppts
in a pile one upon another. The fire I piled
round the outside, and dry wood on the top, till
I saw the pots in the mside red-hot, and found
that they did not crack at all; and when I per-
ceived them perfectly red, I let one of them
stand in the fire fite or six hours, till the clay
melted by the extremity of the heat, and would
have run to glass, had I'suffered it; upon which
I slackened my fire by degrees till the redness
abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my pur-
pose as I could defire.
No joy could be greater than min« at this dis-
covery; for after this, I may say, I wanted for
no sort of earthenware, I filled one of my pip-
kins with water to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of kid I
made me some good broth, as well as my cir-
cumstances would afford me at that time.
The next concern I had was to get me a stone
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
grind it. Here indeed I was at a great loss;
many days I spent to find a great stone big enough
to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar, and strong
enough to bear the weight of a pestle, that would
break the corn without filling it with sand: b it
all the stones of the island being of a mouldering
nature, rendered my search fruitless; and then
1 resolved to look out for a great block of hard
wood; which having soon found, I formed-it
with my axe and hammer, and then with infinite
labour made a hollow in it, just as the Indians
of Brasijmake their canoes. When I had finished
this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood, and
then laid them up till my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to
sif( my meal, and part it from the bran and husk.
Having no fine thin canvas to sift the meal
through, I could not tell what to do. The
L 3
linen I had was reduced to rags; I had goats'
hair euough, but neither tools to work it, nor
did I know how to spin it: at length I remem-
bered Ilip.d some neckcloths of calico or muslin
of (he sailors, whkh I had brought out of the
ship, and with these I made three small sieves,
proper enough for the work.
I came now to consider the baking part. The
want of an oven I supplied by making some
rail hen pans very broad, but not deep. When
I hud a mint} to bake I made a great fire upon,
my hearth, the tiles of which I made myself;
and when the wood was burnt into live coals,
I spread them over it, till it became very hot;
then sweeping them away, I set down my loaves,
and turning down the earthen pots upon them,
drew the ashes and coals all round the outside of
the pots to continue the heat; and in this manner
I baked n?y barley loaves, as well as if I had
been a complete pastry-cook; and also made of
the rice several cakes and puddings.
It was no wonder that these employments took
me up the best part of a year, since what 'inter-
mediate time- I had was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the proper
season I reaped my corn, carried it home, and,
laid it up in the ear in my large baskets, till I
had time to rUb, instead of threshing it. And
now indeed my corn encreased so much, that it
produced me ab ml twenty bushels of barley,
and as much of rice; that I not only began to
use it freely, but was thinking how to enlarjre my
barns, and resolved to sow as much at a tinic as
would be sufficient for me for a whole vcar.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the island, ran
in my mind. I still meditated a deliverance from
this place, though the fear of greater misfor-
tunes might have deterred me from it; for, al-
lowing that I had attained that place, I run the
hazard of being killed and eaten by the devour-
ing cannibals; and if they were not so, yet I
might be slain, as other Europeans had been who
fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all this,
my thoughts ran continually upon that shore.
I now wished for my boy Xiiry, and the long-
boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went to
the ship's boat, that had been cast a great way on
the shore in the late storm: she was removed but a.
little; hut her bottom being turned up by the im-
petuosity and fury of the waves and wind, I fell to
ivork with all the strength I had, and with levers
and rollers I had cut front the wood, to turn her,
and repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took me up three or four weeks, when find-
ing my little strength all in vain, I fell to under?
mining it by diggijug away the sand, and so make
'it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it in the fall. But after this was done, I
was still unable to stir it up, or to get under it,
much less to move it forwards to the water, and
fo I was forced to give it over.
This disappointment however did not frighten
me. I began to think whether it was not possible
for me to make a canoe or perigua,. such as the
Indians make of the tri^nk of a tree. But here
I lay under particular inconvenieneics; namely,
want of tools to make it, and want of hands t»
move it in the water when it was made. However,
to work I went upon it, stopping all the enquiries
I could make, with this very simple answer I made
to myself; Let me first make it, and then find
some way or other to get it along when it is done.
1 first cut down a cedar tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a t.pace, and then parted into
re a-/ieii
(7
,by Tatart&C°[.cmOtm.
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
hewing this tree at the bottom, fourteen more
in cutting off the branches and limbs, and a
whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such a
manner, that it was big enough to carry twenty-
six men, much bigger than any cancre I had ever
seen in my life, and consequently sufficient to
'transport me and all my effects to that wished-for
shore I so ardently desired to get at.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty, namely, to get it into the water, it
King about one hundred yards from it. To re-
medy the first inconvenience, which was a rising
hill between this boat and the creek, with won-
derful pains and labour I dug into'the surface of
the earth, and made a declivity.
But when this was done, all the strength I
had was insufficient to move it, as it was when I
attempted to move the ship's boat. I then pro-
ceeded to measure the distance of ground, re-
solved to make a canal, in order to bring the
water to the canoe, since I could not bring the
danoc to the water.
But as this was impracticable by myself alone,
unless with eleven or twelve years' labour, it
brought me into some sort of consideration, &>
that I concluded this also to be impossible,
and the attempt altogether vain.
I now saw, and not before, what stupidity it
is to begin work before we reckon its costs, or
judge rightly our own abilities to go through with
its performance.
In the height of this work, my fourth year
expired from the day I was cast upon this island.
At this time I did not forget my anniversary, but
kept it with rather greater devotion than before;
for now my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon
this world as a thing I had nothing to do with;
and very well might I say, as father Abraham
said unto Dives, "Between me and thee there is
a gulph fixed."
I had nothing to covet. I had plenty of corn,
turtles, grapes, and timber in abundance. What
•was all the rest to me? The money I had by me
lay as despicable dross, which I would have freely
given for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or a hand-mill
to grind my corn: in a word, the nature and
experience of these things dictated to me this
just reflection, that the good things of this world"
are no farthej of good to us than they are for
our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give others, we can but enjoy as much as we use,
and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
titan usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I
did it with thankfulness, admiring the providen-
tial hand of God, who, in this wilderness, had
spread a table for me. And now I considered
what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; and
compared my present condition with what I at
ijrst expected it would be.
I next compared my station to that which I
deserved; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents; how destitute of the fear of God; and
how void of every thing that was good; and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had re-
ceived from Heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah's being fed with
ravens; and cast upon a place where there were
no venomous ufreatures to poison or devour me:
in short, making God's tender mercies matter of
great consolation, I relinquished all sadness, and
gave way to contentment.
'As long as my ink continued, which by the
'help of water I made t? last as long as I could, I
used to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened. And,
First, I observed, that the same day I forsook
my parents and friends* and ran away to Hull,
in order to go to sea, the same day in the next
year I was taken, and made a slave by the Sallee
rovers:
That the very day I escaped out of the wreck
of the ship in Yarmouth Reads, a year after, on
the same day, I made my escape from Sallee in
my patron's fishing-bopt:
And that on the 30th of September, being the
day of the year I was born on, on that day
twenty-six years after was I miraculously saved
and cast ashore on this island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink; was
the biscuit which I had brought out of the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a day
for above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of
bread for near a year before I could get any
com of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay,
and my linen had been gone long before. How-
ever, I had preserved about three dozen of the
sailors' chequered shirts, which proved a great
refreshment to me, when the violent beams of the
sun would not suffer me to bear any of the sea-
men's heavy watch-coats, which made me tura
taylor, and, after a miserable botching manner,
convert them to jackets. To preserve my head,
1 made me a cap of goat-skins, with the hair
outwards to keep out the rain, which indeed
served me so well that afterwards I made me
a waistcoat and opfu-kneed breaches of the
same: and then I contrived a sort of umbrella,
covering it with skius, which not only kept out
the heat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus
being easy and settled in my mind, my chiefest
happiness was to converse with God in most
heavenly and comfortable ejaculations. %
For five years after this I cannot say any extra-
ordinary thing occurred to me. My chief em-
ployment was to cure my raisins and plant my
barley and rice, of both which I had a year's
provision beforehand. •
But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it at intermediate times my busi-
ness to make a second, of much inferior size;
i and it was two years before I finished it. But
as I perceived it would no ways answer my design
of sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
at
confined to taking a tour round the island, to
see what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the water,
and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail of the ship's
sail that lay by me.
I then made lockers, or boxes, at the end of
it, to put in necessaries, provisions and ammu-
nition, which would preserve them dry either
from rain or the spray of the sea; and in the
inside of the boat I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry made a flap
to hang over it. My umbrella I fixed in a step
in the stern, like a mast, to keep the heat of the
sun from me.
And now resolving to see the circumference of
my little kingdom, I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my barley-bread
loaves, an earthen potful of parched rice, a little
tfbttle of rum, half a goat, powder and shot,
and two watch-coats. It was the sixth of No-
vember, in the sixth year of my reign, or c;tp~
tivity, that I set out on this voyage, which was
much longer than I expected, being obliged to
put farther out by reason of the rocks that lay
a great way in the sea. And indeed so much did
theie rocks surprise me, that I was for putting
back, fearing that if I ventured farther, it would
be out of my power to return. In this uncer-
tainty I came to an anchor just off shore, to
which I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and
then climbing up a hill which overlooked that
point, I saw the full extent of it, and so I re-
solved to run all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
close to the point; which I the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when
I came to it I might be driven into the sea by its
force, and not be able to return to the island;
and certainly it must have been so had I not made
this observation; for on the other side was the
like current, with this difference, that it set off
at a greater distance; and I perceived there was
a slgong eddy under the land, so that my chief
business was to work out of the first current, and
conveniently get into the eddy.
Two days I stayed here, (he wind blowing very
briskly E. S. E. which, being contrary to the
current, leaves a great branch of the sea upon
the point; so it was neither fit for me to keep too
near the shore, on account of the breach, nor
- M2
stand at too great a distance, for fear of the
streams.
That night, the wind abating, it grew so calm
that I ventured out, and here I may be a monu-
ment to all rash and ignorant pilots; for I was
no sooner come to the point, and not above the
boat's length from shore, but I was got into a
deep water, with a current like a mill, which
drove my boat along so violently, that it was
impossible for me to keep her near the edge of
it, but forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of ree; and all I could do with
my paddles was useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost; since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain it must join again,
and then I had no hopes but of perishing for
want in ihe sea, after what provisions I had were
spent, or before, if a storm should happen to
arise.
Who can conceive the anguish of my mind at
this calamity? With longing eyes'did I look
upon my little kingdom, and thought that island
the pleasantest place in the universe. Happy,
thxic.e happy desert, said I, shall I never see
thee more! Wretched creature!—'Whither am
.1 going? Why did I Murmur at my lonesome
condition, when now I would give the whole
world to be thither again?
While I was thus complaining, I found myself
to be driven about two leagues into the sea.
However, I laboured till my strength was tar
spent, to keep my boat as far north as possibly
I could, to that side of the current where the
eddy lay. About noon I perceived a little breeze
of wind spring up from the S. S.E. which over-
joyed my heart; and I was still more elated,
when, in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine
gale.
Had it been thick weather I had been lost
another way; for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards
the island, if once it had disappeared; but it
proving the contrary, I set up my mast again,
spread rny sail, and stood away northward as
much as I could, to get rid of the current. No
sooner did the boat begin to steer away, but I
perceived, by the clearness of the water, a
change of the current was near; for where it
was strong the water was foul, and where it was
/clear the current abated. To the east I soon
M 3
saw, about half a mile distant, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to
separate; and as the main force drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the
north-east, so the other came back by the re-
pulse of the rocks, making a sharp eddy, which
returned back again to the north-west with a
very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be
saved from thieves just going to take away their
lives, or such as have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily I ran my boat into the- stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be-
fore it with a smart tide under foot.
By the assistance of this eddy I was carried
above a league home again, when, being in the,
wake of the island, betwixt two currents, I found
the water to be at a sort of a stand. About four
o'clock in the afternoon I reached within a league
of tiie island, and perceived the points of the
rock, which caused this disaster, stretching out,
as I observed before, to the southward, which,
throwing off-the current more southwardly, had
occasioned Smother eddy to the nonk. But,
having a fair brisk gale, I stretched across this
eddy, and in an hour cairte within a mile of the
shore, where I soon landed to my unspeakable
comfort; and after an humble prostration, thank-
ing God for my deliverance, with a resolution to
lay all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my
boat safe to a little cove, and laid me down to
take a welcome repose.
When I awoke I was considering how I might
get my boat home ; and coasting along thft shore,
I came to a good bay, which ran up to a rivulet,
or brook, where, finding a safe harbour, I stowed
her as safe as if she had been in a dry dock made
on purpose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; so, taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, I
began my journey, and in the evening came to
my bower, where I again laid me down to rest.
I had not slept long before I was awakened in
great surprise by a strange voice that called me
several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusae!
Poor Robin! Where are you, Robin Crusoe—
where are you'? Where have you been?" So
fast was I asleep at first, lhat I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me.
But as the voice repeated " Robinson Crusoe"
several times, I started up in the utmost confu-
sion; and no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top
of the hedge, and soon knew that it wats he that
called me; for just in such bewailing language
I used to talk to and teach him, which he so ex-
'actly learned, that he would sit upon my finger
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
"Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? Where
have you been? How came you hert 1" And
such like prattle I had constantly taught him-
But even though I knew it to be the parrot, it
was a great while before I could adjust myself;
being amazed how the creature got thither, and
that he should fix about the place and no where
else. Eut now, being assured it could be no
other than my honest Poll, my wonder ceased;
and reaching out my hand, and calling familiarly
Poll, the poor creature' came to me, and perched
upon ray thumh, as he was wont to do, still re-
peating " Poor Robinson Crusoe," and enquir-
ing how I came here, and where I had been?
As if the bird were overjoyed to see me.
I was now pretty well cured of •'rambling to
sea; yet I wished to have my boat, which had
cost me so much trouble and pains, on my side
of the island once more, but this was indeed im-
practicable.
I therefore began to lead a very retired life,
living near a twelvemonth in a very contented
manner, wanting for nothing, except conversa-
tion. As to mechanic-labours, which my ne-
cessities obliged me to apply to, I fancied I
^ could upon occasions make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the tools I had to work withal but
good. Besides, as I improved in my earthen-
ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel,
which I found much easier and better; my work,
which before was rnde and ugly, became neat
and shapely.
But I think I was never so elevated with my
own performance, or project, as when I was able
to make a tobacco-pipe; which, though it proved
•in awkward, clumsy thing, yet was very sound,
and carried the smoke perfectly well, to my great
satisfaction. •
I also improved my wicker-ware, making me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were handy and convenient
to bring things home in, and also for holding my
stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
• My powder beginning to fail, made me exa-
mine after,.what manner I should kill the goats
and birds to live on, after it was all gone. I
contrived many ways to ensnare the goats, and
see if I could catch them alive, particularly a
she-goat, with young; and at last I had my de-
sire, for, making pit-falls and traps, baited with
barley and rice, I found one morning in one of
them an old he-goat, and in the other three kids,
one male, the other two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. J$ut I forgot the old pro-
verb, that " hunger will tame a lion." For had
I kept him three or four days without victuals,
and then given him some water, with a little corn,
Jie would have been as tame as a young kid.
The other creatures I bound with strings to-
gether, but I had great difficulty before I could
bring them to my habitation. It was some time
before they would feed, but by throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them that they
began to be tame; from hence I concluded,
that if I designed to furnish myself with goat's
fl?sh, when my ammunition was spent, tire tamely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, wa* the only method I could
take.
I concluded also lhat I must separate the wild
from the tame, or else they would always run
wild a.s they grew up; and the best way for this
was to have some inclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with a hedge or paling, to keep
them so effectually, that those within might not
break out, or those without break in.
Such an undertaking was very great for one
pair of hands; but as there was an absolute ne-
cessity for doing it, my first cure was to find a
convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again I gave another instance of my igno-
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece
of meadow-land so large, that had I enclosed ii,
the edge or paling must have been at least two
miles about, Indeed had it. been ten miles, I
had time enough to do it in: but then I did not
consider my goats would be as wild in so much
compass, as if they had had the whole island;
and consequently as difficult for me to catch
them.
This thought came into my head, after I had
carried it on, I believe, fifty yards; I therefore
altered my scheme, and resolved to inclose a
piece of ground about oue hundred and fifty
yards in leugth, and one hundred in breadth,
sufficient for as many as would maintain me till
such time as my flock encreased, and then I
coufd add more ground.
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and
it took me about three months hedging the fiisi
piece, in which time I tethered the three kids iu
the best part of it, feeding them as near me as
possible, to make them familiar: and indeed 1
very often would carry some ears of barley, or
a handful of rice, and feed them out »f ray
hand; by which means they grew so tame, that
when my inclosure was finished, and I had let
them loose, they would run after me for a hand
ful of corn.
This indeed answered my end; and in a year
and a half's time, I had a flock of about twelve
goats, kids and all; and in two years after they
amounted to forty-three, besides what I htrtl
taken and killed for my sustenance. After
which I inclosed five several pieces of ground to
,feed them in, with pens to drive- them into, that
I might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I had not only plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which, in my beginning, 1
did not so much as think of: and indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet, after
some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
aud never afterward wanted either.
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power
comfort his creatures, even in the midst of their
greatest calamities! How can he sweeten the
bitterest afflictions, and give us reason to mag-
nify him in dungeons and prisons! What a
bounteous table did .he spread in the wilderness
tor me, where I expected nothing at first but to
perish with hunger 1
JMy dog, my parrot, and my cats, served me
as companions: the parrot became particularly
amusing, as he leurued to speak with wonderful
facility, and his sayings enlivened the dreary so-
litude ground me. . .
Jt would have.diverted any one to see me aud
.N
my little family sit down to dinner. There Was
myself, the' prince and lord of the island, at-
tended by my train of servants: Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was the only one per-
mitted to talk to me. My dog always stationed
himself at my right hand; and my two cats
v, aited one on each side of the table, expecting
now and then a bit from my hand as a mark of
fny special favor.
Meanwhile my stock of clothes was all worn
out. 1 had patched and botched them together
as long as I possibly could, but they were no
longer in a condition to bear mending. I had
carefuMy saved and dried all the skins of the
animals I had killed for my subsistence, and of
these, although a very indifferent laylor, I made
me a complete suit of clothes, and a cap with
the hair turned outwards.
Had any one in England met such a mail a<
myself, so equipped as I now was, he must have
been a very bold man indeefl if he had not been
thoroughly frightened. And as I viewed myself,
I often laughed to think what wonder, terror, and
astonishment, I should create walking through the
streets tof London in such a figure.
First, I had a great high shapeleso cap,, made
of goats' skin, with a flap hanging down behind,
to keep the rain or sun from my neck. I had a
short jacket of goats' skin, and a pair of loose
breeches, made of the skin of an old goat, the
hair of which was so long that it bung to the
middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had
none, but I made me a pair of somethings to
lace on, like spatterdashes, but of a most bar-
barous shape, as indeed were all my clothes.
Round my waist was a belt of dried goats'
skin, in which was placed a saw and hatchet.
Another belt went over my shoulder, from which
hung two ugly-shaped goat-skin pouches; one
for my powder, and the other for my shot. At
my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder
my gun, and over my head a great clumsy goat-
skin umbrella, I had made with great difficulty,
to shjeld me from the intense heat of the sun.
My upper-lip was adorned with a large pair of
Mahometan whiskers. I will not say these mus-
taches, or whiskers, were large enough to hang
my hat upon; but they were of a length and
shape monstrous enough, and such as in Eng-
land would have passed for frightful. But all
this was of no consequence; for, alas, there were
none to observe, praise, or fmd fault with me |
N2
This fatal idea would sometimes cross me sud-
denly in the midst of my occupations, with an
anguish almost beyond endurance, and my heart
then seemed ready to break, as I reflected that
I was far from the dwellings of my fellow-men,
and imprisoned by the eternal bars and bolts of
the surrounding ocean! On these occasions
tears generally relieved me; and my grief having
exhausted itself, I became again reconciled to my
hapless destiny.
Now again I proceeded on my travels about
the island. I first journeyed along the sea-
shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks. But
having now no boat to fake care of, I went over
land a nearer way to the same lieight that I was
before upon; when looking forward to the point
of the rock which lay out, and which I was
forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to
see the sea so smooth and quief, there being no
ri,)ling motion or current any more than in other
places. This made ine ponder some time to
guess the reason of it, when at last I was con-
vinced that the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the current of the water from some
great river on shore, must be the occasion of
th.ese rapid streams; and that consequently as
the winds blew more westwardly or more south-
wardly, so the current came the marer or went
the farther from shore. To satisfy my curiosity
I waited there till evening, when the time of
ebbing being come, I plainly perceived from the
rock the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther oft' near half a league
from th> shore; whereas in my expedition it set
close upon it, furiously hurrying me and my
canoe along with it, which at another time it
would not have done. And now I was con-
vinced that, by observing the ebbing and flowing
of the tide, I might easily bring my boat round
the island again: but when I began to think of
putting it in practice, the remembrance of the
late danger struck me with such horror, that
I changed my resolution, and formed another,
which was more safe, though more laborious;
and this was, to make a second canoe, and so
have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
I had now two plantations in the island, the
first my little fortification, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements: for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind me,
N3
with several little caves, one within another, t0
hold my baskets, corn, and straw: the piles
ivith which I made my wall, were grown so lofty
that they obscured my habitation: and near
this commodious and pleasant settlement, lay my
well-cultivated and improved corn-fields, which
kindly yielded me their fruits in the proper
season. .
My second plantation was that near my coun-
try-seat, or little bower, where my grapes flou-
rished, and where, having planted many stakes,
I made inclosures for my goats, so strongly for-
tified by labour and time, that it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossi-
ble for them to break through. As for my bower
itself, I kept it constantly in repair, and cut the
trees in such a manner as made them grow thick
and wild, and form a most delightful shade.
In the centre of this stood my tent, thus
erected: I had driven four piles in the ground,
spreading over it a piece of the ship's sail; be-
neath which I made a sort of couch with the
skins of the creatures I had slain, and other
things; and having laid thereon one of the sailor's
blankets, which I had saved from ihe wreck
of the ship, and covering myself with a great
watch-coat, I took up this place for my country
retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement I visited
my boat, and kept her in very good order: and
sometimes I would venture iu her a cast or two
frora the shore, but no farther, lest either a
strong current, a sudden stormy wind, or some
unlucky accident should hurry me from the
island as before. But now I entreat your atten-
tion, whilst I proceed to inform you of a ne\y,
but most surprising scene of life, which here
befel me.
: You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature. One
day it happened, that, going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot very evident on
the sand, as the toes, heel, and every part of
jt, were visible.
Had I seen an apparition in the most fright-
ful shape, I could not have been more confound-
ed { my willing ears gave the. strictest attention:
1 cast my eyes around, but could not satisfy
neither the one nor the other. I proceeded
alternately to every part of the shore,' but
ain; neither could I discover any
..if-
other mark though the sand about it was aq
susceptible to take impression, as that which
was so plainly stamped.
Thus, struck with confusion and horror, I
returned to my habitation, frightened at every
buih and tree, taking every thing for men; and
possessed with the wildest ideas. That night
my eyes never closed. I formed nothing but
the most dismal imaginations, asking myself a
thousand times, how any mortal could come to
this island? Where was the ship that tran-
sported them? And what signs of any other
foot-steps 1 At length, I concluded that some
wild savages of the mainland over against me,
venturing too far in the ocean, had been driven
here, either by the violent currents or contrary
winds; and, not caring to stay on this desolate
island, had gone back .to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I to myself, that none
of the savages had seen, me in that place; yet'
I was not altogether without fear, lest, having
found my boat, they should return in numbers
and devour me, or at least carry away all my
corn, and destroy my flock of tame goats: in
a word, all my religious hopes vanished, as
though I thought God could not now protect
me fey his power, who had wonderfully preserved
me so long.
What various chains of providence there are
in the heart of man! How changeable are our
affections, according to different circumstances!
We love to day what we hate to-morrow; v.e
shun one hour what we seek the next. Tiiis
was evident with me in the roost conspicuous
manner; for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition in being banished from all
hnman kind, was now even ready to expire, when
I cowsidered that a man had set his foot on this
<lesolate island.
But when I considered my station of life, de-
creed by the infinitely wjse and good providence
of God: that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereignty, who had an unbounded right
to govern and dispose of. his creatures as he
thinks convenient; anfl that his justice and mer-
cy could either punish or deliver me: I s;iy,
wlu:n I considered all this, I found it my duty
to trust sincerely in him, pray ard-enily to him,
and humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came again in'.o my mind,
"Call upoij me in tjie day of trouble and I will
deliver (bee, and thou shall glorify me." Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
bed, I offered up my prayers in the most hearty
manner; and when I had done, taking up my
bible to read, these words appeared first to my
sight: "Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and he ,shall strengthen thy heart; wait
I say on the Lord." Such divine comfort did
this give, as to lemove all cause of sadness .upon
•that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and three nights, I at last ventured
out of my castle, and milked my goats, one of
which was almost spoiled for want of it. I next
(though in great fear) visited my bower, and
.milked my flocks there alsp; when growing
bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to set
perhaps .\,helher I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in large-
ness; and so returned home, now absolutely
convinced, that either some men had been on
shore, or that the island must be inhabited; and
therefore that I might be surprised before I was
aware.
I now began to think of providing for my sew
fetirity, and resolved in my mind many schemes
for that purpose; I first proposed to cut down
my incloaiircs, and turn my tame cattle wild into
the woods, that the enemy might not find them,
and frequent the island in hopes of killing the
same. Secondly, I was for digging up my corn-
fields for the very same reason. And lastly, I
determined to demolish my bower, lest, seeing a
place of human contrivance, • they might come
farther, and find out and attack me in my little
castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest
to me; and I looked, I thought, like the unfor-
tunate king Saul, when not only oppressed by
the Philistines, but also forsaken by God him-
self. And it is strange that, a little before, hav-
ing entirely resigned myself to the will «»f God,
I should now have little confidence in him, fear-
ing those more who should kill this fading body,
than he who could destroy my immortal soul.
However my fear made me think of a place
for retreat upon an attack. I now repented that
1 had made my door to come out beyond my
fortification; to remedy which, I resolved to
'make me a second one. I fell to work, there-
fore, and drove betwixt that double roV t,f
trees, which I planted about twelve years befoir,
teveral strong piles, thickening it with pieces of
timber and old cable, and strengthening the foot
of it with earth which I dug out of my cave; I
also made me seven holes, wherein I planted uiy
muskets like cannon, fitting them in frames re-
sembling carriages. This being finished, witk
indefatigable industry, for a great way every-
where around, I planted sticks of osier like a
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving a
large space between them and my wall, that 1
might have room to see an,enemy, and thatthey
might not be sheltered among the young trees it'
they offered to approach the outer wall.
Scarcely two years had passed over lay Lead,
•when there appeared a lovely shading grove, and
in bi\ years it became a thick wood perfectly
impassable. For my safety I kft no avenue to
go in or out; instead of which I set two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low and
broken in, leaving room for to place another
ladder upon that, so that, tvhen I took these
down, it was impossible for any man to descend
without hurting himself; and if he had, he would
still be only at the outride of my outer wall.
All this labour was occasioned merely by fear-
ful apprehensions, on account of seeing the print
of a man's foot. And not contented yet with
what I. had done, I searched for another place
towards the west point of the island, where I
might also retain another flock; then, wandering
on this errand more to the west of the island
than ever I had yet done, and casting my eyes
towards the sea, methought I perceived a boat
at a great distance; but could not possibly tell
what it was, for want of my perspective glass.
I considered then that it might be no strange
thing to see the print of a man's foot; and, con-
cluding them cannibals, blessed God for my
being cast on the other side of the island, where
hone of the savages, as I thought, ever came.
When I came down the hill to the shore, which
was the S. W. point of the island, I was soon
confirmed in my opinion; nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when I saw
the ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
bones of human bodies; and particularly I per-
ceived a space like a circle, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjectured
these wretches had sat, and unnaturally sacrificed
and devoured their fellow-creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
o
ful spectacle confounded my senses, I returned
towards my habitation, and in my way thither
shed floods of tears; and falling down on my
bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to that of these wretches, and
delivering me so long out of their hands.
And although in process of time ray dreadful
apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eye*
were more vigilant, foy fear of being surprised,
and I was very cautious of firing my cun, lest
being heard by those creatures, they, should pro-
ceed to attack me. I'resolved, however, man-
fully te lose my life if they did, and went armed
with three pistols stuck in mr girdle, which, ad
ded to the description I have gwen of myself
before, made me look with a veiy formidable
appearance.
My circu-matances for some tim.e remained Very
calm and undisturbed; and when I compared
my condition to others, I f6und it was far from
being miserable. And, indeed, would all per
sons compare their circumstances, not with those,
above them, but with those innumerable unhappy
objects beneath them, I am sure we should nol
hear' those daily mummrings and complainings
that are in the world. For my part, my whole
thoughts were employed day and night in think-
ing how I might destroy some of these cannibals
uhen proceeding to their bloody entertainments;
and so save a victim from being sacrificed, .that
he might become my servant. Many were my
contrivances for that purpose, and as many ob-
jections occurred after I hud determined au
them.
But having waited in vain two or three months,
without any opportunity occuring of putting my
projects into execution, it not only grew very
tiresome to me, but brought me into some .con-
sideration, and made me examine myself as to
\vhat right I had to kill these creatures in this
manner.
If, urged I to myself, that this natural custom
of theirs was a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs
to the divine Being, who alone hus the vindictive
power in his hands, to shower down IMS veai-
geance upon them: and, perhaps, he does sb in
making them become one another's executio,ners.
Or, if not, if God thinks these doings just, ac-
cording to the knowledge they conceive, what
authority have I to pretend to thwart the de-
crees of Providence, which has permitted these
actions for so many ages, perhaps from almost
the beginning of the creation 1 They never of-
fended me, what right have I then to concern
myself in their shedding one another's blood?
I have since learned, that they think no more
of killing and devouring a captive taken in
war, than we do of killing an 04 or eating
mutton.
Indeed, religion too convinced me that it was
not my duty to be guilty of shedding human
blood, that I had nothing to do with their pu-
nishment, but ought to leave it to the God of all
power and dominion, to do (therein what seemeth
convenient to his heavenly wisdom. And there-
fore, on my knees, I thanked the Almighty for
delivering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged
his protection, that I might never fall into their
hands. .. •
Having thus given over an attempt I had
rashly began, I removed my boat, which was
on the other side of the island, into a little cave,
that there might not be any appearance of an
inhabitant upon the island,,
My castle now became my cell, keeping al-
ways retired in it, except when I went out to
milk my goats and order my little flock iis the
wood, which was quite out of danger.
•
I on Jon, Pvt. June .t-l6vfiyr,itartk
The care of my preservation put a period to
all future inventions and contrivances, either for
accommodation or convenience. I now d;ired
not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a gun, or
make a fire, lest either the noise should be heard,
or the smoke discover me: and on this account
I used to burn the earthenware privately in a
cave which I found in the wood, and which I
made convenient for that purpose.
The cause lhat first brought me to the cave
jvas to make charcoal, so that I might dress my
bread and meat without any danger. At that
time a curious accident happened to me, which
I shall now relate :—While I was cutting down
wood for making my charcoal, I perceived a ca-
vity behind a thick branch of underwood; cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me tp stand up. ,^Ut
.in; but when I had entered and took 4 further
view,, two rolling shining eyes, like flaming stars,
seemed fo dart themselves at me; >.. that I
made all the haste out that I could, not knowing
whether it was a savage or a monster that had
taken up his residence in taat place.
When I recoveied a little from my surprise, I
called myself a thousand fools, and, resuming
c3
all the courage I had, I took up a flaming fire-
brand, and in I rushed again.
I had not proceeded above three steps when
I was more affrighted than before; for then I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, followed by a
broken noise, resembling words half expressed,
and then a deep sigh again. Stepping back—
Lord thought I to myself, where have I got!
Into what enchanted place have I plunged my-
self, such as are reported to contain miserable
captives, till death puts an end to their sorrow?
And, indeed, such a great amazement was I in,
that it struck me into a cold sweat; and had
my but been on my head, I believe my hair
would have moved it off.
But again encouraging myself with God's pro-
tection, I proceeded forward, and, by the light
of my fire-brand, perceived it to be*a monstrous
he-goat, lying on the ground, gasping for life,
and dying of mere old age. At first I stirred
him, thinking to drive him out, and the poor
ancient creature strove to get upon his feet, but
was not able; so.I even let him lie still. I now,
looked round me, and found the place but small
and shapeless. At the further end of it Iper-
eeived a sort of an entrance, yet so low as nmst
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to
it; so, having no candle, I suspended 'my enter,
prize till the next day, and then I came provided
with two large ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and feet through
this strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I
think about twenty feet; but surely never mor-
tal saw such a glorious sight before! The roof
and walls of this cave reflected a hundred thou-
sand lights to me from my two candU-s, as though
they were indented with shining gold, precious
stones, or diamonds. The floor was dry and
level, and hud a kind of gravel upon it; no nau-
seous or venomous creatures were to be seen
there, neither was there any damp or wet
about it. I could find no fault but in the en-
{rance; and I began to think that even this
might be *ery necessary for my defence, and
therefore resolved to make it my mdst principal
magazine.
I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle,
planted in the manner of cannon. From a bar*
rel of gun-powder which I took up out of the
sea, I brought away about sixty pounds of good
J53 ifrJlVfcNTURES OF
powder, which were not damaged; and these,
with a great quantity of lead for bullets, I re-
moved from my castle to this retreat, now forti-
fied both by art and nature.
Rut I must not forget the old goat who caused
ruy late dreadful amazement. The poor creature
died the day after my discovery; and it heing
very difficult to drag him out, I buried him in
the cave.
I was now in the twenty-third yeqr of my
reign, and my thoughts were much easier than
formerly. By this time my parrot had learned
to speak English, and pronounce his words very
articulately and plainly; so that for many hours
we used to chat together after a very iUmiliar
manner, and he lived with me no less than
twenty-six years. My dog, who was nineteen
years old, sixteen of which he lived with me,
died of mere old age. As for my* cats, they
multiplied so fast, that I was forced to drive
them into the woods, except two or three which
became my particular favourites.
Besides these, I continually kept two or three
household kids about me, whom I learned to feed
out of my hand ; and two more parrots, who could
talk indifferently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so well as the first; all which made my abode
very agreeable. .
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, in the southern solstice,
and the particular time of my harvest, which re-
quired my attendance in the fields: when going
out pretty early one morning, before it was day-
light, there appeared to me, from the sea-sho»,
a flaming light, about two miles from me, at the
east end of the island, where I had observed
some savages had been before, not on the other
side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my
side of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulied up the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place I put myself in a pos-
ture of defence, loading my muskets and pistols;
and committing myself to God's protection, I
resolved to defend myself till my last breath,
hours after, impatient for intelligence, I set,
my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place; and' then pulling the ladder up
after me, ascended to the top, where laying my-
self on my belly, with my perspective glass, I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a fire, eating, as I supposed, human flesh,
with their two canoes hauled on shore, waiting
for the flood to carry them off again.
You cannot easily express the consternation I
was in at this sight, especially seeing them so
near me; but when I perceived their coming must
always be with the current of the ebh, I became
more easy in my thoughts, being very fully con-
vinced, that I might go abroad with security all
the time of flood, if they were not before landed.
And indeed this proved just as I imagined; for
no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle
away, but the tide made north-west. Before they
went off, they /lanced, making ridiculous pos-
tures and gestures, for above an hour, all stark
naked. When I saw them gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and placing a couple of pis-
tols in my belt, with my great sword hanging by
my side, I went to the hill, where at first I made
i discovery of these cannibals, and then saw
there hart been three canoes more of these sa-
vages on shore at that place, which, with the rest,
were making over to the main land.
But nothing conld be more horrible, when going
to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones, and
other mangled parts of human bedies, appeared
in my sight; and so fired was I with indignation,
that I was fully resolved to be revenged' on the
firat that came there, though I should lose mv fife
in the execution. It then appeared to me, that
the visits they made to rtiis island were not very
frequent, hut still I was uneasy, and had dismal
apprehensions of their surprising me unawares;
nor dared I fire a gun on that side of the island
where they used to appear, lest, taking the alarm,
the savages might return with many hundreds of
canoes, and then God knows in what manner I
should have made my end. Thus was I a year
or more before 1 saw any of these devouring can-
nibals again.
But the following accident, which demands
attention, for a while eluded the force of my
thoughts in revenging myself on those heathens.
On the 16th of May, (according to my wooden
calendar) the wind blew exceedingly hard, ac-
companied with abundance of lightning and thun
der all day, and was succeeded by a very stormy
night. The seeming anger of the heavens made
we have recourse to my bible: whilst I was seri-
ously pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
with the noise of a gun, which I conjectured was
fired upon the ocean. Such an unusual sound
made me start up in a minute, when, with my
ladder, ascending the mountain as before, that
very moment a flash of fire presaged the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and
found it was from that r>art of the sea where the
current drove me away.
I could not but then think, that this must
be a ship in distress, and that these were the
melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great indeed was my sorrow upon this occasion;
but my labours to assist them proved altogether
vain and fruitless. However, I brought together
all the dry wood that was at hand, and making
a pretty large pile, set it on fire, on the hill. I
was certain they plainly perceived it, by their
firing another gun as soon as it began to blaze,
and after that several more from the same quarter.
All night long I kept up my fire: and when the
air cleared up, I perceived something a great way
at sea, directly east, but could not distinguish
what it was, even with my glass, the weather
was so very foggy out at sea. However, keep-
ing my eyes directly fixed upon it, and perceiv-
ing it not to stir, I presently concluded it must
be a ship at anchor: and so eager was I to be
satisfied, that, taking up my gun, I went to the
south-east part of the bland, to the same rocks
where I had been formerly drove away by the
current; in which time the weather being per-
fectly cleared up, to my great sorrow I per-
ceived the wreck of a ship cast away upon those
hidden rocks I found when I was out with my
boat: and which by making an eddy, were the
occasion of my preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's
ruin; for undoubtedly this ship had been driven
on them in the night, the wind blowing strong at
E. N. E. Had they perceived the island, as I
now guessed they had not, instead of having
fired their guns for help, they would rather have
ventured in their boat, and saved themselves that
way. I then thought, that perhaps they had
done so, upon seeing my fire, and were cast
away in the attempt; for I perceived no boat fn
the ship.
But then again I imagined, that perhaps they
r
f
had another vessel in company, which, upon sig-
nal, -saved their lives, and took the boat up; or
that the boat might./be :• driven into the main
ocean, where these poor creatures might be in
the most miserable condition.
„.. When I considered seriously every thing con-
cerning this wreck, and could perceive no room
to suppose any of them saved, I cannot explain,
by any possible force of words, what longings
my soul fe,.t, often breaking out in this manner:
O that there had been but two or three, nay,
even one person saved, that we might have lived
together, conversed' with, and comforted one
another.
, I had the affliction, some time after, to sen
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at
the end" of the island next the shipwreck; there
was nothing'on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a
pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt; but no particular mark to guess what
'nation he, was of.
And now the calmness.of the sea tempted me
to vo'iture out in my boat to this wreck,^ot
. only to get souiething necessary out of the sh^ff
but I thought 3,>me living creature might be on
. board, whose life I might preserve. This had
lif /Jc5 fr Tttlart 2r, C" ,

such an influence upon my mind, that immedi-
ately I went home, and prepared every thing ne-
cessary for the voyage, and carrying on board
my boat provisions of all sorts, with a good
quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass;
putting off, I paddled the canoe along the shore,
till I came at last to the north-east part of the
island, from whence I was to launch into the
ocean: but here the current ran so violently, and
appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me, foreseeing that if I was driven into any of
these currents, I might be . carried not only out
of the reach or sight of the island, but even ine-
vitably lostin the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek
on the sborCj where, stepping out, I sat me
down en a rising hill, very pensive and thought-
ful. I then perceived that the tide was turned,
. and the flood came on, which made it impracti-
cable for me to go out for so many hours,
i That night I .reposed myself in my canot, co-
vered with my watch-coat instead of a blanket.
I set out with the first of, the tide full north, till
I felt the benefit of the current, which carried
me at a great rate eastward, yet not with such
P2
impetuosity as before; so that in two hours tirot
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me a
most melancholy sight.
It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by its build-
ing, stuck fast between two rocks; her stern and
quarter beaten to pieces by the sea, her main-
mast and foremast were brought off by the board;
•that is, broken short off. As I approached
nearer, I perceived a dog on board, who seeing
roe, yelped and cried; and no sooner did I call
to him, but the poor creature jumped into the
sea, out of which I took him up, almost fa-
mished with hunger and thirst; so that, when I
gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf
could devour it more greedily; and he drank to
that degree of fresh water, that he would have
burst himself, had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: also I perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to the
seamen, two-of which I got into my boat, without
examining what was in them.
I could not otherwise conclude, but that the
ship must have abundance of wealth on board, by
what I afterwards found in the chests; but what
had become of the rest of the sailors, I could
not tell; and all the riches of the ship signified
nothing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons of liquor, which, with some
labour, I got into my boat. In a cabin were se-
veral muskets, which I let remain there; but
took away with me a great powder-horn, with
about four pounds of powder in it. I took also
a fire-shovel and tongs, two brass kettles, a cop-
per pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron, all
which were extremely necessary. And so, with
this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I came
away, the tide serving tor that purpose; and the
same evening 1 attained the island, after the
greatest toil and fatigue imaginable. .
That night I reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next looming to harbour what
I had gotten in .my; 'flew-found subterraneous
grotto, aud not carry my cargo home to my an-
cient castle. Having refreshed myself, and got
all my effects on shore, I next proceeded to exa-
mine the particulars. ',-.
At the opening of the chest, several things ap-
peared very useful to me: for instance, there
were several good shirts, exceedingly welcome to
r 3
me, and about a dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs and coloured neck-cloths; and in
the till I found three bags of pieces of eight,
about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which, I believe, might weigh nearly
apound.
In the other chest, which I guessed to belong
to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances
that attended it, I only found some clothes of
very little value, except about two pounds of fine
glazed powder, in three flasks, kept, as I believe,
for charging their fowling-pieces on any occasion;
so that, on the whole, I had no great advantage
by this voyage.
I also found in the seamen's chests about fifty
pieces of eight in rials, but no gold; I therefore
concluded that what I took from the first be-
longed to an officer, the latter appearing to have
a much inferior person for its owner. However,
despicable as the money seemed, I likewise
lodged it in my cave, laying it up securely, as I •
did the rest of my cargo; and after I had done
all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing or
paddling her along, till I came to my old har-
hour, where I enefully laid her up, and so made
thibest of my way to my castle.
When I arrived there, every thing seemed safe
andquie . And now my only business was tore-
pose myself after my wonted manner, and take
care of my domestic affairs. But though I might
have li 'ed very comfortably, wanting for nothing
absolutely needful, yet still I was more vigilant
than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did, it was to the eastern
part of the island, where, I was well assured, the
savages never came, and where I might not be
troubled to carry that heavy load of weapons for
my defence, w hich I was obliged to do if I went
the other waj.
Two pars did * live in this anxious condition,
in all w hit h tune, contrary to my former resolu-
tions, my head was filled with nothing but pro-
jects and designs how I might escape from this
island; and so much weie my wandering thoughts
bent on a rambling disposition, that, had I the
same boat that I went from Sallee in, I should
have ventured once mo* to the uncertainty of
the raging ocean. ^
I cannot, however, but consider myself as one
of the unhappy persons, who make themselves
wretched by their dissatisfaction with the sta-
tions which God has placed them in; for, not to
take a view of my primitive condition, and my
father's excellent advice, (the going contrary to
which was, as I may say, my original sin) the
following mistakes of flie same nature certainly
bad been the means of my present unhappy sta-
tion. What business had I to leave a stitled
fortune and well-stocked plantation, improving
and increasing, where, by this time, I might have
been .worth one hundred thousand moidores, to
turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch negroes,
when time and patience would have so much en-
larged my stock at home, as to be able to employ
those whose more immediate business it was to
fetch them home, even to my own door.
But as this is commonly the fate of young
heads, so a serious reflexion upon the folly of its
consequences attends the exercise of future years,
when the dear-bought experience o£ time teaches
repentance. /
Thus it was with me: but notwithstanding, the
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it seemed to check all the dictates of
reason ar.d philosophy. And now, to usher in
my kii.d reader to tke remaining part of my rek-i
ties, I flatter myself it will not be taken amiss
to give him an account of my first conceptions of
the manner of escaping, and upon what founda-
tion I laid my foolish schemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voy-
age to the ship, my frigate laid up and secured,
as usual, and my condition the same as before,
exeept being richer, though I had as little occa-
Mom for riches as the Indians of Peru had for gold
before the cruel Spaniards came among them!
One night in March, being the rainy seasons in
the four-and-twentietb year of my solitude, I lay
down to sleep, very well in health, without dis-
temper, pain, or uncommon uneasiness, either of
body or mind, yet notwithstanding I could not
compose myself to sleep all the night lon». AH
this tedious while, it is impossible to express what
innumerable thoughts came into my head. I
traced the whole history of my life, from my ut-
most remembrance of things, till I came to this
island; and then proceeded to examine every ac-
tion and passage that had occurred since I had
taken possession of my kingdom.
In my reflexions upon the latter, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the be-
ginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear;
and concern, since I had discovered the prmt of
a foot in the sand; that while I continued with-
out apprehension, I was incapable of feeling the
dread and terror I now suffered. How thankful
rather ought I to have been for the knowledge of
my danger, since the greatest happiness one can
be possessed of, is to have sufficient time to pro-
vide against it! How stupendous is the good-
ness of Providence, which sets such narrow
bounds to the sight and knowledge of human na-
ture, that while men walk in the midst of so many
dangers,. they are kept serene and calm, by hav-
ing the event of things hid from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround them, till perhaps they are dissipated
and vanish away!
When I came more particularly to consider of
the real danger I had for so many years -escaped;
how I had walked about in the greatest security
and tranquillity, at the time, perhaps, when even
nothing but the brow of the hill, a great tree, or
the common approach of night, had interposed
between me and the destructive hands of the can-
nibals, who would devour me with as good an
appetite as I would a pigeon or a curlieu; surely
all thi£, I say, could not but make me sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, whose singular
protection I acknowledged with the greatest hu-
mility, and without which I must inevitably have
fallen into the cruel hands of those devourers.
I next proceeded to consider fhe wretched na-
ture of these destroying savages, by seeming,
though with great reverence, to enquire why God
should give up any of his creatures to such inhu-
manity, even to brutality itself, to devour its,own
kind? But as this was rather matter of obstruse
speculation, aud as my miserable situation made
me think this of mine the most uncomfortable
situation hi the world, I then began rather to
enquire what part of the world these wretches'
lived in; how far off the coast was from whence
they came; why they ventured over so far from
home; what kind of boats conveyed them hither;
aud why I could not order myself and my busi-
uess so, that I might be as able to attain their
country as they were to comeinto-my kingdom?
But, thought I, how shall I manage myself
when I come hither? What will become of we
if I fall into the hands of the savages, or hew
shall I escape from them if they make an attempt
upon me; and supposing I should not fall into
their power, what shall I do for provision, or
which way shall I bend my course? These
counter-thoughts threw me into the greatest horror
and confusion imaginable; but then, I still looked
upon my present condition to be the most miser-
able that possibly could be, and that nothing
could be worse, except death. For, thought I,
could I but attain the shore of the main, I might
perhaps meet with some relief, or coast it along,
as I did with my boy Xnry on the African shore,
till I came to some inhabited country, where I
might meet with some relief, or fall in with some
Christian ship that might take me in; and if I
failed, why then- I could but meet with death,
which would put an end to all my miseries.
These thoughts, I must confess, were the fruits
of a distempered mind; an impatient temper
made me desperate, as it were, by the long con-
tinuance of the troubles and the disappointments
I had met with in the wreck, where I hoped to
have found some living person to speak to, by
whom I might have known in what place I was,
and of the probable means of my deliverance.
Thus, while my thoughts were agitated, my re-
signation to the will of heaven was entirely sus-
pended; so that I had no power to fix my mind
to any thing, but to the project of a voyage to
tbe mainland. And, indeed, so much was I en-
flamed on this account, that it set my blood into
a 'ferment, and my pulse beat a» high as though
I had been in a fever, till nature being, as it were,
fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of
it, made me submit myself to a silent repose.
About a year and a half after this, when I
rose one morning, I saw no less than five canoes,
full of savages, land on my side of the island. I
retreated into my castle, ready to die with terror.
t After a little time, however, hearing no sound
of their approach, I loaded all my muskets, and
clambered to the top of my hill, with my per-
spective glass and a gun, taking care to stand so
that I could not be seen from the shore,
The savages had kindled a great fire, around,
which they danced with frantic gestures; they
tjien dragged two poor wretches out of a.canoe,
one of whom they immediately killed, and began
to cut him in pieces, while the other victim was
left standing by himself, till they should be ready
for him. The poor creature seeing himself at
liberty for a moment, suddenly started away, and
ran with incredible swiftnes directly towards me.
, I was terribly frightened, I must confess,
expecting the whole body would be instantly in
Q
pursuit of him; but recovered my courage a little
when I saw that only three followed, and that he
greatly outstrip! them in the speed of his run*
ning.
There was between my castle and them a
creek, where I landed my cargoes when I first
came to the island, and there I thought the poor
fellow would assuredly be taken; but he made
nothing of swimming over it, though the tide
tvas up, and having reached the opposite shore,
he ran on still faster than before. Two of his
pursuers plunged into the water, but the third,
I suppose, could not swim; for he turned round
and walked back to his companions.
I could no longer forbear making an attempt
to save the life of him who fled; and with a gun
in each hand, I ran swiftly down the hill, and
rushing upon the foremost pursuer, knocked him
down with the butt end of my musket.
I was determined not, if I could avoid it, tt>!
fire, lest the rest of the savages should hear the
report of the gun, and be attracted to the spot.
The other pursuer stopped and stood still at a
little distance, and I perceived he was preparing,
his bow-and-arrow to shoot me; then I was
obliged to fire, and I killed him on the spot The,
poor savage, though he saw both his enemies
fallen, yet was so affrighted with the noise and
fire of my piece, that it was with difficulty I
could prevail on him to approach me. By de-
grees he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down
at every ten or twelve steps, and having come
close up to me, he kissed the ground) and put
my foot upon his head.
I caressed him, and encouraged him all I
could; but there was more work to be done, far
the savage whom I had knocked down was be-
ginning to recover. I pointed and made signs of
his recovery to my savage, as I may call him,
upon which he spoke sorrTe words: and though I
did not understand them, yet they were pleasant
tc- hear, being the first sound of human voice
(my own exeepted) that I had heard for twenty-
five years', My savage, finding J did not under-
stand his language, made signs to entreat I would
lend him the sword which hung naked in mv belt.
. I gave it into hjs hand, and with one blow he cut
off his enemy's head, which he laid at my feet
with abundance of trinmphant gestures,
he went uj> to the other Indian, and w$s
beyond description to think how fjfj
him so far off. He turned him first on one side,
then on the other, and examined the wound the
bullet had made in his breast. I called him away
to bury the savages; and he, with uncommon
dexterity, dug with his hands a large hole in the
ground, into which he put both savages, and
covered them carefully up, that their companion*
might not ,find them.
I then took him home with me, and having
given him bread and raisins, with some water,
which he seemed greatly to stand in need of, I
pointed him to some rice-straw, on which he laid
down to sleep.
I then went up the hill, and saw through my
glass that his enemies were getting into their ca-
noes. Whether alarmed by the report of :the
gun or the absence of their comrades, I knew
not, but they rowed away to sea, without making
any search after their lost companions.
My savage was a handsome youth, about twenty-
six years of age; the colour of his skin was taw-
tiey; his hair was long, not woolly and curly, like
the African negroes; he had fine eyes, a good
mouth, and teeth as white as ivory. The quali-
ties of his mind surpassed the perfection of his
body. He was the most submissive, gentle, and
affectionate creature that ever lived. I made him
clothes of goat-skin, which he found very un-
comfortable at first, having gone naked all hi$
life: their use soon, however, became familiar,
and even pleasant to him. I called hirn by the
name of FKIDAY, for it was on that day that I
saved his life. I taught him to call me master,
to say yes and no ; and, by degrees, he learnecf my
language so perfectly, that he understood every
thing I said to him, and could hold an intelligible
conversation with me.
He informed me, that his nation being at war
with another nation, he was taken prisoner, and
brought to the island to. be devoured by his ene-
mies from whom I had rescued him; and on this
occasion the following dialogue passed between
us :—I asked him whether his nation were ever
conquerors in battle? He smiled, and said
proudly, "My nation always fight most better."
"How," said I, "came you then to be taken pri-
soner?"
FRIDAY—" My nation beat much for all that;
but they, more than my nation in place where
me was, they take one, two, and three, and me!
My nation beat much in yonder place, where me
no was; there my nation take one, two, grpat
thousand!"
<* Q3 ,"
,
MASTER—" Well, Friday; and does your
nation also eat the men they take in battle?
FRIDAY—" Yes."
MASTER—" Where do they carry them?"
FRIDAY—" Other place; many place."
MASTER—" Do they ever come hither?"
FRIDAY—"Yes, and other else place."
MASTER—" Have you been here with them'?"
: PRIDAY—" Yes, I been here, there."
He pointed to the side of the island where I
saw the print of the foot, and when I carried
him thither, he shewed me the place where they
had once destroyed twenty me», two women, and
one child, all prisoners of war. He could not
count tv/enty in English, but numbered them by
laying so many stones in a row. It was distress-
ing to me to think, that a creature so intelligent,
and of so good and amiable a disposition, should
delight in such horrid repasts. I took the greatest
pains to convince him of the depravity of such,
an abominable custom; and after being with me
some time he seemed to entertain as great a dis-
gust of the practice as I could wish.
The simplicity, tenderness, and unfeigned ho-
nesty of Friday's disposition, endeared him to me
more and more every day; and on his side, he
loved me more than he had ever loved any thing
before. He was handy, alert, and useful; and
so particularly diligent and merry, :hat my life
became not merely easy, but pleasant also.
Although Friday had seen me kill the savage
that was his pursuer, he had no idea yet how it
was done. One day, having loaded my gun pri-
vately, I took him out with me into the woods;
and seeing as we passed along a she-goat with two
kids lying by her, I caught Friday by the arm,
bid him stand still, and levelling my piece, shot
cue «f the kids. The poor fellow looked so
amazed, I thought he would have sunk on the
ground. He did not perceive that I had killed
the kid, but tore open his jacket to look (-•• his
own wounds. He then fell on his knees, entreat-
ing I would spare liis life! I hushed al luni,
and shewed him the kid; and while he was look-
ing at it with extreme wonder and emotion, t re-
loaded my gun, and calling him to look at a fly ing
bird, 1 instantly b< ought it to the ground.
His astonishment at this engine of destruction
.did not wear off for a long time; and when he
was left alone beside the gi.n, he used ro kneel
down, and beseech it not to kill him. After we
became more intimately acquainted I explained
83
the mystery, and taught him how to shoot; I
likewise gave him a knife, and made him a belt
to carry his hatchet in, all of which delighted
him wonderfully.
Being able to converse with Friday on such
equal terms, I related my history to him. It was
particularly gratifying to me to describe to him
the manners and customs of my native country,
his remarks abounded with so much good sense
and honest feeling.
One day when I had been speaking of the
manner in which I came to that island, I carried
him to the place where the wreck of the boat
from which I had so miraculously escaped still
lay on the sand. Friday stood musing by, it
some time, and at length said, " M[e see such
boat like come to place at my nation, full of
white mans; and we, my nation, save white mans
from drown."
On questioning him further, I learned that
there were seventeen white men in the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he
added with some warmth, "We save the white
mans from drown." Then I presently asked him
if there were any white mans, as he called them,
>•,:.,->.^.'f,
u&. June 4. -ifioj, by jfobartkC0,
in the boat?" Yes, (he said) the boat full of
white mans." I asked him how many? He told
upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then
what became of them? He answered, "They
iive-"xthey dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I
presently imagined that these might be the meii
belonging to the ship that was cast away insight
of my island, as I now call it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her
inevitably lost, 'had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. Upon this, I enquired of
him more particularly what was become of them?
He assured me they still lived there; that they
had been there about four years; that the sa-
vages let them alone, and gave them victuals. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill
them and eat them? He said, " No : they make
brother with them." That is, as I understood
him, a truce. And then he added, "They n.6
eat mans, but' when they make the war ti«ht.*
That is to say, they never eat any men, but such
as come to fight with them, and are taken in
battle.
• • 'ft was after this some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, from whence, as I have said, I had
in a clear day discovered the main, or continent
of America; Friday, the weather being very se-
rene, looked very earnestly towards the main-
land, and, in a kind of surprise, began jumping
and dancing, and called out to me, for I was at
some distance from him. I asked him what was
the matter? "Oh joy—oh glad! (said he).
There see my country—there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and
his countenance discovered a strange eagerness,
as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again; and this observation of mine put a great
many thoughts into my head, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man, Friday, as I
was before; and I made no doubt but that if
Friday could get back to his own nation again,
he would forget all his obligations to me, and
would be forward enough to give his countrymen
an account of me, and come back perhaps with
a hundred or two of them and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used tp
be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war. But I wronged the poor honest
treature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards.
However, as my jealousy increased and held
ine some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
aud not so familiar and kind to him as before; in
this I was certainly in the wrong too, the honest,
grateful creature having no thought about him
but what consisted of the best principles, both
as a religions Christian, and as a grateful friend,
which appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
Sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts which I
suspected were in him: but I found every thing
he said was so honest and so innocent, that I
could trace nothing to nourish my suspicion: and,
in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last
entirely his own again; nor did he in the least
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could
not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the
weather being hazy at sea, so that we could not
see the continent, I called to him, and said, Fri-
day, do not you wish yourself in your own conn-
try, your own nation' "Yes, (he said) I be
cuch oh glad to be at KJ ovm nation !'* What
would you do there, said I: would you turn wild
again—eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as
you were before? He looked full of concern;
and, shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God,
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no
eat man again."
Why then, said I to him, they will kill you.
lie looked grave at that, and then said, "Np,
they no kill me: they willing love learn." He
meant by this they would be willing to learn.
He added, "They learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat."
Then I asked him if he would go back to
them? He smiled at that, and told me he could
not swim so far, I told him I would make a cauoe
for him. He told me he would go, if I would
go with him. I go, said 1: why they will eat
me if I come there!" No, no; (says he) me
. make they no eat you—me make they much love
you." He meant, he would tell them how I had
killed his enemies, and .saved his life; and so he
would make them love me. T1i?u be told me, as
veil as h£ could, how kind they were to the se;
venteen white men, or.bearded men, as he caliet}
them, who came to shore there in distress. ,
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to
venture over, and see if I could possibly join
Vith these bearded men, who, I made no doubt,
were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but,
if I could, we might find some method to escape
from thencei being upon the continent, and a
good company together, better than I could from
an island forty miles off the shore, and alone
without help. So,, after some days, I took Friday
to work againi, by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to go back to his
own nation; and accordingly I carried him to
my frigate, which lay on the other side of the
island; and, having cleared it of water, (for I
always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it
out, shewed it him, and we both went into it.
1 found he was a most dexterous fellow at ma-
naging it, and would make it go almost as swift
again as I coukl. So when he was in, I said
to him, Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your
nation? He looked very dull at my saying so,
which, it seems, was because he thought the
boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had
a bigger; so the next day I went to the place
where the first boat lay which I had made, but
which I could ,not get into the water. He said
R
that was big enough; but then, as I had takefi
no care of it, and it had lain two or three and'
twenty years, the sun had split and dried it, that
it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, such a boat would do very
•well, and would carry much enough vittle, drink,
bread; that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed
upon my' design of going over with him to the
continent, that I told hirja we would go and make
one as big as that, and he should go home in it.
He answered not one word, but looked very grave
and sad. I asked him what was the matter with,
him? He asked me again thus: " Why you
angry mad with Friday—what me done?" I
asked him what he meant'? I told him I was not
angry with him at all. "No angry, no angry I
(said he, repeating the words several times) Why
ieud Friday h me again to my nation?" Why,
said I, Friday, did not you say you wished you
•were there "Yes, yes, (said he) wish be both
tii.-re. No wish Friday there, no master there!"'
ID a word, he would not think of going there
witWut me. I go there, Friday! said I. What
shall I do there 1 He turned very quick upon
me at this. "You do great deal much good:
(«aid he) you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God,
and live new life!" Alas, Friday, said I, thou
knowest not what thou sayest! I am but an ig-
norant man myself. "Yes, yes; (said he) you
teachee Jne good—you teachee them good." No,
no, Friday, said I, you shall go without me:
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before.
He looked confused again at that word; and
running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it ]up hastily, and gives it to me.
What must I do with this? said I to him. "You
take kill Friday!" said he. What must I kill
you for? said I again. He returns very quick,
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday—no send Friday away!" This he spoke
so earnestly, that I saw tears sland in his eyes.
Ill a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost af-
fection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
him, that I told him then, and often after, that
I wou!4 never send him away from me, if he
were willing to stay with me.
J still found a strong inclination to attempt my
escape, founded on the supposition that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and, there-
fore, without any more delay, I went to work
R 9
with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell,
and make a large periagua, or canoe, to under-
a
take the voyage. There were trees enough in
the island to have huilt a little fleet, not of pe-
riaguas and canoes, but even of good large ves.
sels. But the main thing I looked at was, to get
cue so near the water, that we might launch it
when it was made, to avoid the mistake I com-
»
mitted at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found
he knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was
very like the tree we call fustic, or between that
and the Nicaragua-wood; for it was much of the
same colour and smell. Friday was for burning
the hollow, or cavity, of this tree out, to make
it into a boat; but I shewed him how rather to
cut it out with tools, which, after I had shewed
him how to use, he did very handily: and in
about a month's hard labour we finished it, and
made it very handsome; especially when with our
axes, which I shewed him how to handle, we cut
and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a
fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch

by inch, upon great rollers, into the water: but
when she was in, she would have carried twenty
men with ease.
When she was in the water, and though she
was so big, it amazed me to see with what dexte-
rity and how swift my man Friday could manage
her, turn her and paddle her along; so I asked
him if we might venture over in her? "Yes;
(he said) me venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had a
farther design that he knew nothing of; and that
was to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with
an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight
young cedar tree, which I found near the place,
and of which there was great plenty in the
island; and I set Friday at work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to shape and order it.
But as to the sail, that was my particular > are.
I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails, enough; but as I had had them IK-.v twenty-
six years by me, and had not been very careful to
preserve them, not imagining I should ever have
'this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten, and indeed most of them
were so. However, I found two pieces which
R 3
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to
work, and with a g: eat deal of pains, and awkward
tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly
thing; hke what we call in England ,a. shoulder
of mutton sail, togo with a boom at bottom, and
a little short sorit at the top, such as usually our
ship's long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage; because it was such a one
as I used in the boat in which I made my escape
from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story. I was near two mouths performing this
last work, viz. rigging and fitting my mast and
sails; for I finished them very complete, making
a small stay, and a sail, or forepil, to it, to
assist, it we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her, to steer with: and though I was but a
bungljng shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness,
and even necessity of such a thing, I applied
myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass, though, considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, 1 think
it cost me almost as much labour as making tire
boat.
After all this wag done, I had my map Friday
to teach as to what belonged tor the navigation of
my boat; for, tiioi;, Ii he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of what be-
longed to a sail and a rudder; aud was the most
amazed when he saw me work the boat too and
again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw
this, he stood like one astonished and amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an expert
sailor, except that as to the compass—I could
make him understand very little of that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy wea-
ther, and seldom, or never, any fogs in those
parts, there was the less occasion for a compass,
seeing the stars were always to be seen by night
and the shore by day, except in the raining sea-
sons, and then nobody cared to go abroad, either,
by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my. captivity in this place; though the
three last years I had this creature with me ought
rather to be left out of the account, my habita-
tion being quite of another kind than in all the.
rest of my time. I ,kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thankfulness to God
for his mercies, as at first; and if I had'such
cause of acknowledgment at first; I had much
more so now, having such additional testimonies
of the care of Providence over me, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression
upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in
this place. However, I went on with my hus-
bandry, digging, planting, fencing, as usual. I
gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessarything as before.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon
me, when I kept more withindoors than at other
times; so I had stowed our new vessel us secure
as we eould, bringing her up into .the creek;
wGere, as I said in the beginning, I landed my
rafts from'the ship, and hauling her up to the
shore at high water-mark. , I made my man Fri-
day dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
her, and just deep enough to give her water to
float in; and thenj when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep
the' water out; so she lay dry, as to the tide from
the sea, and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as
well thatched as a house; and thus we waited
for the mouths of November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled sen son began to come in, as
the thought of my design returned with the fair
weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage;
and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our
voyage; and intended in a week or fortnight's
time to open the dock and launch out our boat.
I \vas busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when J called to Friday, and bid him go
to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle
or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he
came running back, and flew over my outer wall,
or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or
the steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to speak to him, he cried out to me, "Oh
master, master! Oh sorrow! Oh bad!" What's
matter, Friday? said I. "Oh, yonder, there,
(said he) one, two, three canoe—one, two, three!"
By thjs way of speaking, I concluded there
•pere six; but on enquiry, I found there were
tat thre«. Well, Friday, said I, do not be
frighted. So I heartened him up as well as I'
could. However, I saw the poor fellow was
most terriby scared : for nothing run in his head,
but that they were come to look for him, and
ivould cut him in pjeces; and the poor fellow
trembled so, that I scarcely knew what to do
with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would kill me as well as him. But
Friday, said I, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" Me shoot; (said he)
but there come many great number!'' No matter
for that, said I again, our guns will frighten them
that we do not kill. So I asked him whether, if
I resolved to defend him, he would defend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bid him? Ho
said, "Me die when you bid me, master!"
I then went and fetched a good dram of rum,
and gave him ; for I had been so very careful of my
rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan-shot, as big aj small,pistol-bullets.
Then I took four muskets, and loaded therii with
two slugs and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each.
I huitg toy great sword, as usual, naked by my
side, ami gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective-glass, and went np to the side of the
hill to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes.
I observed also, that they were landed not where
they had done when Friday made his escape; but
nearer to uiy creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to
the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhu-
man errand these wretches came about, filled me
with such indignation, that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go
down to them and kill them all, and asked him
if he would stand by me? He had now gotten
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised
with the dram 1 had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told tie as before that he would die
when I bid him.
In this fit of fury, I divided the arms which I
charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol and tl^
other three myself: and in this posture w£
marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in
my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag, wilh
more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I
charged him to keep close behind me, and not to
stir or shoot, or do any thing till I bid him; and
in the meantime not to speak a word. In this
posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek, as to
get into the wood; so that I might come within
shot of them before I should be discovered,
which, I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, 1 began to abate my resolu-
tion. I do not mean that 1 entertained any fear
of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them;
nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much
less what necessity I was in to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done nor intended me any wrong. These things
were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as I went, that I resolved I would only go
and place myself near them, that I might observe
their baibarous feast, and that I would act then
as God should direct; but that unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I
knew ot', I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and
with all possible weariness and silence, Friday
following close at my heels. I marched till I
came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them; only that one corner of the
wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and shewing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the weed, I bid him
go to the tree and bring me word if be could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so,
and came immediately back to me, and tokt me
they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, and that a prisoner lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, which
he said they would kill, and fired all the very soul
within me, when he told me it was not one of
their nation, but one of the bearded men who
had come to their country in the boat.
Upon hearing this my soul was ready,to sink
within me; when, ascending up into a tree, I
saw plainly by my glass a white man', -who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
feet tied with flags, or things resembling rushes,
s
being covered with clothes, and seemed to be a
European.
From the tree where I took this prospect-I
perceived another tree and a thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than where I
was, which, by taking a small circle round, I
might come at undiscovered, and then I should
be within half a shot of these devourers. And
this consideration alone, to be more perfectly
revenged upon them, made me withhold my pas-
sion, though I was enraged to the highest degree
imaginable; when, going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all
the way till I came to the other tree; and then
I ascended a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance from them, and there I
had a full view of these creatures, and I could
perceive aH their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me
not to lose a moment's time. There were no
less than nineteen of these dreadful wretches set
upon' the ground, closely huddled together, ex-
pressing all the delight- imaginable at so bar-
barous an entertainment; and they had just sent
the other two to murder this unhappy Christian,
• and bring Iiim perhaps limb by limb to their lire;
for they were just then going to untie the bands
from his feet, in order for death, as fetters are
knocked off from the feet of malefactors, before
they go to the place of execution. Herenpon,
immediately turning to my man, now, Friday,
said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing, but do
exactly as you see me do: all which he promised
he would perform. I set down one of my mu&-
kets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and
Friday did the same by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him to do the like. Are you ready 1 said I.
"Yes, master," said he. Why then fire at them,
said I; and that very moment I fired also.
For my part, I killed one and wounded two;
but my man Friday taking his aim much better
than I, killed two and wounded three. They
were in a dreadful consternation at such an un»
expected disaster; and those who had yet es,-
caped our penetrating shot, immediately jumped
upon their feet; but were in such confusion,
that they knew not which way to run or look, not
knowing from whence their destruction came. We
then threw down our pieces and took up others,
giving a second dreadful volley; but as they were
loaded only with swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
s2
we perceived only two of them fall; but so many
were wounded, that they ran yelling and scream-
ing about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
said I, lay down your piece and take up the
musket, and follow me.
lie did so with great courage; when, shewing
ourselves to the savages, we gave a shout, and
made directly to the poor victim, -who would
Lave been sacrificed/had not our first fire obliged
the butchers, with three others, to jump into
the canoe. By nry order, Friday fired at them,
at which shot I thought he had killed them all,
by reason of their falling to the bottom of the
boat; however, he killed two, and mprtally
wouhded a third.
• In the meantime I cut the flags, that tied the
hands and feet of the poor creature; and lifting
him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue
what he was? He answered me in latin, "Chris-
tianus." But so very weak and faint, that he
could scarcely stand or speak. Immediately I
gave him a dram and a piece of bread to cherish
him, and asked him what countryman he was 1
He said, "Espanola," and then uttered all the
thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Senor, said I, with as much Spanish as I was
J
.
•'-
master of, let us talk afterwards, but fight now:
here, take this sword and pistol, and do what
you can. And indeed he did so with such cou-
rage and intrepidity, that he cut two of them to
pieces in an instant, the savages not having the
power to fly for their lives.
I ordered Friday to run for those pieces we
had left at the tree, which he brought to me
. with great swiftness; and then I gave him my
musket, while I loaded the rest.
, But now there happened a fierce encounter
between the Spaniard and one of the savapcs,
who had made at him with one of their wooden
swords; and though the former was as brave as
could be expected, having twice wounded his
enemy in the head; yet, being faint, the Indian
had thrown him upon the ground, and was wrest-
ing my sword out of his hand, which the Spa-
niard vary wisely quitting, drew out his pistol
and shot him through the body, before I coultl
come near him, though I was running to his as-
sistance. As to Friday, he pursued the flying
•wretches with his hatchet, di•; etching three;
but the rest were too nimble for him. Hie Spa-
niard, taking up one .of the fowling-pieces,
Bounded two, whom, running into the weocl,
S3
Friday pursued and killed one; but the other,,
notwithstanding his wounds, plunged himself
into the sea, and swam to those who were left in.
the canoe, which, with one wounded, were all.
that escaped out of twenty-one.
The account is as follows:
Killed at .)he first shot from the tree- • • • 3
At file second shot 2
By Friday, in the boat 2
Ditto, of those first wounded • • 2
By the Spaniard 3
Killed or died ,of their wounds 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded,
if not sjain 4
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
pursuing them : and indeed I was no iess anxious
about their escape, lest, after the news had been
carried to their people, they should return in
multitudes to destroy us. So, being resolved to
pursue them, I jumped into one of their canoes,
and bid Friduy follow me; but no sooner was I
in, when, to my surprise, I found another poor
creature.bound hand and foot for the slaughter,
just- as the Spaniard had been, with very little
-lilt- in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up, but he could neither
stand nor speak; but groaned piteously, thinking
he was unbound in order to be slain,. Herenpon
J bid Friday speak to him, and tell him of his
deliverance; whtn, pulling out my bottle, I made
the poor wretch drink a dram, which, with the'
joyful news he Lad received, so revived his heart,
tha,t he sat up in the boat.
As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,
and looked more fully in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon'
transports of joy; for he kissed him, embraced
him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried, again,
wrung his hands, beat his face and head, then
sung and jumped about again like 9 distracted
creature; so that it was a great while before \
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was
the matter with him; but when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was his
father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see the
dutiful and tender affection of thi* poor savage
to his aged parent. He would sit down by him
in the boat, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
vrhich were stiff and numbed with binding, and
and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; by
which means, perceiving what the case was, I
gave him som? rum, which proved of great be-
nefit to him.
While we were basy in this action the savages
had gotten almost out of-sight, and happy it was
we did not pursue them; for there arose from,
the north-west, •'which continued all night long,
such a violent storm, that I could not suppose
otherwise but that they were all drowned. After
this I called Friday to me, and asked him if he
had given his father any bread? He shook his
head, and said, "None, not one bit—me cat it
up all." So I gave him a cake of bread out of
a little pouch I carried for this end. I likewise
gave him a dram for himself, and two or three
bunches of raisins for his father. Both these, he
carried to him, for he would wake him drink the
dram to comfort him. Away he then runs out of
the boat, as if he were bewitched, with such en
extraordinary snifrnes', hat he was out of sitht,
vs it were, iu an instant; but at his return I per-
•
ceivcd him slacken his pace, because he had
something in his hand; and this I found to be,
as he approached nearer, an earlhcu jug with
some water to his father, and two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being
very thirsty myself, I drank some of the water,
of which, when his father had drank sufficiently,
it more revived his spirits than all the rum I had
given him.
When his father had drank, I called to him, to
know if there were any water left? He. said,
"Yes." And I bid him give it to the poor Spa-
niard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
brought to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied
with.
When I saw that upon Friday's coming to him
with the water he sat up and drank, and took
the bread and began to eat, I went to him, and
gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up in
my face, with all the tokens pf gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any counte-
nance. He was so weak, notwithstanding he
had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand upon his feet. He tried to do it two
or three times; but was really not able, his
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him. So
I bid him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ankles and bathe them with rum as he had done
his father's. I observed the poor affectionate
creajure every two minutes, or perhaps less, all
the while he was here, turned his head about, to
see if h}s father was in the same place and pos-
ture as he left him sitting; and.at last he found
he was not to be seen, at which he started up,
and, without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, that one could scarcely perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but
when he came, be only found he hail laid himself
down to ease his limbs. So Friday came back to
me presently; and I then spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday,help him up if he could, and lead
him to the boat, and then he should carry into
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which Friday made nothing to take him
upon his back, and so carried him to the canoe,
setting him close by his father; and presently
stepping »ut again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could
walk, though the wind blew very hard too; and
Laving brought them safe to the creek, away he
runs to fetch the other canoe, which he brought
to the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
when wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat. But so weak were they, that I
was forced to make a kind of hand-barrow; and
when I came to my castle, not being willing to
make an entrance into my wall, we made them a
handsome tent, covered with old sails and bftughs
of trees, making two good beds of rice-straw,
with blankets to lie upon and cover them. Thus,
like an absolute king, over subjects who owed
their lives to me, I thought myself very great,
especially considering I had lhree religions in my
kingdom; my man Friday being a protestant, his
father a pagan, and the Spaniard a papist; but I
gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goaf, which,
when he had done it, I cut off the hinder quar-
ters, and chopping it into small pieces, boiled
and stewed it, putting barley and rice into the
broth. This I carried into their tent, set a table,
dined with them myself, and encouraged them.
Friday was my interpreter to his father, and in-
deed to the Spaniard too, who spoke the language
of the savages pretty well. After dinner I or-
dered Friday to fetch home all the arms from the
field of battle, and the next day to bury the
dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his father
whether he thought those savages had escaped
the late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether
they would not return with a power too great for
us to resist 1 He answered, that he thought it
impossible they should outlive the storm; or if
they were driven southwardly, they would come
to a land where they would as certainly be de-
voured, as if they were drowned inlhe sea; and
suppose they had attained their own country, the
strangeness of their bloody and fatal attack
would make them tell their people that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man, but by two heavenly
spirits, (meaning Friday and me) who were sent
from above to destroy them: and this he said he
knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he was in the right on it;
for t have heard since that these four men gave
out, that whoever went to that enchanted island,
would be destroyed by fire from the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead of
which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his country. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more of
his countrymen and Portuguese, who had been
shipwrecked, made their escape thither; that
though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries.
When I had asked him about the particulars
of his voyage, he answered that their ship was
bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havannah;
that when the ship was lost only five men pei whod
in the ocean—the rest, having saved themselves
in the boat, were now landed on the main conti-
nent. And what do they intend to do there?
said I. He replied, they had concerted measures
to escape jby building them a vessel, but they
had neither tools nor provisions; so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing, said I, I
should make them a proposal, and invite them
T
hither, would they not carry me prisoner to New
Spain? He answered, 'No: for he knew them
to be such honest men as would scorn to act such
inhuman baseness to their deliverer; that, if I
pleased, he and the old savage would go over to
them, talk with them about it, aud bring mean
answer; that they should all swear fidelity to
me, as their leader, upon the holy sacraments;
and that, for his part, he would not only do the
same, but stand by me to the last drop of his
blood, should there be occasion.'
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two ovef
for that purpose: but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised an objection which
carried a great deal of weight in it. "You
know, sir, (said he) that, being some time with
you, I cannot but be sensible of your stock of
rice and corn, sutticijnt perhaps for us at pre-
sent, but not lor them, should they come over
presently, and much less to victual a vessel for
an intended voyage. Want might be as great an
occasion for them to disagree and rebel, as the
children of Israel did against God himself, whqa
they wanted bread in the wilderness: and there-
fore my advice is, to wait another harvest, and
in th* meantime cultivate and improve some more
land, whereby we may have plenty of provisions^
in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard I approved of ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus we all
four went to work upon some more land; and
against seed-time we had got so much cured and
trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow twenty-two
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this time all
in good health, we feared not a hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us. And while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon some trees
fit to build us a large vessel in case the Spaniards
came over; which being marked, I ordered Fri-
day and his father to cut them down, appointing
the Spaniard, who was now my privy counsellor,
to oversee and direct the work.
I likewise encreased my flocks of goats, by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my enclosure: nor did I neglect the
grape-season, but cured them as usual, though I
Bsid such a quantity now as would have filled
eighty barrels. And thus all of us being em-
T 2
ployed, they in working, and I in providing for
them, till harvest came, God Almighty blessed
the increase of it so much, that from twenty-two
bushels of barley, we threshed out two hundred
and twenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffi-
cient to victual a ship to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus, the principal objection being answered
by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my two
ambassadors over to the mainland, with a regal
authority to administer the oath of allegiance
and fidelity, and have an instrument signed under
their hands, though I never asked whether they
had pen, ink, or paper; when, giving each of
them a musket, eight charges of powder and
ball, and provision enough for eight days, they
sailed away with a fair gale, on a day when the
moon was at the full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head,
but impatient for their return, I laid me down to
sleep one morning, when a strange accident hap-
pened, which was ushered in by my man's com-
ing running to me, and calling aloud, "Master,
master: they are come, they are come!" Upon
which, not dreaming of any danger, out I jumped
from .my bed, put on my clothes, and hurried
through my little prove; when, looking, towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a
half distant, standing in for the shore, with the
•\Vind fair. I beheld they did not cosne from tte
side Vvhere the land lay on, but from the southern
end of the island: so, these being none of the
people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still
till such time as I came down from the mountain,
which with nay ladder I now ascended,,in order
to discover more fully what they were: and now,
wilh the help of my perspective glass, I plainly
perceived an English ship, which I concluded it
to be by the fashion of its long-boat, and which
filled nue with such uncommon transports of joy,
that I cannot tell how to describe-; and yet some
secret doubt* hung about me, proceeding from 1
know not what cause, as though I had reason to
be on my guard. And indeed I would have no
man contemn the secret hints and intimations of
danger, which very often are given when he may
imagine there is no possibility of their being
real; for had I not been warned by this siina
admonition, I had been in a worse situation than
before, and perhaps in vitably ruined.
Not long it was before J perceived the boat to
approach the shoie, as though they looked for a
place where they might conveniently land; and
at last they ran their boat on shore upon the
beach, about half a mile distant, which proved
so much the happier for me; since if they had
come into the creek, they had landed just at my
door, and might not only have forced me out of
my castle, but plundered me of all I had in the
world. Now I was fully convinced they were
all Englishmen, three of whom were unarmed
and bound; when immediately the first four or
five leaped on shore, and took those three out of
the boat as prisoners: one of whom, I could per-
ceive, used the most passionate gestures of en-
treaty, affliction, and despair, while the others,
in a less degree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very
much astonished; and I beckoned to Friday,
who was below, to ascend the mountain, and
likewise view this sight. "Oh, master, (said be
to me) you see English mans eat prispnexs. as
well as savage mans!" And do yolii think they
will eat them, Friday? said L, "Yes, (said
Friday) they will eat all up," No, no, (said I)
Friday—I am much more concerned lest they
should murder thera ; as for eating them up, that
I aw sure they n^ver will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and savage with me, but
also that I could not come within shot of them
unperceived (they having no fire-arms, with them)
and save these three men, whom I thought they
were going to kill with their swords. But some
comfort it was to me that J perceived they were
set at liberty to go where they pleased; but they
sat down all three upon the ground very pen-
sive, and looked like men in despair. This put
me in mind qf the first time when I came on
shore and began to look about me, how I gave
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round
me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how
1 lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing of lie
supply I was to receive by the providenti.il driving
of the ship nearer the land in the storms and tide,
by which I have since been so loug nourished
and supported; so these three poor desolate men
knew nothing how Certain of deliyt ranee and
supply they were, how near it was to them, and
how effectually and re.'dy they were in a coudi-
tjftn of safety, at the same time that they thought
themselves lost and their, case desperate. So,
. little do we see before, us in the world, and sa
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but
that in the worst circumstances they have always
something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay,
are even brought to their deliverance by the
means through which they seem to be brought to
their destruction.
The rascally seamen scattering about, as
though they had, a mind to see the place; and so
long did they negligently ramble, that the tide
had ebbed so low as to leave the boat aground.
Nor were the two men that, were in her more cir-
cumspect, for, having drank a little too much li-
quor, they • fell, fast asleep; but one of them
waking before the other, and perceiving the boat
too fast aground for his strength to move it, he
hallooed out to the rest, who made all possible
expedition to come to him: but, as Providence
ordered it, all their force was ineffectual to launch
her, vhen I could hear them speak to one an-
other, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye; she'll
float next tide." By which words I was fully
convinced they were my countrymen.
All this while I lay' very quiet, as being fuHy
sensible it could be no less than ten hours before
the boat would be afloat, and then it would be
so dark, as that they could not easily perceive
me, by which means I should be at more liberty
to hear their talk and observe all their motions:
not but that I prepared for my defence; yet as I
bad now another sort of enemies to combat with,
I acted with more caution. I took two fusees on
my shoulder, and gave Friday three muskets;
besides, my formidable goat-skin coat and mon-
strous cap, made me look as fierce and terrible
as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword
kinging by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any at-
tempt till it was dark; but it being now two
o'clock, in the very heat of the day, the sailors
were all straggling into the woods, and undoubt-
edly were lain down to sleep. The three poor
distressed creatures, too anxious to get any repose,
were, .however, seated under the shade of a great
tree, about a quarter of a mile from me, and
before I was perceived I called aloud to them in
Spanish, \Vliat are you, gentlemen'?
At these words they started up in great confu-
sion, and belwlding the strange figure I made,
they returned me no answer, but seeratd as if
they would fly from me. Gentlemen, said I, in
English, don t be afraid: perhaps you have a
-friend nearer you than you expect. "He must
be from heaven; (said one of them gravely, and
pulling off his hat) for we are past all help in
this world." All help is from heaven, said I;
but, sir, as I have perceived every action between
you and those brutes since your landing, only in-
form me how to assist you, and I will do it to the
utmost of my power. ••• •' .1 ,'- '.
"Am I talking with God or man'? (said he, in
tears). Are you of human kind, or an angel!"
Sir, said I, my poor habit may tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you,
having but this servant only: here are arms and
ammunition: tell freely your condition, can we
save you-i f The story (said he) is too long to
relate, since our'butchers are so near. But, sir,
I was master of that ship: my men have mutinied,
and it is a favour they have put my mate, this
passenger, and me, on: shore, without murdering
us, though We expect nothing but to perish here."
Are your enemies gone? said I. "No: (replied
be, pointing to a thicket) there they lie; whjlemy
heart trembles, lest, having seen atid' h.eard u>f,.
they should murder us all." Have they fire-arms?
said I. "They have but two pieces (replied he)
one of which is left in the boat." He also told
me there were two enormous villains among them,
that were the authors of this mutiny, who, it'
they were killed or seized, might induce the rest
to return to obedience. Well, well, (said I) let
us retire farther under the covering of the woods;
and there it was I made these conditions with
them:—
I. That while they staid in the island they
should not pretend to any authority, but be en-
tirely conformable to my orders, and return me
the arms which I should put into their hands.
II. That if the ship were recovered, they
should afford Friday and me our passage gratis
to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire^ I gave each of them a gun, with
powder and ball sufficient, ad vising that we should
fire upon them as they lay. The captain mo-
destly said he was sorry to kill them ; though, on
the other hat;d, to let these villains escape, who
were the authors of his misery, might be the
ruin cf us all, should they bring the ship's com-
gaay upon us. "Well, (said he) do as you think
fit." And accordingly I fired, killing one of the
captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for assistance: but the
captain, who had reserved his piece, coming up
to him, " Sirrah, (said he) it is too late to call
for assistance: you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy," So he knocked ,him down
with the stock of his gun. Three others were
also slightly wounded, who at n>y approach cried
out for mercy. This the captain granted, on ton-
'dition that they would swear to be true to him in
recovering the ship, which they solemnly did:
however, I obliged the captain to keep them
bound.
Afterwards I sent Friday and tlw captain's
mate to secure the boat and bring away the oars
and sail; when, at their return, three men com-
, ing back, and seeing their late distressed captain,
'now their conqueror, submitted to be bound
also. And then it was that, having more liberty,
I related the adventures of my whole life, which
be heard with wonderful attention. Next, I ca/-
ried him aad his two men into my little fortified
castle, Chewed them all my conveniences, and
• rciVeshed them wilh such provisions as I could
afford. When tins was over we began to think
about regaining the ship. He said that there
were twenty-six hands on board, who, knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for con-
spiracy and mutiny, would grow so very hardened,
that it would be dangerous for our small com-
pany to attack them. This was a reasonable in-
ference indeed; Jwt something we did resolve on,
and immediately put in execution: for we heaved
the boat upon the beach so high, that she could
not shoot oil' at high-water mark, and made a
hole in her not easily to be stopped; and so all
the signals they gave for the boat to come on
board were in vain. This obl'ged them to send
another boat ashore, with ten men armed, whose
faces the captain plainly descried, the boatswain
being the chief officer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who \yere forced
into the conspiracy.
Herenpon I gave him fresh courage, (for I had
perceived he was in concern) in the meanwhile
securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinei; two we took into
our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle.
When the sailors lauded, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they uot only hallooed,
but fired for Iheir companions to hear; yet l\\fj
received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their compa-
nions were murdered; then they made as if they
would return- to the ship. I could perceive the
captain's countenance change at this, till three
men were ordered to look after the boat, while
the other seven- leaped on shore, in order to
search for their companions: and indeed they
came to the brew of the hill near my ancient
castle, from whence they could see a great way
into the woods; and there shouting and hallooing
till tired and weary, at length seated themselves
under a spreading tree.
My opinion was, that nothing could be done
till night, when I might use some artifice to get
them out of the boat: but of a sudden they all
started up, and made to the sea-side. Herenpon
I oidered Friday and the captain's mate to go
over the creek into the woods, and halloo as loud
as possible.
This artifice succeeded. The sailors immedi-
ately ran towards the wood, till coming to the
cref k, they called for their boat to carry them
over, and then took another man with them
kito the woods, leaving but two in the'boat.'
'Immediately we surprized the men in the boat;
and ordering thereto surrender on pain of death,
and one of them heing an honest ltd, they threw
down their aims and submitted themselves to our
command.
When the sailors returned from a vain and
long search, and found their boat aground in the
creek, the tide out, and their companions gone,
they ran about, wringing their hands, and crying
out, that it was an enchanted island, aud they
should all be murdered by spirits or devils.
Friday aud the captain crawled towards them
on their hands and knees; aud the' captain,
taking aim at the boatswain, who was the ring-
leader of the mutiny, killed him on the spot
Friday wounded another, aud a third ran away.
I BOW advanced with my whole army, and it
being nearly dark, I ordered the two men we had
surprized in the boat to call to them by their
names, and bid them surrender to the captain and
fifty men, or they would all be killed.
Thrown into the greatest consternation bv the
death of the boatswain, and the fear of being
overpowered by numbers, they threw down their
arms and surrendered.
Having bound our prisoners and secured tbe
02
ahoat, I sent the captain, in the name of the go-
-vernor of the island, to offer them free pardon,
^if they would assist in recovering the ship. To
this they one. and all consented; and agreed
. among themselves, that whoever attempted to
violate the condition should be hanged upon the
beach.
Both boats were now got ready with all possible
expedition, and about midnight the captain, &c.
reached the ship.
Robinson, one of the prisoners, on whom the
captain knew he could rely, was ordered to hail
• the ship, and to say that they had at last found
their comrades.
The crew received them on board, without
any suspicion of the captain being among them i
and in less than half an hour the captain's party
secured every man in the ship, and restored the
government' of the vessel to its lawful com-
mander.
And thus, the ship being completely recovered,
the joyful signal was fired, which-I heard with
the greatest dehght imaginable. Nor was it long
before the grateful csptain brought the ship to an
anchor at the creek's mouth; and hastening ou
shore, he threw himself into my arms, exclaim-.
n/soe'.

/e t/istj'ti'- eet/fi,s4/fe. (' <r/t/cM ft.
f~ C!
ing, "My friend—my deliverer! There is your
ship: she is yours, and we are your servants!"
I was so affected with this most unexpected
event, that I swooned in his embraces. Having
recovered, I kneeled down upon the beach to
thank the Almighty Disposer of all things for my
miraculous deliverance. ,
It was useless now to wait for the arrival of
the Spaniards, as it would by no means answer
their purpose to be carried to England. I there-
fore wrote in Spanish an account of all that had
befallen me, and placed it in a conspicuous part
of the tent, within my fortified wall.
I left them my habitation, with all its conve-
niences and utensils; my tools, my flocks of goats,
and all my accumulated stores; and carrying
with me Friday, my parrot, my money, my um-
brella, and goat-skin cap, I bid farewel to the
island, after twenty-eight years, two months,
and nineteen days residence.—We set sail
Dec. 12, 1680, and arrived in England June 11,
1G07.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive;
she had buried a second husband, but in very
mean circumstances, and I made her very
easy on my account. Soon after I went down
u 3
to Yorkshire, where all my family were expired,
except two sisters, and as many of one of my
brother's children. I found no provision had
been made for me, they concluding I had been
long since dead; so that I was'but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a
great kindness by his report to the owners, of the
manner in which I had delivered their ship on
the desolate island; on which they made me a *'
present of two hundred pounds. I next went to
Lisbon, taking my man, Friday, with me; and
arriving there in April, I met the Portuguese
captain, who took me on board on the African
coast; but being old, he had left off the sea,
and resigned all his business to his son, who fol-
lowed the Erasil trade. So altered both of us
were, that we did not know each other at first,
till I discovered myself more fully to him. After
a few embraces, I began to enquire of my con-
cerns; and then the old gentleman told me that
it was nine years since he had been at Brazil,
where my partner was then living, but my trus-
tees were both dead; that it was his belief I
should have a good account of the product of
my plantation; that the imagination of my being
lost had obliged my trustees to give an estimate
of my share to the ''rocurator-fiscal, who, in
case of my not returnins, had given one third to
the king, and the res: to the monastery of St. Au-
gustine; but if I pni in my claim, or anyone for
me, it would be ict'irned, except the yearly pro-
duct, which was given to the poor. I then de-
sired him to tell me what improvement he thought
had been made of my plantation, and whether
he imagined it was worth my while to look after
it? Fie answered, that he did not know how
much it was improved; but this he was certain
of, that my partner was grown vastly rich upon
his half of it; and that he had been informed
that the king had two hundred moidores for his
third part. He added, that the survivors of my
trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means,
indisputably, I should recover considerable sums
of money. But, answered I, how could my
trustees dispose of my effects, when I made you
only my heir? This, he said, was true; but
there being no affidavit made of my death, he
could not act as an executor. However, he had
ordered his son, then at Brasil, to act by pro-
curation upon my account; and he had taken
possession of my sugar-house, having accounted
himself for eight years with my partner and
trustees for the profits, of which he would give
me a very good account.
This he performed very faithfully in a few days,
making himself indebted to me 470 moidores of
gold, over and above what had been lost at sea
after I had left the place. And then he recounted
to me what misfortunes he had gone through,
which forced my money out his hands to buy
part in a new ship. "But (said he) you shall
not want: take this, and when my son returns
every farthing shall be paid you." Upon which
he pat into my hand a purse of 150 moidores in
gold, as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship hi which his son was, and which
he offered as security for the remainder. But
really when I saw so much goodness, generosity,
tenderness, and real honesty, I had not the heart
to accept it, for fear he should straiten himself on
my account. "It is true (said he) it may be so;
but the money is yours, not mine, and you may
have the greatest occasion for it." However, I
returned fifty of them, promising to give him the
other hundred when I got my effects in my hands,
saying I designed to go myself for that pur-
pose. But he told me he could save me the,
trouble; and so caused me to enter my name
with a public notary, as likewise my affidavit
with a procuration affixed to it; and he advised
me to send it in a letter to one of his acquaint-
ance, a merchant at Brasil; and indeed nothing
could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months' time I had a very
faithful account of all my eftects, what sums
were raised, what expended, and what remained
for my use: in a word, I found myself worth
5000/. and 1000/. per annum. Nor was this all;
for my partner congratulated me upon my being
alive, telling me how much my plantation was
improved, what negroes were at work, and how
many Ave Marias he had said to the Virgin
Mary for my preservation, desiring me to accept
kindly some presents he had sent me, which
shewed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive but I rewarded
my faithful captain, by returning him the hun-
dred moidores; and not only forgiving him all
he owed me, I allowed him yearly a hundred
more, and fifty to his son, during their lives.
And now being resolved to go to England, I re-
furned letters of thanks to the prior of St. Au/
gustine, and in particular to my old partner, with
very suitable presents. By the captain's advice
I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England. When, as it
happened, I got a young English gentleman, a
merchant's son at Lisbon, to accompany me,
together with two English and two Portuguese
gentlemen; so that, with a Portuguese servant,
an English sailor, and my man Friday, there
•were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and
came to Madrid, when, the summer decaying,
we hastened to Navarre, where we were informed
that there was scarcely any passing, by reason of
the prodigious quantity of snow; so that we
were obliged to abide near twenty days at Pam-
peluna, and at last to take a guide to conduct us
safe towards Thoulouse. And now twelve other
gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away
our guide led us by the frightful mountains, and
through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we
, travelled along, ushered us into the prospect of
the fruitful and charming provinces of Languedoc
and Gascoigne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, Our guide was encountered
by three wolves and a bear, which set upon him
and his horse, and wounded him in three places;
upon which my nian, riding up to his assistance,
shot one of them dead, on which the others ran
into the woods. But the pleasante&t adventure
was to see my man attack the bear. This crea-
ture, if let alone, will never meddle with you,
and this my man Friday very well knew; and so
begging leave of me, hi broken English, he told
us he would '•' make good laugh." Why, you
silly fool, said I, he'll cat you up at a mouthful.
"Eatce me up! (replied he) Me ealee him, and
make much good laugh!" Upon which, pulling
off his boots, he claps on his pumps, and run-
ning after the monstrous beast, he called out
that he wanted to speak with him; and then-
throwing stones on purpose to incense him, the
beast turns about in a fury, and with prodigious
strides, shuffles after him. But though he could
not keep pace with Friday, who made up to us,
as it were,-fof help. You blockhead, said I,
immediately take horse, and let us shoot the
creature. But he cried, " Dear master, no
shoot—me make you much laugk!" And so he
turned about, making s:gns to follow, while the
bear ran after him, till coming to a great oak,
he ascended in a minute, leaving his gun at the
bottom of it. Nor did the bear make any diffi-
culty of it, but, notwithstanding his bulk, as-
cended like a cat. You mu>t think I was not a
little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till
we rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted
on the oak, on the beginning of the branch to
which Friday clung at the farther end, where the
bear durst not come. Herenpon Friday cried
out, "Now, master, me make much laugh; me
make de bear dance!" Upon which he fell a
shaking the bough, which made the creature look
behind him, to see how he could retreat. Then,
as if the bear had understood his stammering
English, he cried, "Why you not come farther,
Mr. Bear! Pray Mr. Bear, come farther!"
And then, indeed, we all burst into laughter;
especially when we perceived Friday drop, like a
squirrel, upon the ground, leaving the beast to
make tiie best of his way down the tree. And
now, thinking it the most convenient time to kill
him, Friday cried out, "Oh dear, master, no
shoot; me shoot bye and bye!" When, taking
up his gun, he said, "Me not shoot yet—me
luake once more much laugh." And accordingly
he was as good as his word; for the creature
descending backwards from the tree very leisure-
ly, before he could lay one foot to the ground,
Friday shot him through the ear stone-dead; and
looking to see if we were pleased, burst out into
a hearty laugh, saying, "So we kill bear in my
country; not with gun, but much loug arrow."
Thus ended our diversion, to our satisfaction,
especially in a place where the terrible howlings
struck us with continual terror. But the snow
uow growing very deep, particularly on the moun-
tains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to seek
for sustenance in the villages; where, coming by
surprise on the country people, they killed seve-
ral of them, besides a great number of their sheep
and horses.
Our guide told us we Lad yet one more dan-
gerous place to pass; and if there were any more
wolves in the country, there we should finj
them. This was a small plain, encompassed
with woods, Jo get through a long lane, to the
village where we were to. lodge. When we en-
tered the wood the sun was within half an hour
of setting; and a little after it was set v,e caiae
x
into the plain, which was not above two leagues
over; and then we saw five great wolves cross
the road, without taking notice of us, and so
swift as though they were pursuing their prey.
Our guide, believing there were more coming,
desired us to be on our guard. Accordingly,
about a furlong farther we saw a dead horse, and
near a dozen of wolves devouring its carcase. My
aian Friday fain would have fired at them, but I
would not permit him. Nor had we gone more
than half a league farther, when we heard dread-
ful bowlings in a weed on our left, and saw a hun-
dred coming up against us, as though they had
been an experienced army. This obliged us to
form ourselves in the best manner; and then I
ordered that every other man should fire, that
those who did not might be ready for a second
volley, should they advance upon us; and theu
every man to make use of his pistols. But there
was no necessity for this; for the enemy, being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire. Four
of them were shct dead, and several others, being
wounded, went bleeding away, as we could very
plainly discover by the snow. And now, remem-
bering wtiat had been often told me, that such
was the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike
terror even into the fiercest creatures, I ordered
all our companions to halloo as loud as possible:
and in this notion I was not altogether mistaken;
for they immediately turned about at the first
halloo, and began to retire; upon which, order-
ing a second volley in their rear, they galloped
into the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could pn
our way. But we had not rode far before we
were obliged to put ourselves in a posture of de-
fence as before, being alarmed with a very dread-
ful noise, in the same wood, on our left hand, \
the way that we were to pass, only that it was
some distance from us. By this time dark clouds
began to spread over the sky, and the night came '/;.
on apace, which made it so much the more to
our disadvantage; when presently three troops
of wolves, in our front, appeared to our sight,
as though a great number of them had a design
to surround us, and devour us in spite of fate.
As they did not fall upon us immedinlrly, we pro-
ceeded on our journey in the swjftest manner the
roads would permit our horses, which was only
a large trot. It was in this manner.we travelled,
till such time as we discovered another wood,
X2
and had the prospect of its entrance, through
which we were to pass at the farthest side of the
plain. But surely none can express the terror
we were in when, approaching the lane, we per-
ceived a confused number of the fiercest wolves
standing, and, as it were, guarding its entrance.
Nor were we long in this amazement, before an-
other occasion of horror presented itself; for
suddenly we heard the report of a gun at another
opening into the wood; and looking that way,
out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying with
the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixteen
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to
devour the poor creature: and unquestionably
they did so, after they had run him down, not
being able to hold out that swiftness by which he
at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the iiorse came forth, there lay the carcases of
two men and another horse, mangled and torn
by these devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one
of these .men was the person who fired the gun
which we had heard, for the piece lay by him;
but, alas, most of the upper part of his body
and his head were entombed in the bowels of
these ravenous creatures!
/p. 104.

What course to take, whether to proceed or
to retreat, we could not tell; ,but it was not long
before the wolves themselves nnulc us come to a
n-v>l;ilioi!: for such numbers surrounded us,
every one of whom expected their prey, that
were our bodies to be divided among them, there
would not be half a mouthful apiece. But happy,
very huppy it was for us, that but a .little way
from the entrance there lay some .very large
timber-trees, which I supposed had been cut down
and laid there .for sale, .among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us ,fqr a breast-
work; when, desirng them to alight, we stood
jn a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our
horses in the ceptre, the pnly piatje .where we
could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a ,mo$e furious
charge than what the wolves, jpade upon us in
this place: and the sight of the horses, which
was the principal thing they aimed at, provoked
.their hunger, and added to their natural fierce-
ness. They came on us with a most dreadful
noise, which made the woods ring again; and
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I or-
dered every other man to fire as before directed;
x 3
and indeed so well did they take their aim, that
they killed several of the wolves at the first vol-
ley ; but still we were obliged to keep a Amtinual
firing, for they came, pushing one another on
with the greatest fury.
Our second volley something abated their
courage, when, stopping a little, we hoped they
would have made the best of their way. How-
ever, it did not prove so; for others made a new
attempt upon us; and though in four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laming
twice as many, yet they came on several times
successively, as though they valued not their lives
for the sake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend, our last shot too
suddenly; and therefore called my otlu r servant,
and, giving him a horn of powder, bid him lay
a large train quite along the timber, which he
did, while Friday was charging my fusee and his
own with the greatest dexterity. By this time,
the wolves coming up the timber, I set fire to
the train, by snapping a discharged pistol close
on the powder. This so scorched and terrified
them, that some fell down, and others jumped
in among us with the strength and terror' of the
flames; but these we immediately dispatched,
i ,
when all the rest, frightened with the light,
which the darksome night caused to appear more
dreadful, began at length to retire: upon which,
ordering our last pistols to be fired at once,
giving at the same time a great shout, the wolves
were obliged to have recourse to their swiftness,
and turned tail; and then we' sallied out upon
twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces with
our swords, which caused them to howl lamenta-
bly, to the terror of their fellow-devourers, who
resigned to us the field as victorious conquerors.
And indeed, I question whether Alexander, king
of Macedon, in any of his conquests, had more
occasion for trinmph than we had; for he was
but attacked by numerous armies of soldiers,
whereas our little army was obliged to combat a
legion of devils, as it were, worse than canni-
bals, who, had they slain us, would have sacri-
ficed us the same moment, to satisfy their vora-
cious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts,
having killed threescore of them, and saved our
Jives from their fury. We still Lad a league to
go farther, when, as we went, our ears werte
saluted with their most unwelcome bowlings, ex-
pecting every moment another attack. But in an
hour's time we arrived safe at the town where we
were to lodge; and here we found the place
strictly guarded, and all in terrible confusion;
as well they might, for fear of the bears and
wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, the other
being very ill of the wounds which he had re-
ceived, as before mentioned. After we had
reached Thoulouse, we came into a warm, plea-
sant, and fruitful country, not infested with
wolves, nor any sort of ravenous creatures; and
when we told our story there, they blamed our
guide much, for conducting us through the forest
at the foot of the mountains, and in such a se-
vere season too, when the snow obhged them to
seek for shelter in the woods.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my pas-
sage through France to take notice of, since other
travellers of greater learning and ingenuity hav.e
giv.en a mojre ampk account than my pen is able
to set /orth. From Thoulouse I travelled tp
Paris, from thence to Calais, where I to,ok ship-
ping, and landed at Dover the 14,lh of January,
in a very cold.s.easoji.
Thus come to the end of my trawls,, I soon
discovered my new-found estate, and all the bills
of exchange I had brought were currently paid.
The good ancient widow, my only privy coun-
sellor, thought no pains or care too great to pro-
cure my advantage; nor had I ever occasion to
blame her fidelity, which drew from me an ample
reward. I was for leaving my effects in her
hands, intending to set out for Lisbon, and so
to the Brasils; but as in the desolate island I
had some doubts about the Romish religion, so
I knew there was but little encouragement to
settle there, unless I would apostatise from the
orthodox faith, or live in continual fear of the
Inquisition. Upon this account I resolved to sell
my plantation: and for that intent I wrote to my
old frknd at Lisbon, who returned me an answer
to my great satisfaction; which was, that he
could readily sell it there: however, if I thought
it convenient to give him liberty to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, residing at the Brasils, who conse-
quently understood its intrinsic value, having
lived just upon the spot, and who, I was sensible,
Here very rich, and therefore might be the more
willing to purchase it; he did not in the least
doubt but I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of
eight more of it, than I should do if I disposed
of it in any other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with
this kind and ingenuous proposal; and immedi-
ately I sent him an order to offer it unto them,
which he accordingly did; so that about eight
months after, the ship being in that time returned,
he gave me a satisfactory account, that they not
only willingly accepted the offer, but that they
had also remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of
eight to a correspondent of their own at Lisbon,
iti order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument
of sale, according to form, which they had sent
from Lisbon, and returned it again to niy old
friend, he having sent me, for my estate, bills of
twenty-eight thousand three hundred pieces of
eight, reserving the payment of one hundred
moidores per annum, which I had allowed him
during life, as also fifty to his sou during life, ac-
cording to my faithful promise, which the planta-
tion was to make good as a rent charge.
Any one would think, that, in this state of
complicated good fortune, I was past running
any more hazards; aod so indeed I had been,
if other circumstances had not concurred; but I
was inured to a wandering life, had no family,
not many relations, nor, however rich, had I
contracted many acquaintance; and though I
had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet I could not
keep the country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be on the wing again; especially,
1 could not resist the strong inclination I had to
see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there, and how the rogues I had
left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that
for almost seven years she prevented my running
abroad; during which time I took my two ne-
phews, the children of one of my brothers, into
my eare. The eldest, having something of his
own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a
settlement of some addition to his estate after
my decease. The other I put out to a captain
of a ship; and, after five years, finding him a
sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put
him into a good ship, and sent him to sea. Ju
the meantime, I in part settled myself here.
For firs!; of all I married, and that not either
to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had
three children, two sons and one daughter: bat
iny wife dying, and my nephew coming home'
'with good success from a voyage to Spain, my
inclination to go abroad, and his importunity,
prevailed and engaged me to go in his ship, as
a private trader, to the East Indies. This was
in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in
the island, saw my successors the Spaniards,
had the whole story of their lives, and of the
villains I had left there; how at first they in-
sulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated; and how
at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence
with them; ho'.v they were subjected to the
Spaniards; ho\v honestly the Spaniards used
them. A history, if it were entered into, as
full of variety and wonderful incidents as my
own, particularly as to their repeated battles
with the Carribeans, who landed several times
upon the island; and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself; and how five
of them made an attempt upon the mainland,
and brought away eleven men and five women,
prisoners, by which at my coming I found about
twenty young children in the island. Here 1
stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms,
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen,
which I brought from England with me, viz. a
carpenter and a smith. Besides this, I shared
the island into parts wilh them, reserving to my-
self the property of the whole, but gave them
such parts respectively as they agreed on; and
having settled. all things with them, and en-
gaged them not to leave the place, I left them
there.
From thence I touched at the Brasils, from
whence I sent a bark, which I bought there, •
with more people to the island; As to the Eng-
lishmen, I promised to send them from England
a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply
themselves to planting, which I afteiwards per-
formed. And the fellows proved very honest
and diligent after they were mastered, and had
their properties set apart for them.
I gent them also from the Brasils five cows,
three of them being with calf, some sheep, and
some hogs, which, when I came again, were
considerably encreased. When they had all
these things, three hundred Carribees came and
invaded them,. and ruined their planU/ions..
They fought with that number twice, and were
Y
at first defeated, and three of them killed; but
at last a storm destroying their enemies' canoes,
they famished or destroyed almost all the rest,
and renewed and recovered the possession of their
plantation, and still lived upon the island.
THE ENt>,
K. Blackader, Prmter,
To6k's Court, Chancery Lane, London.
LIST of the Plates.
page
Xnry shooting the lmn 10
lRrl-inson shipwrecked £6
— returnmg loaded from the wreck ... 35
», cciiiteiupiiumi; the ocean 42
. ...-.,— taking t on i the kid 46
. making his boat .;,..... .117
The punt of the toot in the sand 139
The old goat in the grotto 149
The drowned sailor 158
Friday's submission , • 171
Fridays manner of reckoning 177
Robinson reU asin« the Spaniard 196
1'he En^ilish captam and his company surprised at> -.,
the appearance of Robmson Cnifoe and Friday J
Interview wilh the captain 220
Friday shooting the bear 229
Attack of the yyolvcs ........... 238
POPULAR SCHOOL BOOKS
Published ly C. Cradock and W. Joy, 32,
Paternoster-Row.
1. The SECOND EDITION, with numerous Cuts, enlarged
and much improved, price fid. sewed.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH PRIMER, for Chil-
dren of ail early Age; intended to precede the NEW
BRITISH SPELLING BOOK, and oiher similar Heading
Books.
2. The EIGHTH EDITION, on fine paper, corrected
and much improved in the arrangement, witii^Onew Cuts
added, price Is (id. bound.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH SPELLING BOOK,
or an Introduction to Spelling and Reading, in Seven
Parts, containing a great variety of easy Lessons exactly
adapted to the capacities of Youth, and arranged in a
new, easy, and pleasing order; the Tables of Worcis are
divided and accented according to the purest modes of
pronunciation.
"We have compared this Spelling Book wife Mayor's,
and several other generally esteemed first books for chil-
dren, and h'nd it in almost every particular more simple,
.more congenial with the language and powers of the
young mind, and better adapted for instruction, than any
other work of its kind. The spelling and reading lessons
are placed on. opposite pages, and the selection of the
latter is such as must naturally expand the nii.id and im-
prove the morals of children."—Antijofottin Remiw.
3, On fine paper, and handsomely printed, price 4s.
• • neatly bound.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH READER; OR SE-
QUEL to his NEW BRITISH SPELLING BOOK, contain-
ing a great variety of easy Lessons, selected from the
most approved Authors, exhibiting a very easy gradation,
and adapted to the junior classes of Ladies' and Gentle-
nien's Schools; AND, WHAT WILL BE DEEMED A MOST
ESSEMTIAL IMPROVEMENT, THE MORE DIFFICULT
WORDS ARE DIVIDED AND EXPLAINED AT THE
HEAD OF EACH CHAPTER.
"This is one of the easiest and most useful guides to
reading that we have seen; and the gradation from plain
and familiar to the higher orders of competition is ver^
School Books published by
judiciously contrived and executed : an agreeable TOT
liety, both in prose and verse, is also introduced, as are
somV ir;ieresring tales. The l>i>< k is remarkably well
printed, ami of a very moderate price."—British Critic,
July, 1811.
4. Just published, the THIRD EDITION, enlarged,
very considesably improved, and handsomely printed,
price Is. 6d. bound in red.
GUY'S ENGLISH SCHOOL GRAMMAR;
in which Practical Illustration is, in every step, blended
with Theory, by Rules, Examples, and Exercises':
adapted throughout to the Use of Schools and Private
Ifeachere.
In this work English Grammar is rendered easy to the
capacity of every learner, not only by giving a concise
outline of its general principle-,, but by combining theory
with practice, by adapting Questions and Exercises in a
well digested Order, to each Rule, by concentrating
every thing essential, and bringing it at once to the test
of Practice. "By it children will not be engaged so
long as they now are, with so much labour of the me-
moir, and so little assistance of the understanding."
Dr. Lowth.
5. SECOND EDITION, enlarged and much improved.
Royal I8mo. with Seven handsome Maps, price 3s.
bound in red.
GUY'S SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY, on anew,
easy, and highly approved plan; comprising not only n
complete general Description, but much Topographical
Information, in a well digested Order; exhibitmg three
distinct Parts, and yet forming one connected Whple.
Expressly adapted' to every Age and Capacity, and to
every Class of Learners, both in Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Schools.
"We think this work.entitlrd to unqualified approba-
tion. It unites utility with cheapness. Its method is
simple and practicable, and well adapted to the first
wants of the mmd. Mr. Guy is already known as the
author of some other works of a similar nature, and this
will add to his merit in that species of composition."—
Universal Msgazme, April, 1810.
*„* The Maps <m a handsome royal drawing paper, neatly
coloured, are sold separate for the convenience of Teachers,
price 2s. sewed.
t. Cradock and W. Joy.
6. SIXTH EDITION, on fiue paper, handsomely printed,
with near two hundred nsw articles added, and the
whole carefully corrected, and much improved; price7s-
board?, or 7s. 6d. neatly bound.
GUY'S POCKET CYCLOPAEDIA; or, Mis-
cellany of USEFUL KNOWLEDGE, from the latest and best
Authorities, designed for senior Scholars in Schools, and
for young Persons m general; containing much nsefu' in-
t formation on vaiiom subjects necessary to be known by
all persons, and yet not to be found in books of general
use m Schools. Ky JOSEPH GUY, late Pipfcssar of Geo-
graphy, &c. Royal Mihtary College. Great Marlow.
"lu company, to discover gross ignorance of things be-
coming one's station in life to know, is imnpportably
mortifymg and degrading."—Anon.
Six Editions of this most useful Work haVe been called
forby tlie Public, in this Edition tiie Arts are brought
down to the present ti:ne, new discoveries intieduced,
near 200 new articles added, and ihe whole re-written
and made familiar to the youthful capacity.
7. GUY'S CHART OF GENERAL HIS-
TORY, Ancient and Modern <>n a large sheet of Im-
perial drawing paper, the SECOND EDITION, corrected,
price 7s. coloured; on canvas and rollers, 10s. 6d.; and
varmshed, price 14s.
A Chart of this kmd will greatly facilitate the student's
progress, and give linn cleaver ideas of the rise, duration,
and fall of each kingdom and empire, than the perusal of
. many volumes. It is, in short, to History, what Maps
are to Geography. It is a mode of representation vuiich
gives a kind of locality to events; and conveys not only
distinct ideas of distant events in any one country, but
the relative occurrences of different nations.
8. GUY'S SCHOOL CIPHERING BOOK
for Beginners; containing a complete Set of Sums in the
first four Rules in Arithmetic, printed in large Figures,
the copy-book,size, having all theSmnsset, and all the
Lines ruled: on excellent willing paper, SECOND EDI-
TION, price 3s. 6d. 4to. half bound.
Also, a Key to the above Sums, price 6d.
This work will be equally acceptable 10 Ladies' and
Gentlemen's Schools, and private Families. It com-
prises every thing • ,,^'iitml m the abure Rules, ai-i! will
fave Teachers ranch,needle«9 trouble, both in setting and,
correcting such Sums.
9. In Royal 4to. price 18s. neatly half bound; or full
coloured, 11. is.
-OSTELL'S NEW GENERAL ATLAS; con-
taining distinct Maps of all Hie principal States and
Kingdoms throughout the world, from the latest and best
Authorities, including a Map of Ancient Greece, and of
the Roman Empire: the whole correctly engraved up.>;
30 plates, royal quarto, and beautifully coloured outlines.
10. The FOURTH EDITION, just published, with consi-
derable Additions and Improvements, price 7s. Cd.
12rno. neatly half bound.
AN INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHY
AND ASTRONOMY, by the Use of Globes and Maps; .
to whi<* arc added, the Construction of Maps, and a
Table of Latitudes and Longitudes. By E. and J. BHCCB,
of,N eiveastie-npon-Ty rie.
in lift* edition, the population of towns in Great Bri-
ta!n \f taken from the Population Ketnrns made in 1811,
and laid before the last Session of Parliament.
11. Now firit published, prk'e 2s. 6d. sewed.
A KEY TO ERUCE'S GEOGRAPHY, con-
tainins Answers to all the Problems in the Geography.
By JOHN BKOCE.
12. Just published, Hit 5th Edition, corrected and much
improved, with a Geographical Frontispiece, price is.
found.
A SYSTEM OF ANCIENT AND MODERN
GEOGRAPHY, with'a scries of Geographical Examinu-
t'sns, F.y JOHN HOLLAND of Manchester, author of
many viluab'e elementary books.
13. The r ioiKrii'''DiTiON,piicc 1 s.in coloured paper,
'I HE CATECHISM OF NATURE;; for the
l'«e of Childirr,. IVy Dr. M.4K1 INEF, Professor of Phi-
ln«onl'y at Zntphen. Transslated from the Dutcb, by the
Kiv. Jon !!AI L, of the Eng-,.-h Church at Koilerdam.
"Mead nature, nature is a fiieud
• -*• jZ^..'. *""i *• 7
\

LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
ORIGINALLY WRITTEN
BY DANIEL DEFOE.
REVISED FOR THE USE OF YOUNG PERSONS,
And illustrated with
SIXTEEN COPPER PLATES.
A Ntu> Edition, corrected and improved.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR C. CRADOCK AND W. JOY,
32, PATERNOSTER-ROW,
J. HARRIS; CHARLES LAW; BARTON, HARVEY, AND
DARTON; w. BARTON, HOIBORN HlLt •
AND CHAMPANTE AND WHITROW, JEWRY STREET,
By E. Biacloiier, Took's Court, Chancery Law.
1813.
NOTWITHSTANDING the acknowledged merit
of DEFOE'S interesting narrative of the Adven-
tures of Robinson Crusoe, it will be admitted,
that, as he did not address it expressly to Young
Persons, it must contain many things which are
not well adapted to an early age, and which,
when read by them, it were better should be
omitted. At the same time, no book lays such
strong hold on the curiosity of Youth as this
narrative; and many eminent writers have strongly
recommended it, as deserving a preference over
every other human production, on account of the
lively picture it conveys of man residing in a
state of nature, and of the means necessary to
attain a state of enjoyment and easy subsist-
ence.
The design of the Editor, therefore, has been,
to render a book possessing such claims to po«
pularity as unexceptionable as possible. He has
at the same time preserved the spirit of the
narrative; and, he believes, the story will not
be found to have lost any of its interest from the
verbal alterations which he has judged it neces-
sary to make.

ADVENTURES
t
1 • -• ,
,OP'
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of^
York, of wealthy, and respectable .parents. My
father intended to educate me for the professien
of 'the law; but I, unfortunately, acquired so
earnest a desire for going to sea, that not even
the commands of my father, the entreaties of my
mother, nor the remonstrances of my other
friends, could induce me entirely to conquer
my childish propensity..
For some time, indeed, after I first made my
inclination known, the calm and steady advice
of my father, which was accompanied with tears
of affection, so wrought upon me, that I resolved
not to-think any more of going to sea, and f#
conform myself to the affectionate wishes of my
parents: but, about twelve months afterward,
going by chance to Hull, I there met with a
former school-fellow, the son of a sea-captain,
who, unfortunately for me, was then going lo
London in his father's ship. This lad, not more
wise norprudent than myself, persuaded me to go
to, sea with him, which I, like an undutiful, un-
grateful son, consented to do; and, without more
consideration, abandoned my comfortable home,
and embarked on the first of September, leaving
.m^ .parents in utter ignorance what was become
<}f ine.
Scarcely had we put to sea when a violent
j, *. . *
storm arose, I was also excessively sea-sick;
and in the midst of my pain ami terror, I re-
pented bitterly of my folly, and made many good
resolutions for the government of my future con-
duct.
It was now that my want of duty, and my in-
gratitude to the best of parwits, wrung my
heuit; yet, no sooner was the storm over, and
my sickness abated, than the raillery of my com-
panion, tl:e captain's son, chased away all my
[rood resolutions: I became both satisfied with
«y situation, and forgot Hie aaguisb which my
excellent parents were enduring for my sake.
-On the sixth day of our being at sea, we came
iato Yarmouth Roads, and the wind being con-
trary, we were ^biiged to cast anchor there. The
wind continued.during,fo;ur or five days to blow very
Jiard; but the sailors, thinking themselves as se-
cure as if they ,w.eie at anchor iii .a harbour, spent
.the time merrily. On the eighth day, however,
. it .blew a.terrible storm indeed, aml I bebejd ter-
ror and amazement in every countenance. Tfee
sea ran mountains high, and brok,e upon us every
three or four minutes. The seamen were coiHi-
. nnally exclaiming that the ship would founder.
I did not krtaw what they mea^t by founder, and
no one had leisure or composure cnougli to give
me any info.nnation. In the middle of the night
one of the men cried out that we, had sprung a
leak, and all hands were called to the pump. I
hoard the master express this melancholy ejacu-
la^ion, "Lord hav.c mercy upon us, we shall be
ail lost and undone,!" At that dreadful sound
I fell, backwards upon the bed where I was sit-
ting; but the men soon roused me, and drove
•Ju.u to ,lhe pump, saying, that if I .could zut
do any thing else, I was as able to pump as ae-
other.
The captain, meanwhile, ordered guns to be
fired, as signals of distress, and a ship at some
distance ventured to send out her boat to our
assistance. It was with the greatest danger
and difficulty that the boat could come near
us; but the sailors ventured their lives to save
ours; and we had not been more than a quarter
of an hour out of our ship, when we saw her sink
with her whole cargo on board.
The boat struggled many hours with the wind
and waves before she reached the shore. At
length, however, we got safe to hmd, and tra-
velled on foot to Yarmouth, where the Siftigis-
trates and inhabitants pitied our destitute condi-
tion; and,having lodged aud fed us for a few
days, they gave MS money to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
H,id I now had the sense and goodness to have
gone home again, I should have been happy, and
my father would have been spared the misery of
supposing I had perished; for it was some time
before he had any assurance of my having es-
caped drowning in the ship that h§d foundered at
sea: But false shame withheld me from doing
my duty; for it occurred to me that I should be
. laughed at among my neighbours and friends,
ond thus, like many other foolish young people,
I wus ashamed to repent, though I had not beta
ashamed to sin.
The evil influence which first carried me away
from my father's house, hurried me on with the
wild notion of making my fortune. I travelled
to London, and soon got acquainted with the
master of a vessel hound to the coast of Africa,
or, as sailors call it, to the coast of Guinea.
With this captain I engaged to go to Africa;
and having written to some of my friends, who,
1 suppose, prevailed on my father or mother to
contribute something towards my purchasing
what was necessary for my voyage, I had 401.
remitted to me, and bought with it such toys and
Articles as the captain told me I might baiter
nith the natives for gold dust.
My voyage was a very successful one; for I
brought home nearly &>Ul. in gold dust, and had
learned from the cu, lain, who took great pleasure
in giving me iosti.uction, the arts of navigation
. and mathematics. He also treated me as his
ion, and hswi he. lived he would have prevailed,
B a
on me to return to my parents; but scarcely had
the ship reached the port of London, when my
good friend, the captain, died, and his mate suc-
ceeded to the command of the vessel. Deter-
mined to purfue the course which had hitherto
proved so fortunate, I laid out 1001. in articles
for trafiic, depositing the other 2001. in the hands
of my friend, the captain's widow, and set sail a
second time for the coast of Guinea.
Our Mp steering towards the Canary Islands,
unfortunately fell in with a Turkish rover off
Sallee: an obstinate engagement ensued; but'
the pirates being superior in number, we were
compelled at length to yield, and were carried
prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the
Moors. I was kept by the captain of the rover
as his own slave; but the rest of the company
were carried up the country to the emperor's
palace.
When my new master went to sea again he
left me on shore to do the usual drudgery of
slaves about his house and garden, and when
he came home from his cruise I was sect on
I
board the vessel to clean and look after the ship.
Many a sleepless night I spent in that cabin,
maurning over my hard fate in being condemned
to perpetual slavery, from which I saw no likeli-
'hood of escaping.
As I was young and active my master found
me constant employment, and made me assist in
building a little cabin in the middle of the long-
boat belonging to our English ship, which he was
now.fitting up for a pleasure-boat. We fre-
quently went out to fish in this boat; and one
day my master ordered us to have every thing
clean, and fit for the accommodation of several of
his friends, who were going on a party of plea-
sure with him,.
Three-fuse.es, with powder and ball, a case of
liquors, and a quantity of provisions, were sent
on board the boat on the appointed day, and I,
a Moorish slave, and a boy, were lying on our
oars, waiting the arrival of the company, when
our master came to the beach in great haste, and
ordered us to row out into the bay to catch some
fish as expcditiously as possible, as his guests
- were not going to sail that day, but were to sup
at his house with other company.
At this moment the hope of making my escape
darted into my mind. Beside the liquor and
provision on board, I knew there was plenty «f
twine in a locker, with a hatchet, a .saw, and.a
ihammer. The wiu 1 blew contrary to my wishes;
but I was resolved, blow which way it would, Jo
;be gone from slavery.
After .w had fished some time, and caught
nothing, (for when I had iish on niy hook I
would .not pull them up) I said to the Moor, this
will .not do; we must go farther put to sea. The
Moor made no objection; and having ran out a
^league, I gave the boy line helm, and slept for-
ward to where the Moor was busied with his fish-
ing tackle, and waking as if I stooped to pick up
something behind him, I took hiju by surprise,
and tossed him overboard.
He rose immediately, (tor he swam like a
cork) and begged to be taken in again; but I
presented a gun, and said, Moloy, I intend you
no harm, if you will not come near tbc boat:
make the best of your way to the shore: I know
you can reach it with ease, Put if you persist
in following me, I >vill shoot you through the
head; for I am resolved iq have my liberty. So
he turned round, ai(d wd\u as fast as possible to
regain the shore.
I was under thu necessity of serving the Moorish
slave thus, for i knew he was not to be trusted.
. Xury, the boy, was aji innocent, fiiiUiful,
•meaning lad; and I knew he would be both use-
ful and faithful to me.
After sailing five days I believed myself to be
safe from pursuit, and ventured near the coast,
and cast anchor near the mouth of a little river.
I could not tell what latitude or what country we
,were in, MY aim in coming to the shore was
to get fresh water, and as soon as it was dark I
intended swimming on shore for that purpose;
j but no sooner had the day closed, than we heard
the most dreadful roaring and howling of wikl
, beasts. Xury was excessively frightened, and
, indeed so was I; but our fears greatly increased
when we heard one of these hideous creatures
come swimming towards our boat. We could not
see him, yet by his blowing we knew him to be a
huge and furious beast. I tired at hint, upon which
he turned ,about and swam to the shore again,
howling moot horribly. We no longer thought
of going on shore: but in the morning we found
that the water at the mouth of the river was
fresh, as the sea-file was out; so; having t!;'u.t
our jar, we again set sail. . ,
After coasting several days longer, we 'came
again to an anchor under a little point .of land.,
e Xury presently discovered a monsitroys
lion, lying on the side of a hillock, fast asleep.
I loaded two of my guns, and firing the first, ex-
pected to have shot him dead; but my aim was
not a good one, for I only wounded him, and
broke one of his legs. He attempted to rise,
but instantly dropped with the most dreadful
roar I ever heard. As he lay struggling for life,
and uttering deep groans, Xury leaped into the
water, with the small gun in his haad, and Dom-
ing close to the lion, put the muzzle of the gun
to his ear, and fired into his head, which put
him in a moment quite out of his misery. But,
alas! the flesh of a lion was no food for us; and
I was sorry to have wasted my powder and shot.
I resolved, however, to have his skin; and hav-
ing got off the hide, we dried it in the sun, and it
served me to lie upon.
After this we bore away to the southward, and
with all the care I had taken of our provisions,
they were nearly exhausted, and I began to fear
we should perish for want of food, when we came
once more in sight of land, and perceived, as we
came nearer the shore, that it was inhabited by
negroes, who were .all perfectly naked. We were
afraid -to land among these people, who came in
crowds to the -beaeh to lo.ok at us; J.mt ,we made
ftt It/, tf/lae/t f>i7
/ <x
f iteS ifTataft * Cf
signs that we wanted something to eat,. upoii;
which two of them ran away, and presently re-
turned with a piece of dried fiesh and some
c,oru: these they brought to the edge of the
water, and then retired to a distance, (for they
were as much afraid of us as W£ of them.) while
Xury swam to the shore and brought it to the
boat.
We made signs of thanks, for we had nothing
1o give in return, when presently two wild beasts
. sprung from a neighbouring thicket, pursuing
each other with the utmost fury. The negroes
fled with great precipitation; but the Creatures,
intent only upon each other, plunged into the
sea. I seized upon my gun and fired upon the
first. lie immediately nvade for the shore, but
died before he reached it.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
the poor negroes at the noise and fire of my gun:
but when they saw the creature actually dead,
tbeir astonishment gave place to joy. It was a
heauttiidly spotted leopard. I gave the flesh to
the. negroes, who are very fond of it, but kept
the skin for myself. Having got some more corn
and some water from them, we again put to sea,
and beat about during eleven days without oifer-
ing to go near the shore. I now °;rew very pen-
sive, and was one morning meditating on my'
misfortunes, when Xury suddenly cried out,
"Master, master; a ship with a sail!" And the
foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs be one of his master's ships
sent to pursue us; but I knew we were got
far enough out of the reach of the Moors. I
jumped up, and immediately saw that it was a
Portuguese ship; and, as I thought, -bound to'
the coast of Guinea for negroes. But when I
observed the course she steered, I was soon
convinced they were bound some other way,
and did not design to come any nearer to the
shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as much
as, I could, resolving to speak with them if pos-
sible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I
should hot be able to come in their way, but
that they would be gone by, before I could make
any signal to them; but after I had crowded my
iftinost, and began to despair, they, it seems,
«aw, by the help of their perspective-glasses,,
that it was some European boat, which they
supposed must belong to some ship that was
lost; so they shortened sail and lay by fur
me, and in about three hours' time I came up with
them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and
in Spanish, and in French, but I understood
none of those languages, but at last, a Scots
sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I
answered him, and told him I was an English'-
man, and that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors of Sallee: then they bid
me come on board, and very kindly took me in,
and a.11 my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any on£
will believe, that I was delivered from such a mi~
serable and almost hopeless condition. I immedi-
ately offered all I had to tie captain of the ship,
ns a return fur my deliverance; but he generous-
ly told me, he would take nothing from me, but
that all I had should be delivered safe to me when
I came to the Brasils. "For," says he, " I have
saved your life on no other terms, than as I would
be glad to be saved myself; and it may one time
or other be my lot to be taken up iifthe same con-
dition: besides," observed he, " when I carry yotf
to the Brasils, so far from your own country, if
I should take from you what little you have, yort
.vill be starved there, and then-1 only take away
c
that life I have given. No," said he, " Senhof
Inglese, (Mr. Englishman,) I will carry you thf-
tbcr in charity; an£l those things you have will
lielp you to buy subsistence there, and your pas-
sage home again.
As he wus charitable in this proposal, so was
he just in the performance to a tittle; for he or-
dered that none of the seamen should offer to
touch any thing I had; he took every thing into
his own possession, and gave me back an exact
inventory of them, that I might have them again
when we came'io land, even so much as my three
earthen jars.
As to my boat, he saw it was a very good one,
and told me he would buy it from me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I
told him he had been so generoXis to me in every-
thing, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which
lie told meJie would give me a note of hand to
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at the Bra-
sils; and when it came there, if any one offered
to give more, he would make it up; he offered
me also sixty pieces of eight for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was unwil-
„ ling to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he
owned it to be just, and offered me this medinm,
that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go
to him, I let the captain have him. ,
We had :i very good voyage to the Brasils, and
arrived in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All
Saints bay, in twenty-two days after. Arid now
I was once more delivered from the most misera-
ble of all conditions of life; and what to do next
with myself I had still to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me,
I can never enough remember: he would take
nothing from me for my passage, gave me twenty
ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the
lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
every thing I hatl to be punctually delivered to
me, and what I was willing to seil, he bought.
In hhort, I made about two hundred and rwenty
pieces of money of all my cargo, and with this
stock I went on shore in the Brasils.
The captain recommended me to the house of
a goad Uonestt man like himself, who had a,u i*-
grnio, as they call it, that is, a plantation and a
sugar-house. I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted myself with the manner of their plant-
ing and making of sugar; and seeing how the
planters lived, and that they grew rich, I resolved,
if I could get a license to settle there, I would
turn planter among them; intending, in the mean-
time, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. For
this purpose I got a letter of naturalization,
purchasing as much land that was uncultivated,
as my money would reach; and formed a plan of
my plantation and settlement, such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to re-
ceive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon,
but born of English parents, whose name was
Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was:
I call him neighbour, because his plantation lay
jiext to mine; and we went on very sociable to-
gether: my stock was but low as well as his; and
we rather planted for food, than any thing else
for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and our land to come into order: so that
the third year we planted some tobacco, and
marie each of us a large piece of ground ready
for planting canes in the year to come; but we
both wanted help; and now I found, more than
before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
Bnt, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder: I had no remedy
but to go on. I had got into an employment
quite remote to my gcuins, and directly contrary
to the life I delighted in, and for which 1 forsook.
my father's house, and broke through all his good
advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper, degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before, and which, if I re-
solved to go on with, I might as veil have stayed
at home, and never have fatigued myself in the
world as I had done. I used often to say to my-
self,—I could have done this as well in England
among my friends, as to have gone five thousand
miles off to do it among strangers ;snd savages
in a wilderness, and at such a distance, as never
to hear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condi-
tion with tbe utmost regret. J had nobody to
converse with but now and then this neighbour;
no work to.be d.pu,c but by the labour of my aw a
c 3
bands; and I used to say, I lived just like a
taan cast away upon some desolate island, that
had nobody there but himself. But iiow just has
it been, and how shouid all men reflect, that»
when they compare their present coudition with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them
to make the exchange, and be convinced of iheir
former felicity by their experience. I say, how
just has it been, that the truly solitary life I re-
flected on in an island, of mere desolation, should
be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared
it with the life which I then led, in which, had I
continued, I had in all probability been exceed-
ingly prosperous and rich!
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying en the plantation, before my kind friend
the captain of the slsip, that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there in providing her
loading, and preparing for her voyage, near thre«
mouths/; when telhng him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: "Senhor Inglese," said he,
for so he always called me, " if you will give me
letters and a procuration here in form, with or-
ders to the person who has your money in Lon-
don, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such
persons as I shsU direct, and in such goods as
are propei- for this country, I will bring you th^
produce of them, (God willing) on my return;
tmt since human affairs arc all subject tochnnges
and disasters, I would have yoa give orders but
for one hundred pounds sterling, which you say
is.half your stock, and let the hazard be run for
the first; so that if that come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry,
you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply."
This was wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best course I could take; so I accordingly
prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I
liad left my money, and u procuration to the
Portuguese capiain as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full ac-
f ount of all my adventures, my slavery, escape,
and how I had met with the Portuguese captain
fit sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and in
what condition I was now in, with all other ne-
cessary directions for my supply; and when, this
honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means,
by some of the English merchants there to scud
over uot the order only, but a full account of iny
story to a merchant in London, who represented
it effectually to her; wherenpon, she not only
delivered the money, but out of her own pocket
sent the Portugal captain a handsome present for
his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon,
and he brought them all safe to the Brasils;
among which, without my direction, (for I was
too young in my business to think of them) he
had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation,
and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made.; and my good steward the captain had laid
out the money which my friend had sent him as
a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant under bond for six years service;
and would not hear of any consideration, except
a little tobacco, which I would have him accept,
being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all
English manufactnres, as cloth, stuffs, baize, and
things particularly valuable and desimble in the
country, I found: means to sell them to a very
§reat advantage; so that I may say I lad more
tiian four times the value of my first cargo, and
was now i«finitely beyond my poor neighbour, I
moan in the advancement of my plantation; for
the first tiling I did, I bought me a negvoe slave,
and an European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from
Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made
the very means of our greatest adversity, so was .
H with me. I went on the next year with great
success in my plantation; I raised fifty great
rolls of tobacco on my own ground more than I
had disposed of for necessaries among my neigh-
bours; and these fifty rolls being of above one
hundred pounds weight, we well cured and laid
by again the return of the fleet from Lisbon*
And HOW, increasing in business and wealth, my
head began to be full of projects and undertak-
ings beyond my reach; such as are indeed often
the ruin of the best heads in business.
Having now lived almost four years in the
Brasils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very
well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance
and friendship auunig my fellow planter*, as well
as among the merchants of St. Salvadore, which
was our port; and that in my discourse among
them, I had frequently given them an account of
my two voyages tp the coast of Guinea, the man-
ner of trading with the negroes there, and how
easy it >vas to purchase upon the coast for trifles,
(such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets,
bits of glass, and the like) not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c. but negroes,
for the service of the Brasils, in great numbers.
The planters always listened very attentively
to my conversation on this subject; but espe-
cially to that part « hich related to the buying of
negroes, which was a trade at that time not far
entered into; but as far as it was, had been car-
ried on by the permission of the kings of Spain
and Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock;
so that few negroes were bought, and those were
excessively dear.
Being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to we
the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had conversed
with them about the last night; and they came
fo make a proposal to me: and after enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me that they had a
mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they
Lad all plantations as well as I, and were strait-
ened for nothing so much as servants; that, as
they could not publicly sell the negroes when
they came home, so' they desired to make but
otre voyage, to bring the ri'egroes on shore pri-
vately, and divide them among their own plan-
tation's; wishing that I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me',
that 1 should have my equal share of the ne-
groes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed;,
had it been made to any one who had not had a
settlement and plantation of his owrt ta look
after, whfch was in a fair waV of coming to be
very considerable, and with a good stock upon
it: but for me, that -was thus established, and
had nothing' to do but go on? as I had begun for
three or four years more, and to have sent for
the other 1001. from England, and who in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth 30001. or 40001. and
tkat increasing too—for me to think <rf sach *
voyage, was the most preposterous thing that
*ver man in such a situation could be guilty of.
But I, that was bora to be my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer i!. m I could re-
strain my first rambling designs, when my father's
good counsel was lost upen me. In a word, I
iold theni I would go with all my, heart, if. they
would undertake to look after luy plantation iu
my absence, and would dispose of it to suck
as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they
all engaged to do, aud entered into writings or
covenants to do so; t!ud I made a formal will,
disposing of my plantation and effects in ease of
my death, making the captain of the ship that
had saved my iiti?, as before, my universal heir;
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will: one half of the pro-
duce being to himself, and the othcr to be ship-
ped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to pres«m
nry effects and keep, up my plantation. Had I
used half as much prudence to look into my
own interest, and form a Correct judgment of
%\ hat I ought to have done and ought not to have
done, I had certainly aever gone away from SQ
prosperous an undertaking; leaving all the prob-
able views «f thriving circumstances, and ventur-
ing upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its
common hazards, to say nothing of the reason
which I had to expect, particular misfortunes fo
befal myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictales of my fancy rather than my reason; and
accordingly, the ship being tilted out, and the
cargo finished, and all things done as by agree-
ment with my partners in the voyage, I went OD
board in an evil hour again, September 1, 1059,
being the same day eight years that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act
the rebel to their authority, and the fowl to my
own interest.
We had 'been at sea about a fortnight when a
violent hurricane, or tornado, arose, and drove
us «luitc out of our knowledge. For twelve days
we beat about, at the mercy of the winds and
rvaves, expecting to be swallowed up at every
instant. In this distress, the wind still blow ing
very;hard, one of our men, early in the morning,
cried out, "Laud!" And scarcely had we tiiae
to run up on deck to look out, in hopes of .see-
ing whereabouts jn t|ie world.,we were, befos*
D
the ship struck upon a bank of sand; and id a
moment the sea broke over us with such vio-
lence, that we seemed to have but little chance
of escaping with our lives.
Only those persons who have been in the same
dreadful circumstances can imagine the grief and
terror with which we looked on one another, ig-
norant whether we were driven upon an unin-
habited island, or on a coast peopled by sa-
vages; expecting also that the ship would fall
to pieces every moment, by the violence with
which she beat upon the sand.
Our tnate' was the only p'erson on board who
had presence of mind enough to think of throw*
ing the boat over the ship's side, and with great
difficulty we all (eleven of us) got into it, and
strove with our utmost might to row to land;
but aftef we had rowed about a league and a
half from the ship,, a raging wave came rolling;
mountain-like, towards us: we foresaw the event
— the wave overset the boat, and we were all:
swallowed up in a moment.
I saw no more of my unfortunate companions;
for the wave that threw us all into the sea, car*-
ried me a vast way towards the shore, and, hay-
ing spent itself, went back, and left me upon tbs
1$«4 A' Tat>ar-t S/'C-
beach almost dry. I got upon my feet, and en-
deavoured to reach the mainland; 'but another
enormous wave presently overtook me, and bu-
ried me at otlce twenty or thirty feet deep in its
own body, carrying me with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore; while I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim forward with,
all my might. I was ready to burst with holtl-
.ing my breath, when I felt my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly,
gave me breath and new courage.
I stood still a few moments to recover breath,
H'hen another wave, having hurried me along as
before, landed me, or rather dashed me against
a piece of a rock; and that with such force, as
* left me senseless, ai)d indeed helpless, as to 'my
own deliverance; for hud the wave returned
again immediately, I must have btcu suffocated
in the water: but I recovered a little before the
returi} of the wave, and held fast by a, part of
the rock till the waves ablated, and then took
another run, which brought me so near the shore,
that the next wave, though it went over me, ye$
tjid qot so swallow me up .as to carry me away;
•n '«> .
and the next run I took, I got to (he mainland,
where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the
elifts of the shore, and s»t down upon the grass,
•&ee.,ffom danger, and quite out of the reach of
'thfc water.
I was now lantlad and safe on shore, and be-
gan to look up,and thank God that my life was
saved :in a ease which, some minutes before, af-
forded sear,ce any room to hope. I believe it is
impossible to express what the ecstacies and tran-
sports of the soul are when it is thus saved, as I
tilHty say, out of tl«2 very grave:—
"For siuUlen juys, like griefs, confound it first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my
hands, and my whole being, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thou-^
sand gestures and motions which 1 cannot de-
scribe, reflecting upon all my companions that
• were drowned, and that there should not be one
•soul saved but myself; for, as to them, I never
• saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, ex-
cept three of their hats, one cap, and two' shoes
• that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes toward the stranded vessel, and
eould hardly sec it,-it lay so far <ifi; and n«uiu
| cxclaime i, how was it possible I could, get
ou shore!
After I ha i solaced my mind with the com.-
fortable part of my condition, I began to look
round me, to see what kind of a plate I was in,
and what was next to be done; when I soon
found my comforts abate, and that I had had but
a dreadful deliverance. I was wet; had no
clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any
prospecti before me, but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts: and
that which was particularly afflicting to me was,
that 1 had no weapon either to hunt itjid kill any
creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself
against any other creatures that might desire to
kill me for theirs. I had nothing about me but
a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a
box; this was all my provision; and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, so that for a
while 1 ran about like a madman. Night com-
ing upon me, I began, with a ,heavy heart, to
consider what would be nt^Jot if there were any
ravenous beasts in the island, knowing that at
night they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at
D 3
that time was, to get up into a thick ImslrV tr^p,
like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, arid
tvhere I resolved to sit all night, and consider
the next day what death I should die; for as
yet I saw no prospect of life, I walked about
a furlong from the sftbre, to see, Jf'I could find,
pome fresh water to drink, TVhich I did to my
great joy; and having drauk and put a HttUi
tobacco in my moui.h to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and, getting up into it, endeavoured
to place myself so, as that, if I should sleep,
I might not fall. I cht a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defence; and having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept
as comfortably as, I believe, few could have
done in my condition, and found myself the
most refreshed with it, tiiat, I think, I ever was
un such an occasion,
I did iiot a<vake till it was broad day, the
weather clear, and the storm abated, so that the
sea did not rage as before; but that which sur-
prised me most was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night from the sand where she lay, by the
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as
frfr as the rock which I first mentioned, where
I bad been-so bruised by being dashed, against
it: this was within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up-
right, I wished myself on "board, that, at least,
I might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartident in the
tree, 1 looked about me again, and the first thing
I found was the boat, which lay as the wind and
sea had tossed her upon the land, about two
miles on my right'baud,' 1 walked as far as I
could upon the shore to get to her; but found
a tieck, or inlet, of water between me and the
boat, which was about half a mile broad; «o
I canie back, for the present, being more intent
upon gel ting at the ship, where I hoped to fiud
something' for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm,
and the tide ebbed so far out, that I could como
within a quarter of a mile of the ship: so I pull-
ed off my clothes, for the .weather was extremely
hot, and took the water; but when I carte to the
ship, my difficulty was slill greater to know how
to get on board, for as she lay aground and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my
reach to lay hold of: I swam round her twice,
and the second time I spied a small piece of
-rope, winch I wondered I did. not see at first,
hanging down by the fore-chains, so low, that with
little difficulty I got hold of it, and liy the help
of lhat rope got up into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bilged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold, but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand,
or rather earth, that her stern was lifted upon
the bank, and her head low almost to the wa-
ter; by this means all her quarter was free,
and all that part was dry; for you may be
sure my first work was to search and to see
what was spoiled and what was free; and
first I found that all the ship's provisions were
dry, and untouched by the water; and being
very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit and eat
it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great c.ibin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed need enough of to give me
spirits for what was before me. An I now I
wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be very ne-
cessary to me. ':i ' j .;
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had; and this extremity Boused my
application. We had several spare yawls, and
two or three large spafs of wood, ami a spare
top-mast or two' in the ship; I flung as many of
them overboard as I could inanage of their
4weijr1it., tying every one with a rope, that iiiey
might not drift awav; When this was rloue I went
down the ship's side, and pufling them to me, I
tied foqr of them fast together at both ends as
well as I could, in the fonn of a 1-aft; and lay-
mgtwo orthree pieces of plank upon tk.'m cixut*-
ivays, I found I could walk upon it very well,
liut that it was iot able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too ligfit; so I went to work,
•and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-
past into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, xvith a gtt-at deal of labour aiid pains; but
the hope to furnish myself with ttecessuries en-
conraged me to go beyond what I should have
been able to have done upon another occasion.
'.' My raft iris now strong enough to bear any
reasonable Tveilrht; my next care was what t«
•load it yith, and how to preserve what J laid
upon it from the surf of the sea. I first laid all
the planks or board-* upon it that I could get,
and having considered ivell what I most, warned,
I'got three of the seamen's chests, whith J hf*d
broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled
With provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Putch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which
we lived much upon, and a little remainder of
European corn, which had been laid by for some
fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the
fowls were killed; there had bern some barley
and wheat together, but, to my great disappoint-
ment, I found that the rats had eaten and spoiled
it all. As for liquors, 1 found several cases of
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
sonic cordial waters, and in ajl about five or six
gallons of arrack; these I stowed by themselves,
there being no need to put them in the chest, nor
any,room for them. While I was doing {his, I
found the tide began to flow, and I had the mor-
tification tp sje my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim-
ming away. Tin's put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no
more than I wanted for present use, for I was
inore intent upon other things, such as, tools to
work with pn shore: and after |qng searching
I found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed,
a very useful prize tv me, and muclt more v^,
luable than a ship-load of gold would have been
at that time; I got it down to my raft without
losing time to look into it, for I knew in general
what it contained.
> My next care was for some ammunition and
ftrmsi There were two fowling pieces in the
great cabin, and t\vo pistols; these I secured
first with some powder horns, and a small bag
fcf shot; and two rusty swords: with much search
I found two barrels of pun-powder dry and good,
and a third which had taken water; those two I
got to my raft with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to con*
sider how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar( nor rudder; and the least gust
of wind would have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth calm
sea; the-tide rising and setting into the shore;
and what little wind there was blew me towards
the land. Having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and, besides the tools
which were in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a
.hammer; and with this cafgo I put to sea. For
a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well,
only that I found it drive a little distant from
the place where I had lauded before; by which
\
I perceived that there'wds stone indtjgft of
frater, and consequently I hop**! to find
«reek or rivet' there, wjftcJi I might make use oi'
as a port to get to land with my cargov .,-
: It proved to be a ereek; and in endeavouring'
to keep in the m,jdtUe of the stream, t had like,
to have suffered a; second shipwreck, which, had
it been so, would, I think verily, Imve b*oken my
heart; fovr knowii^ notluie; of the e»»s>t, my
raft raw aground at one eiul upon a shoal, amt
my cargo was sliding off towards that end that
was still afloat, I Set my back «gain»t the, chests,
t» keep them in their plates, Imt I wmld not
£hrust orl the raft with all my strength, neither
durst I stir from- the posture I .was in;, but hold-
ing np the chest* with all my might, stood in that
manner near half an hour, hi which tilac.the tjde
flowing, my raft floated again; ami driving up-
higher I found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both skies,
I observed a little cove on the right shore, of
the creek, to which with great pain and difficulty
1 guided my raft, for I wa? not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping Ui tinle to
see some ship at sea, and, therefore resolved to
place myself as near the coast as I could, '|
ing got safe into the cove at high tide,, though
my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust her
upon a flat piece of ground, and there moored
her by sticking my two broken oars into the
ground; one on one side near the end, and one ,
on the other side near the other end; and thijs
I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft
and all my cargo safe on shore,
My next work was to view the country, and
seek a proper place for my habitation, and where
to stow my goods, to secure them from whatever
might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not,
whether on a continent or on an island; Whe-
ther inhabited or not inhabited; whether in
danger pf wild beasts or not. There was. a hill
not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and seemed ,to over-top some
. other hills which lay as in a ridge from it north-
ward. I took qut one, of the fowling pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; a\id
thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the
top of that hill, where, after I had with great la-
bour and difficulty reached the top, I saw, to my
great affliction, that I was in aa island environed
every way with the sea, no laud to be seen, ex-
cept some rocks which Jay a great way off, and
K
two small islands less than this I was cast on,
which lay about three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island which I was in was
barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe, un-
inhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, how-
ever, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but knew not their kinds; neither when I killed
them, could I tell what was fit for food, and
what not. At my coming back, I shot at a grea£
bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side
of a great wood: I believe it was the first gun
that had been fired there since the creation of
the world. I had no sooner fired, but from all
parts of the wood there arose an innumerable
number of fowls of many sorts, making a con-
fused screaming and crying, every one accord-
ing to his usual note; but not one of any kind
that I knew: as for the creature that I killed, I'
took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and
beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws
more than common; and its flesh \tas carrion
and good for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I carue back to
my raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo orr.
shore, which took me up the rest of that day:
what to do with myself at night I knew not, ,non
indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie.
down on the ground, not knowing bnt somc
wild beast might devour me, though I afterward^
found there Was really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I L>«rricadoed
myself round with chests and boards that I had
brought on shore, and made a kind of an hut for
my shelter, yet I dreaded to lie down, fearing
the attack of wild beasts; none however came
.near me, and I passed the night in silence and in
safety.
On the following day I again swam to the ship,
for I knew that the first storm that came would
dash her to pieces, and I resolved to get every
thing on shore that would be useful to me before
I attempted to fix my habitation.
I made a second raft, which I loaded with a
good hammock and plenty of bedding, all the
men's clothes I could find, with sails and canvas,
and as much of the rigging, ropes, and twine, as
I could get; bags of nails, a screw-jack, two
dozen of hatchets, and that most useful thing a
grind-stone.
I was under some apprehensions during my
absence from the land, that my provisions might
E 2
be devoured ou shore ; but when I came I found
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature
like u wild-cat upon one of the chests, which
when I came towards it, ran away to a little dis-
tance, and then stood still; she sat very com-
posedly, and looked full in my face, as it'she had
a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun at her, but as she did not understand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned, nor did she offer
to stir; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit,
though I was not very free of it, for my store was
not great. However, I spared her a small piece,
aud she went to it, smelled at it, and eat it, and
looked (as if pleased) for more; but I thanked
her, aiid could spare no more; so she marched
off.
- i Having got my second cargo on shore, I went
to work to make a tent, with a sail and some
poles which I cut for that purpose; into this
tent I brought every thing that 1 knew would
spoil, either with rain or the sun. Aud I piled all
the empty casks and chests in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it against any attacks of man or
beast. I then blocked up the door of my tent
with some boards, and spreading one of the beds
Nvhich I had brought on shore, I lay down with
my gun and pistols close beside me, and slept
very soundly all night.
After several other voyages to the ship, I had
the good fortune to find a large hogshead of bis- .
cuif, another of rum, a box of sugar, and a bar-
rel of fine flour. There were more provisions
on board, but they were all spoiled by the salt
water. I also on the same day discovered a
locker, with three razors, a large pair of scissars,
and a dozen knives and forks in it, and thirty-
six pounds in money. The money was now a
mere useless drtig, but hoping it might hereafter
serve me, I wrapped it in canvas and took it
with me.
I had now been thirteen days on shore, and
had been eleven times on board the ship. In
the last visit I loaded my raft too heavily, and it
overset. By this accident I lost a quantity of
iron that would have been very useful to me,
but th« planks and cables drifted on shore with
ihe tide.
Had the fine weather continued, I believe I
should have brought away the whole ship piece-
meal, but on the night of my last visit the wind
blew very bard all night, and when I left my hut
E 3
in the morning the ship was no more to be seen'.
I was greatly affected by this event: it seemed
to me that I had lost my last friend, and was now
more deserted and alone than I had been before.
I sat down on the ground to gaze on the rock
where the ship had been, and tears ran down rtiy
cheeks, till my kind dog came and fawned upon
me. His caresses banished my melancholy
thoughts, and I rose up resolved to make the
.best of my condition; and to this end, I began
to consider what sort of a dwelling I should
construct, that would best secure me from the
attacks of savages, or wild beasts, if any sncb
should visit the island. i
In determining on a situation I consulted
several things which I found would be proper
for rne; first, health and fresh-water; secondly,
shelter from the heat of tin* sun; thirdly, secu-
lity from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; fourthly, a view of the sea, that, if a
ship came in sight, I might not lose the chance
of deliverance :— lay only hope and anxious ex-
pectation.
I fixed at length upon a small plain that sloped
towards the sea shore, and lay at the foot of a
iiijb perpendicular rock, which was so steep that
nothing could come down to assault me from
above. I made a half circle on the plain, round 3
hollow part of the rock, into which I drove rows
of slakes, about five feet high, and standing about
six inches from each other. I then piled rows
of pieces of cable close to the stakes, and within
them I drove other stakes leaning against them
about,two feet and a half high; and this fence,
which cost me much time, and excessive labour,
was so strong that nothing could break through
it. I made no door-way, but used, for enter-
ing my habitation, a short ladder, which, when
.1 was on the top of my wall, I lifted over after
me, so that I tbought myself completely fenced
in from all the world.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite per-
severance and difficulty, I carried all my riches,
provisions, ammunition, and stores. I next made
it large tent within my wall, and a smaller one
within that, aud covered the whole with a tar-
paulin to secure them from the heavy rains;
and in the small tent I swung my hammock,
which had belonged to the mate of the ship,
and there lay very comfortably. . .
My next operation was to work my way into
-Ihe rock; and I soon made a cave behind my
tent, which served as a kitchen and cellar t*i
my house.
It cost me much labour before all these thing?
were brought to perfection. A storm of rain
falling at this time from a thick dark cloud,
accompanied with a sudden flush of lightning,
and after that a great clap of thunder, a thought
darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself—' Oh, my powder!' My very heart sunk
within me, when I reflected that at one blast all
my powder might be destroyed; on which not
only my defence but the providing my food, as I
thought entirely depended. I was not anxious
about my own danger; though, had the powder
took fire, I had never known who had hurt me.
Such an impression did this make upon me,
that, after the storm was over, I laid aside all
my works; my building and fortifying, and ap-
plied myself to make bags and boxes to separate
my powder, in hopes that, whatever might hap-
pen, it might not all take fire at once; and to
keep it so apart, that it should not be possible.
to make one part fire another. I fmished this
work in about a fortnight: and I think my
powder, which was in all about a hundred and
forty pounds weight, was (divided in not less thatt
;\ hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from
that, so I placed it in' my new cave, which I
called my kitcheii; and the rest I hid up and
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where
I laid it.
In the interval of time,, while all this was do-
ing, I went out once every day with my gun in
•search of food. 1 soon found that there were
plenty of goats in the island; but they were so
subtle and swift of foot, that I could not come
near them. After many fruitless attempts, I
observed, that if they were on the rocks and
I in the valley, they fled with far more preci-
pitation than when I descended from the rocks
when they were feeding in the valley. I there-
fore concluded that the position of their eyes,
was such, that they could not readily see objects
above them. I found this opinion to be verified
when, having climbed the rocks immediately
above where they were feeding, I had a fan-
mark, and shot a she-goat which was •giving
suck to a little kid beside her.
I was very much grieved to have shot the old
one; and when I took her up to carry her home',
the poor little kid followed me, bleating for its
dam. I carried the kid over my enclosure, and
offered it food, intending to have bred it up tame;
but the poor thing ti'buld not eat, and after two
days it diod.
The goat served me' as meat a long time; for I
cat very sparingly, and saved my provisions, espe-
cially my bread, as much as I possibly could.
I must now give some little account of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which, it may
well be supposed, were not few. I had a dismal
prospect of my condition; for, as I was not,cast
away upon that island without bting driven by a
violent storm quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage, some hundreds of leagues out of
the ordinary course of the trade of mankind,
I' had great reason to consider it as a deter-
mination of Heaven, that in this desolate place,
and in this desolate manner, I should end my
life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself;
why Providence should thus completely nun his
creatures, and render them so absolutely miie*- •.
able, so without help abandoned, so entirely de-
pressed, that it would hajrdly be ration?! to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me
to check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and
particularly one day walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon
the subject of my present condition, when rea-
son, as it were, expostulated with me in this
way: 'Well,you are in a desolate condition, it is
true; but, pray, remember, where are the rest of
you? Did not you come eleven of you into the
boat? Where are the ten? Why were not they
saved, and you lost? Why were you singled
out? Is it better to be here or there!" And
then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be
considered with the good that is in themf and
with what attended aggravations they might
have.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I
was furnished for my subsistence, and what
would have been my case if it had not happened,
that the ship floated from the place where she
first struck, and was driven so near to the shore,
that I had time to get all these things out of her.
What would have been my ease, if I bad been.
obliged to live ia the condition in which I at first
came on shore, without the necessaries of life,
or any means to procure them? Particularly,
said I,' aloud, what could I have done without
a gun; without ammunition: without any tools
to work with; without clothes, bedding, a tent,
or any manner of covering? And that now I
had all these in a sufficient quantity, and was in
a fair way to provide myself in such a manner
as to live without uiy gun, when my ammunition
was spent.
And now, being to enter into a melancholy
relation of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps,
as was never heard of in the world before, I
shall taUe it from its beginning, and continue it
in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of
September when I first set foot upon this horrid
island; when the sun, being to us, in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head; for I
reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the
latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the
line. ,
After I had been there about ten or twelve
days, it came into my thoughts that I should
lose my reckoning of time for want of books and
pen and ink> and. should even forget the sabbatk
days from the working days; but to prevent this,
I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capi-
tal letters; and making it into a great cross, I
set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz.
I came on shore here mi the 30fA of September,
1659. Upon the sides of this square post, I cut
every day a notch with my knife, and every se-
venth notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place \\e are to observe, that among
the many things which I brought out of the ship
in the several voyages which I made to it, I got
several things of less value, but not at all less use-
ful to me, which I omitted setting down before;
as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and
carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspec-
tives, charts, and books of navigation; all which
I huddled together, whether I might want them
or not: also I found three very good bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England,
tfnd which I had packed up among my things;
some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or thrce popish prayer-books, and several
other books, all which 1 carefully secured. And
I must not forget that we h;td in the ship a dog
and two cats, of whose eminent history I may
have occasion to say something in its place; for
I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship himself, and
swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years. I wanted nothing
that he could do for me, nor any company that
he could make up to me: I only wished to have
him talk to me, but that was impossible.
I now found 1 wanted many things, notwith-
standing all that I had amassed together; and of
these, that of ink was one; as also a spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pens, and thread. As for linen, I soon
learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I undertook
go on heavily, and it was near a whole year before
I Lad entirely fmished my pale, or surrounded my
hubitatiou. The piles, or stakes, which were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more
by far in bringing hou;e; so that I spent some-
times two days in cutting and bringing home one
of those posts, and a third day in drivmg it into
the ground: driving these posts, 6r piles, was a
very laborious and tedious work indeed.
But what need had I to be concerned with the
tcdiousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I
had time enough to do it in; nor had I any other
employment if that had been over, at least, that
I could foresee; except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did more or less every
day.
I now began 1o consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstances which I was reduced to:
and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing,
not so much to leave them to any that were to
come after me, (for I 'was' likely to have but few
heirs) but to relieve my thoughts from dailyporing
upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as luy
reason began now to master my despondency, and
to set the good against the evil, that I might have
something to distinguish my case from worse; I
stated very impartially, like debtor and cTeditor,
(the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I
suffered) thus :—
v
F2
EVIL.
I am cast upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out and se-
parated, as it were, from
all the world, to be miser-
able.
. I am divided from man-
kind: a solitary one, ba-
nished from all human so-
ciety.
I have no clothes to
cover me.
I am without any de-
fence, or means to resist
auy violence •i man or
beast.
I have no soul to speak
to or to relieve »e.
GOOD.
15ut I am alivet and ncrt
drowned, as all my ship's
company were.,
But lam singled out too
from all the ship's crew to
be spared from death; and
JIE that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
But I am not starved
and perishing on a barre^t
place, affording no suste-
nance.
But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.
But I am cast on an is-
land where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there!
But God wonderfully sent
the ship in near enough to
the short, I have gotten out
so many necessary things at
will enable me to supply
myself even as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted tes-
timony that there was scarcely any condition in
the world so miserable, but there was something
negative, or something positive, to be thankful
for in it; and let this stand as a direction, from
the experience of the most miserable of all con-
el it ions in this world, that we may always find in
'it something to comfort ourselves from, and to
set in the description of good and evil on the cre-
dit side of the account.
Having notv brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, I came by imperceptible degrees
into that state of contentment and resignation,
that my labour was no longer a cheerless toil; but
! looked with pleasure on the many comforts and
conveniences which my labour produced for me.
Having finished my dwelling, I applied myself
to make a table aud chair, the want of which was
a daily inconvenience to me. I was particularly
awkward when I first begau this work, and a skil-
ful carpenter would have laoshed to see the
clumsy manner in which I handled my saw, adze,
and hatchet; yef, by application and contrivance,
I found at last that I overcame all my difficulties,
and made not only my chair and table, but
shelves, and many other conveniences, which
P3
made my tent not only more commodious, but
gave it that look of order, neatness, and arrange-
ment, which is at all times so pleasing to the eye,
whether in a cave on a desert island, or in a
splendid palace.
My cave seemed now like a general magazine
of all useful things ready to the hand; and I
rejoiced heartily to find my stock of necessary
stores even larger than I had at first supposed
1hcm to be.
My table and chair were a great solace to me;
and every day, as long as my ink lasted, I kept a
journal of my occupations, my observations, and
of every thing that befel me; of which journal
I shall give a copy, though in it will be told all
these particulars over again.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Ro-
binsou Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dread-
'ful storm in the offing, came on shore on this
dismal, unfortunate island, which I call T/ie
Island of Despair; all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost
dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting
myself at the dismal circumstances I was brought
to, viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, wear
pou, nor place to fly to; and, in despair of any
relief, saw nothing but death before me; either
that I should be devoured by w ild beasts, mur-
dered by savages, or starved to death for want
of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree,, for fear of wild creatures; but slept soimtlly,
though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floaled with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the
island. This was some comfort, as I hoped if
the wind abated I might get on board, and get
&ome food and necessaries out of her for my re-
lief, which I did. I went upon the sand as near
to the ship as I could, and then swam on board.
This day also it continued raining, though with
no wind at all.
From the 1st to the 14th was entirely spent in
making several voyages to get all I could out of the
ship, which I brought en shore every tide, upon
.rafts. Much rain also in these days, though wiih
some intervals of fair weather: but it seems this
\vas the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft and all the goods
I had got upon it; but, being in shoal water, and
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many
of them when the title was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with?
some gusts of wind; during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods'
which I had saved, that the rain might net spoil
them. .
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation;
greatly concerned to secure myself fro;n any at-
tack in the night, cither from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I fixed upon a proper place under
a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my en-
campment, which I resolved to strengthen with a
work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles,
lined within with cable, and without with turf.
From the 20th to the 30th I worked very hard
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation
though some part of the time it rained exceed-
ingly hard.
The 31st in the morning I went out into the
island with my gun' to see for some food, and
discover the country, when I killed a shergoar,
and her kid followed me home, which afterward?
died, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock,
and lay there for the first night, making it as
large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing'
my hammock upon. The next day I set up all
my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber
which made my raft, and with them formed a
fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went 'out with my gun, and killed'
two fowls, like ducks, which were very good.
In the afternoon; went to work to make my
table. The next morning I began to order my
times of work, of going out with my gun, time
of sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every
morning I walked out with my gun for two or
three hours, if it did not rain; then employed
myself to work till about ten; then eat what
I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lav
down to sleep, the weather being excessively
hot; and then in the evening to work again.
The working part of this day and the next were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was
yet but a very sorry workman, though time aitd ne'
cessity made me a complete 'natural mechanic soon
after, as I believe they would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my pun
and my dog, ;:ud killed a wild cut; her skin
pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing:
every creature I killed I took off their skins
and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-
shore, I saw many sorts of fowls, whose species
I did not know; but was surprised and almost
frighted with two or three seals, which, while I
was gazing at, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped from me for that
time.
Nov. C. After my morning walk, I went to
work with my table again and finished it, though
not to my liking; nor was it long before I learn-
ed to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair wea-
ther The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and a part of the
12th (for the llth was Sunday) I took wholly up
to make hie a chair, and with much ado brought
it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me:
and even in the making, I pulled it to pieces se-
veral times.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
and exceedingly cooled the earth; but it was
accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my
powder.
As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate
toy stock of powder into as many little parcels
as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent
in. making little square chests of boxes, whicll
might hold about a pound, or two pounds, at,
most, of powder; and so putting the powder in,
I stowed it in places as secure and remote from
*ne another as possible. On one of Jhcse three
days I killed a large bird that was good to eat,
but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind
my tent into the rock, to make room for my
further conveniences. Three things I wanted
exceedingly for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a
shovel, and a wheel-barrow, or basket; so I
desisted from my work and began to consider
how to supply these wants, and make me some
tools. As for a pick-axe, I made use of the iron
crows, which were proper enough, though heavy:
but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this
was. so absolutely necessary, that indeeti I cou!4
do nothing effectually without it; but what kind
of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of that wood, or one like
it, which in the Brasils they call the iron-tree,
for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home too, with difficulty
enough, for it was very heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, made me
a long while employed upon this machine; for
I worked it effectually by little and little into
the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that the broad
part having no iron shod upon it at the bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the use which I had occasion to
put it to; but never was a shovel, J believe, made
after that fashion, or so long in making.
'I was still deficient of a basket, or wheel-bar-
row; a basket I could not make by any means,
having no such things as twigs that would bend,
to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
oat; and as to the wheel-barrow, I fancied I
could make all but the wheel, but that I had no
notion of, neither did I know how to go about
1 /
it; besides, I had no possible way to make the
iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel
to run in, so I gave it Wer; and for carrying
away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made me a thing like a hod which the labourers
carry mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making
of the shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and
the attempt which I made in vain to make a
wheel-barrow took me up no less than four days,
excepting my morning walk with my gun, which
I .seldom neglected; and very seldom failed to
bring home something to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood
still, because of my making these tools; when
they were finished I went on, and working every
day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent
eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening
my cave, that it might hold my goods commo-
diously.
During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate
toe as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a
dining-room, and a cellar: as for my lodging,,
I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the
wet season of the year, it rained so hard that I
G
could not keep myself dry, which causal me
afterwards to cover all my place within my pale
with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my
cave or vault finished, when on a sudden (it
seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side,
so much that in short it frighted me, and not
without reason too; for if I had been under it,
I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this
disaster I had a great deal of work to do over
again; for I had the loose earth to carry out,
and which was of more importance, I had the
ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no
more would, come down,
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it
accordingly, and got two shores or posts pitched
upright to the top, with two pieces of board^
across over each post; this I finished the next
day; and setting more posts up with boards,
in about a week more I harf the roof secured;
and the posts standing in rows, served me for
partitions to part oft' my house.
Dec. 17. from this day to the twentieth I
placed shelves; and knocked' up nails in the
posts to hang every tiling up that could be hung
up; and now I began to be iii some order within
doors.
Dec. 20: Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house and fixed
Up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to or-
der my victuals Upon, but boards began to be
very scarce with me; also I made' me another
table.
Dec. 24 and 25. Much rain; no stirring
6Ut.
Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
thart before, arid pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed
another so that I caught it, and led it home in
a string; when I had it home, I bound and
splintered up its leg, which was broken. N. B. 1
took such care of it that it lived, and the leg
grew we'll, and as strong as ever; by nursing
it so long it grew tame, and red upon the little
green before my door, and would not go away.
This was the first time that I entertained a
thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder an*
shot was all spent.
G 2
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats, and no
breezes'; so that there was no stirring abroad^
except in the evening for food. This time I
spent in putting all my things in order within
doors. *|
January 1; Very hot still; but I went abroad
early and late with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening going further
into the vallies, which lay towards the centre of
the island, I found there was plenty of goats,
though exceedingly shy, and hard to come at;
however, I resolved to try if I could not bring
my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day I went
out with my dog, and set him upon the goats;
but I was mistaken, for they all faced about
upon him; and he knew his danger too well,
for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence, or wall, which,
being still jealous of my being attacked by some-
body, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal. It
is sufficient to observe, that I was no less time,
than from the third of January to the four-
teenth of April, working, finishing, and per-
feeling this wall, though it was no more than
twenty-four yard* in length; being a half-
circle from one place in the rock to another
place about eight yards from it; the door of
the cave being in the centre behind it.
All this time I Worked very hard, the rains
hindering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
together; but I believed I should never be per-
fectly secure till this wall was finished. It is
scarcely credible what inexpressible labour
every thing was done with; especially the bring-
ing piles out of the woods and driving them into,
the ground, for I made them much bigger than
I needed to have done.
When this Avail was finished, and the outside
double fenced with a turf-wall raised up close
to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive any thing like a habitation-; and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter
upon a remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the
•woods for gam* every day when the rain per-
mitted me, and made frequent discoveries in
these walks of something or other to my ad-
vantage; particularly I found a kind of wild
03
pigeons, that built not, as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather, as house-pigeons, in the holes
of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did
so; but when they grew older they all flew
away, which perhaps was for want of feeding
them, for I had nothing to give them. How-
ever, I frequently found their nests, and got
their young ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing of my household
affairs, I found myself in want of many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for
me to make. For instance, I could never make
a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or
two, but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many
weeks about it: I could neither put in the heads
or join the staves so true to one another as to
make them hold water, therefore I gave that
attempt over.
There was yet another material want unsup-
plied, namely, candles: I did at length find a
substitute for them. When I killed a goat I
saved the tallow, and put it into a little dish
made of clay and baked in the sun. I put a
wick of oakum into the tallow; and had a lamp
Which gave me light enough to read, write, or
Work by, though it did not yield so clear and
steady a flame as that of a candle.
It happened, \vhen I was arranging my stores
on the shelves, that I found a bag which had
once been filled with corn for the, fowls we had
on board the ship. There appeared to be only
a few dry husks remaining, which I shook out,
intending to fill the bag with gun-powder. , It
was a little before some great rains which fell,
that I emptied these husks by the side of the
rock; and about a month afterwards, when I. did
not so much as recollect what I had thrown
away there, I savr some green stalks shooting
out of the earth; and perfectly astonished was
I, in a little time, to see these shoots ripen into
ten or twelve ears of English barley.
I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto I had looked upon
the actions of this life, no otherways than only
as the events of blind chance and fortune; but
now the appearance of this barley, flourishing
in a barren soil, and my ignorance in not con-
ceiving how it could come there, made me con-
clude that miracles were, not yet ceased: nay,
I even thought that God had appointed it to
grow there without any seed, purely for my sus-
tenance in this miserable and desolate island.
And, indeed, such great effect had this upon me,
that it often made me melt into tears, through
a grateful sense of God's mercies ; and the greater
still was my thankfulness, when I perceived about
this little field of barley some rice-stalks alsu
wonderfully flourishing.
Thus pleased' in mind I concluded there must
be more corn in the island, and therefore made .
a diligent search narrowly among the rocks; but
not being able to find ;any, on a sudden it came
into my mind how I had shaken the husks of
corn out of the bag, and then my admiration
ceased, with my gratitude to the divine Being,
as thinking it was but natural, and not to Be
conceived a miracle; though, even the man-
ner of its preservation, might have made me
own it as a wonderful event of God!s kind pro-
vidence. :,
It was about the latter end of June when tin;
ears of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully, together with twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, expecting I one day should reap the .
fruits of my labour; yet four years were ex-
pired before I would allow myself to eat any
bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook
it up without baking.
But to return to my journal.
I worked excessively hard three or four
months to get my wall done; and the 14th of
April I closed it up, contriving to go into it,
not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went
up by it to the top, and then pulled it up after
me, and let it down on the inside. This was
a complete enclosure to me; for within I had
room enough, and nothing could come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my
wall.
But what do all human pains and industry
avail, if the blessing, of God do not crown our
labours? Or " who can stand before the Al-
mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm?"
The very next day .after this wall was finished
I had almost had all my labour overthrown at
once, and myself killed. The case was thus:
as I was busy in the inside of it, behind iny tent,
just in the entrance into my cave, on a sudden 1
found the earth came tumbling down from the
roof of my. cave, and from the edge of the hill
over my head, and two of the posts I bad set ul>
in the cave cracked in a most frightful mariner.
1 was heartily scared; but thought nothing of
what was really the caase, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some of
it had done before; and, for fear I should be
buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and,
not thinking myself safe there neither, I got over
my wall, for fear of the pieces of the hill, which
I expected might roil down upon me. I wftS
no sooner slept down upon the tirm ground than
I plainly felt it was a terrible earthquake, for
the ground I stood upon shook three times in
about .eight minutes, with three such shocks as
would have overturned the strongest building
that *could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I
never heard in all my life. I perceived also
that the very sea was put into violent motion
fey it; and I believe the shocks >vere stronger
under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having
never felt the like, or conversed with any one
had, that I was like one dead or stupified;
and the motion of the earth made my stomach
sick, like one that was tqssed at sea; but the
noise of the falling of the rock, roused me iron}'
the stupified condition I was in, and I thougat
of nothing then but the hill falling upon uly.
tent, and all my household goods, and buryii..,
all at once: and this sunk my very soul with. .
me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I fe'.-c .:
more for some time, I began to take courage;
and yet I had not heart enough to get over my
wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but
sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and
disconsolate, not knowing what to da. All this
while I had not the least serious rehgious
thought, nothing but the common " Lord have
mercy upou me!" and when it was over, that
%veni. away too.
^Vllile I sat thus, I found the air overcast,
and grown cloudy, as jf it would rain; and in
Jess than half ^n hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane: the sea was all on a sudden covered
over with foam and froth, the shore was covered
with the breach of the water, the trees were
torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm it
was. This held about three hours, and then
began to abate; and in two hours more it was
calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came
into my mind, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earth-
quake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought
my spirits began to revive, and the rain also
helping to persuade me, I went in, and sat down
in my tent; but the rain was so violent that my
tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and I
was forced to go into my cave, though very much
afriiul and uneasy for fear it should full on my head.
This, violent rain forced me to a new wort,
viz. to cut a hole ,through my new fortification
• hke a sink to Jet water go out, which would
else have drowned my cave. After I had been
in my cave some time, and found no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed ; and now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little
store, and took a.small sup of rum, which how-
I did then, and always very sparingly,
knowing I could have no more when that was
gone.
It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir
abroad; but my mind being more composed,
I began to think of what I had best do; con-
ceiving, that if the island was subject to these
earthquakes, there would be no living for mt in
a cave, but I must consider of building me some
little mi! in an open place, which I might sur-
round with a wall as I had done heic, and so
make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
but concluded, if I staid where I was, I should
certainly, one,time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my
tent from the place where it stood, which was
just under the hanging precipice of the hill, and
which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly
fall upon my tent. And I spent the two next
days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con-
triving where jmd how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made
me that I never slept in quiet; and yet the
apprehension of lying abroad without any fence
almost equal to it: but still when 1 looked
H
about, and saw how every tbini; was put in order,
how pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe
from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me, that it
would require a vast deal of time to do this,
and that I must be contented to run the venture
where I was, till I had formed a camp for my-
self, and had secured it so as toTfcittaver it. So
with this resolution I composed myself for »
time, and resolved that I would go to work witlr
all speed to build me a wall with piles anti,
cables, &c. in a circle as boforc, antl s#t my
tent up in it when it was finished; but that I
would venture to stav where 1 was till it was
< -
finished and fit to remove iuto. Thi; was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I bega/i to con-
sider of means to put Uiib. resolve into execution,
but I was at,a greal loss about my tools; I had.
three large axe*, and abundance of hatchets,
(for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the
Indians,) but with much chopping and culling:
knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches;
and though I had a grind-stone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. At length 1 contrived"
u kind of wheel with a string, to turn it with my'
foot, that I might hare both my hands at libertr.
I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least not to take notice how it was done, though
since I have observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grindstone was very large and
heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work
to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 20. These two whole days I look-
up in grinding my tools, my machine for turning
my grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived mv bread had
been low a great while, now I took a survey of
it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day,
which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning looking toward* the
sea-side, the tide being low, I saw something lie
on the shore bigger than ordinary; and when
I came to it, it proved to be a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck ,of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the late hurri-
cane; and looking towards die wreck itself, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water
than It used to do. jOn examining the barrel, I
found it was a barrel of gun-powder, but it had
taken water, and tlie powder was caked as hard
as a stone; however,:! rolled it further ou shore
for the present. ,
When I came down to the ship, I found It
strangely removed; the forecastle, which lay
before buried in saud, was heaved up at least six
feet; and the stern, which was broke to pieces,
and parted from (he rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed
up, as it were, and cast on one side, and the sand
was thrown so high on that side next her stern,
that where there was a great place of water be-
,fore, sp that I could not come within a quarter
of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could
HOW walk quite up to her when the tide was out;
I was surprised with this at first, but soon con-
cluded it .must have been done by the earth-
quake.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the
design of removing my habitation; and I busied
myself that day in searching whether I could
make any way into the ship; but I found no-
thing was to be expected of that kind, for that
all the inside of the ship was choaked up with
sand,.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut'a piece
of a beam through, which I thought held the up-
per part or quartor-deck together, and when I
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as
I could from the side which lay highest; but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for*
that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport; when just going to leave off, I caught a
young dolpjiin. I made a long line of rope-
yaru, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught
• fish enough, us much as I cared to cat; all which,
I dried in the'sun, and eat them dry.
May 5 to 14. I went every day to the wreck,
and got a great deal of pieces of timber and
board, or plank, and two or three hundred weight
of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I
could cut a piece off the roll of lead by placing
the edge of one hatchet, and driving it in with
'the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half
in the-Water, I could not make any blow to drive
the hatchet.
May 16. It had blowed hard in the night,
and the wreck appeared more broken by the
force of the water; but I staid so long in the
woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented me going to the wreck that day.
'. |Hay 24. Every day to this I worked on th".
H3
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some
things so much with the crow, that the first blow-
ing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to laud that day but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some Bra-
zil pork in it, but the salt water und sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th,
of June, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed, during this part of
my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out;
and by this time I had gotten timber and plank,
and irpjn-work, enough to have built a good
boat, jf I had kumvn. how; and alsp I got at
several times, and in several pieces, near a hun-
dred weight of sheet-lead. .
June 16. Going down to tlie sea-side, I found
a large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I
had seen, which, it seems was only my misfor-
tune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity;
for h,ad I happened to be on the other side of
the island, I might have had hundreds of them
every day, as I found afterwards.
June. 17. I spent in cookiqg the turtle: I found
in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me
at that time the most savoury and pleasant that
I ever tasted in my lite, having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I landec| in this horrid
place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold;.and I
was something chilly, which I knew was not
usual in that latitude:
June 19. Very ill and shjvering, as if the
weather had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in
my head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to death
with the apprehensions of my sad condition—to
be sick and no help! Prayed to God for the
first time since the storm off Hull; but scarcely
knew what I said or why, my thoughts being all
confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shiver-
ing, and then a violent head-ache; but on the
i;4th I was much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held
me seven hours; cold fit and hot, wijh faiirt
sweats after it.
j une 2G. Better; and having no victuals fff*
eat, took my gun, but found myself very weak;
however, I killed a she-goat, and with much
difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it,
«nd eat; I would fain have stewed it, and made
some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I
• Jay in bed all day, aud neither eat nor drank.
I was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak,
I had no strength to stand up, or to get myself
Tany water to drink.
And now when I began to be sick, and a dis-
tinct view of the miseries of death came to place
itself before me; when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and
nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, awak-
ened, and I began to reproach nlyself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncom-
mon wickedness, provoked the justice of God to
deal with me in so vindictive a manner. , ,
These reflections oppressed me for the second
qr third day of my distemper; and in the vio-,
lence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my conscience, extorted some words
ifrom me like praying to God, though I cannot
say they were either a prayer attended with de-
sires or with hopes: it was rather the voice of
mere fright and distress. My thoughts were con-
fused; the convictions great upon my mind; and
the horror of dying in such a miserable condition,
raised vapours into my head with the mere ap-
prehensions: and in these hurries of my soul I
knew not what my tongue might express; but
it was rather exclamation; .such as, Lord, what
a miserable creature am I! If I should be
sick, I shall certainly die for want of help—and
what will become of me! Then the tears burst
out of my eyes, and I could say no more for ;i
good while.
In this interval the good advice of my father
came to my mind, which I had so wickedly re-
jected, viz. That if I did take this foolish step,
(God 'would not bless me; and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. Now, said I, aloud, my dear
father's words are come to pass:—God's justice
Jias overtaken me, and I have none to help or
hear me! I rejected the voice of Pvovklence,
which had mercifully put me in a posture, or
station of life, wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learu to know the blessing of it from my parents.
I left my parents to mourn over my folly, and
now I am left to mourn under the consequences
of it. I refused their help and assistance, who
would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me; and now
I have difficulties to struggle with too great for
even nature itself to support, and no assistance,
no help, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried
out, Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress! . *
This was the first prayer, if I may call it sOj
that I had made for many years. But I return
to my journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed
with sleep, I rose to get something to refresh
and support myself; and the first thing I did,
I filled a large -square case bottle with water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to ta^e off the chill of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and
mixed them together: then I got me a piece of
the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat only very little; I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-
hearted with the thoughts of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the
next day.
At night I made my supper of three of the
turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
eat, as we call it, in the shell; and this was the
first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing
ib, thut I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk, but found-
myself so weak that I could hardly carry the
gun; (for I never went out without that) so I ,
went but a little way, and sat down' upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth. As
i sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
lo me :—
ft'hat is this earth and sea of which I havfi
seen so much'? Whence is it produced ] And
what am I and all the other creatures, wild and
fame; lumiau and brutal—whence are we t Sure-
ly we are all' made by some secret power, who
jbrmed the earth awd sea, the air and sky; and
tdio is-that 1
Then it followed most naturally—It is ,G«d
that has made it all! Well, but (then k came
on strangely) if God have made all these things,
he guides and governs them ail, and all things
that concern them; for the power that could:
make all things, must certainly have power to
guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit
of his works, either without his knowledge or
appointment: and if nothing happens without Ins
• knowledge, he knows that I am here, and am in
this dreadrul condition; and if nothing happens
without his appointment, he has appointed all
this to befal me.
Nothing occnrred to my thoughts to contradict
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must
needs be that God has appointed all this to be-
fal me; that I was brought to this miserable cir-
cumstance by his direction, he having the sole
power not of me only but of every thing that
happened in the world. Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me 1 What have
I done to be thus used? My conscience pre-
sently checked me in that enquiry, as if I had
blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me like
a voice, 'Wretch! Dost thou ask what thou
feast done? Look back upon a dreadfully mis*
spent life, arid ask thyself what thou hast not
tlone! Ask, why it is that thou wast not long
ago destroyed? Why wast thou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight, when
the ship was taken by the Sallee man of war;
devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of
Africa; OP drowned fare, when all the crew
perished but thyself] Dost thou ask, what have
I done!'
I was (truck dumb with these reflections, as
one astonished; and had not a word to say, no
not to answer to myself; but rose up pensive
and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went
up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed;
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my
chair and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now as the apprehension of the return of
my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought*, that the Brasilians take no phy-
sic but ibeir tobacco for almost all distempers;
and I had a piece of a toll of tobacco in one of
die chests which was quite cured, and some also
tkat was green and not quite cured.
I
•I went, directed by heaven no doubt; for in
this chest I found a cure for both soul and
body; I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz. tine tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, 1 Took out one
of the bibles which I mentioned before, ami
which to this time I had not found leisure or
£o much as inclination to look into; I say I
took it out, and brought both that and the to-
bacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tob»»co, I knew not
exactly, but I tried several experiments with it:
I first took a piece of a leaf and chewed it in
my mouth, which at first almost stupiticd me,
the tobacco being green and strong; then I
took some and steeped it an hour or two in
some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it
when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon
a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the
smoak as long as I could bear it, as well for the
heat as almost for suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the
bible and began to read, but my head was xtoo,
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear read-
ing, at least that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words thai occurred to
me were these—" Call on me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver ye, and thou shalt
glorify me." . ;,'
The words were very apt to my case, and
made some impression upon my thoughts at the
time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterwards; for, as to being delivered,
the word had no meaning, as I may say, to me;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that I began to say as
the children of Israel did, when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in
the wilderness?" So I began to say, "Can God
himself deliver me from this place?" And as it
was not for many years that any hope appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. It
grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep;
so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I
should want any thing in the night and went to
bed; but before I lay down, I did what I had
never done in my life, I kneeled down and pray-
ed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I
called upou him he would deliver me. After
my broktu and imperfect prayer was over, I
drank the mm in which I had steeped the to-
12
bacco, which was so strong and rank with it,
that I could scarcely get it down; immediately
upon this I went to bed, and I presently found,
it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till by
the sun it appeared to be three o'clock in the
afternoon of the next day; nay, to this hour I
am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next
day and night, and till three that day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day
out of my reckoning in the days of the week,
as it appeared some years after I had done: for
if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the
line I should have lost more than one day. But,
in my account, it was lost, and I never knew
which way.
When I awaked I found myself exceedingly
refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up, I was stronger than I was the
day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hungry; and in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better.
This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I
went abroad with my gun, but did not care to
travel too far. I .killed a sea-fowl or two, some-
thing like a brand-goose, and brought them home,
but was not in a humour to eat them; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very
good. This evening I renewed the medicine
which I had supposed did me good the day be-
fore, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum, only I did
not take so much as before, nor did I chew any
of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke;
however, I was not so well the next day', which
was the first of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for,.I had a little of the cold fit, but jt
was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dozed myself with it as at iirst; and
doubled the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all,
though I did not recover my full strength for
some weeks after. While I was thus gathering
strength, my thoughts run exceedingly upon this
scripture, "I will deliver thee;" and the irupos-
sibility of my deliverance lay much upon my •
mind in bar of uiy ever expecting jt. But as I
was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
occurred to my mind, that I pored so much upon
Epy deliverance from the main affliction, that I
disregarded the deliverance I had received; and
I 3
I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques-
tions as these, viz. "Have I not been delivered,
and wonderfully too, from sickness; from the
most distressed condition that could be, and that
was so frightful to me? And what notice had I
taken of it? Had I done my part, God had de-
livered me; but I had not glorified him, that is
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for
that as deliverance, and how could I expect
greater deliverance!" This touched my heart
very much,, and immediately I kneeled down,
and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from
sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the bible, and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seri-
ously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read
awhile every morning and night, not tying myself
to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts would engage me. It was not long after
I set seriously to'this work,, but I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wick-
edness of my past life; the impression of my
dream revived, and the words, "All these things
have not brought thee to repentance," ran seri-
6ns!y in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened
providentially lhat very day on reading' the
scripture, I came to these words—" He is exalted
a prince and a saviour, to give repentance, and
to give remission!" I threw down the book, and
with my heart, as well as my hands lifted up to
heaven, in a kind of ecstacy of joy, I cried out
:i!ond, "Jesus, thou Son of David—Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour, give me rqient-
ance ["
This was the first ^timc that I could say in the
true sense of the words, that I prayed in all my
life; for now I prayed with a sense of my condi-
tion, and with a true scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the word of
God, and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hopes that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words before
mentioned, " Call on me, and I will deliver you,"
in a different sense from what I had ever done be-
fore; as then I had no notion of any thing being
called a deliverance, but my being delivered
from the captivity I was in, for though I was in-
deed at large in the place, yet the island was
pertainly a prison to me, and that in the worst
sense in the world; but now I learned to take it
in another sense. Now I looked back upon ray
past life with horror, and my sins appeared so
dreadful, that my soul sought nothmg of God,
but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary lift-, it
was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be
delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no
consideration in comparison to this: but again I
proceed with my journal. -•_•
My condition began now to be, though not
less mise/able as to my way of living, yet much
easier to my mind; and my thoughts being di-
rected, by a constant reading the scripture, and
praying to God, to things of a higher nature; I
had a great deal of comfort within, which till now
I knew nothing of; my health and strength also
returned, I bestirred myself to furnish me with
every thing that I wanted, and make my way of
Jiving as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly
HCW, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
before, neither can I recommend it to any one to
practice by this experiment; and though it did
carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weaken me; for I had frequent convulsions in
my nerves and limbs for sometime.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my health that could be, es-
pecially in those rains which come attended by
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain
•which came in a dry season was always most ac-
companied with such storms, so I found that rain
was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had now been above ten months in the island;
and as I never had seen any of the human kind,
I therefore accounted myself as sole monarch;
and as I grew better, having secured my habita-
tion to my mind, I resolved to make a tour round
mv kingdom, in order to make new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began myjourney. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts
on shore; and travelling farther, found the tide
went no higher than two miles up, where there
was a little brook of running water, on the
banks of which were many pleasant savannas,
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass.
On the rising parts, where I supposed the
water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of
tobacco growing to a very strong stalk; several
other plants I likewise found, the virtues of which
I did not understand.
So that while I pursued this journey of disco-
very, as I may call it, I found many occasions to
regret the want of that useful knowledge I had in
my youth neglected to obtain.
I sought in vain for the Cassava-root, of which
I knew the Indians in that island made their
bread; but all in vain. There were several plants
of aloes, though at that time I knew not what
they were; likewise I saw several sugar-canes,
but imperfect for want of cultivation. With
these few discoveries, I came back that night,
and slept contentedly in my little castle. The
next day, being the ICth, goipg the same way,
but farther than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees.
Here I perceived different fruits in great abun-
dance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and
clusters of grapes, ripe and. very rich, spread
over the trees.
You may imagine I was glad of this discovery,
yet eat very sparingly, lest I should throw myself
into a flux or fever. The grapes I found of ex-
cellent use; for when I hud dried them in th«
»unt whic.h preserved them as dried raisins are
kt'pt, they proved very wholesome and nourish-
in;:, and served me in those seasons when no
grapes were to be had.'
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a
tree and slept very comfortably, though it was
the first time I had lain out of my habitation: and
when the luonikig came, I proceeded, with great
fMeasure, OB my way, travelling about four miles,
as t imagined by the length of the valley, direct-
ing my course northward, there being a ridge of
lulls on U.ie south and north side of mc. At the
tnd of this valley I came to an opening, where
.the country seemed to descend to the west;
there I found a little spring of fresh water, pro-
feeding out cf the side of a hill, with its crystal
streams running directly east.
And indeed here my senses were charmed with
the most beautiful landscape nature could afford;
for the country appeared so flourishing,. green,
iiiul delightful, that to me it seemed like a planted
garden. I then descended on the side of that
delicious vale, when I found abundance of cocoa,
orange, lemon, and citron-trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes, they
•were delightful and wholesome; the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix with water, which
made it very cool and refreshing.
And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
tip a store of grapes, limes, and lemons, again
the approaching wet season. So laying them up
in separate parcels, and then taking a few of
each with me, I returned to my little castle, after
faavirig spent three days in this journey. Before
I got home the grapes were so bruised that they
were utterly spoiled. The limes indeed were
good; but of these I could bring only a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags I returned
thither again; but, to my great surprise, found
all the grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and
abundance eaten, which made me conclude there
were wild beasts thereabout. To prevent this
happening again, I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them upon the upper
branches of the trees, both to keep them unhurt,
-IP! that they might cure and dry in the sun; and
having well loaded myself with limes and lemons,
I returned once more to my old place of resi-
'dence.
And now, contemplating on the fruitfulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the beauty of the ad-
jacent woods, I concluded I was settled in the
worst part of the country, and therefore was
thinking to remove my habitation. But when I
considered again, that though it was pleasant, it
w:as off fron> the sea-side, where there was a pos-
sibility, some time or oiher, a ship might either
be driven or sail by; and that to enclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly put ai) end
to my hopes of deliverance, I resolved to let my
castle remain where Providence bad first assigned
it. Yet so delighted was I with this place, that
I made a little hind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and tilled with bulrushes; and
having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I began
, to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry I
took them from the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun; the most of which
K
I carried to my cave; and happy for me I did so,
by which I saved the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other, yet,
having no shelter of a hill to keep me from storms,
and a cave behind to retreat to, I was obliged to
return to toy old castle.
The rain continued more or less every day till
the middle of October; and sometimes so vio-
lently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days. This season I found my family to
encrease; for one of my cats that ran away from
me, and which I thought had been dead, returned
about August with three kittens at her heels like
herself. The wild cats of the island seemed to
be of a different kind from our European cats;
but from these cats proceeded such numbers, that
I was forced to destroy them as I would do wild
beasts or vermin.
To the 26th of this month I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when, beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice, the
first of which I shot a goat, and afterwards found
a very large tortoise. The manner of regulating
my food was thus: A bunch of raisins served
me for breakfast, a piece of goat's flesh or turtle
broiled for my dinner, and two or three turtle
eggs for my supper.
While the rain lasted I daily worked ttfo or
three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the
outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence, or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But after I had done
this, I was troubled to see myself thus exposed;
though I could not perceive any thing to fear, a
goat being the biggest creature I had seen upon
this island.
Sept. 30. Casting up the notches op my post,
which amounted to three hundred and sixty-five,
I concluded this to be the anniversary of my
landing; and therefore humbly prostrating my-
self on the ground, confessing my sins, acknow-
ledging God's righteous judgments upon me, and
praying to Jesus Christ to have mercy upon me,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then, eating a bjscuit and a bunch
of grapes, laid me on the bed, and with great
comfort took my night's repose.
Till this time I never had distinguished the
sabbath day; but now I made a longer notch
than ordinary for the days of rest, and divided
the weeks as well as I could, though I found I
had lost a day or two in my account. My ink
failing soon after, I omitted in my daily memo-
randum things of an indifferent nature, and con-
tented myself to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life.
The rainy and dry seasons appeared nov/ regu-
lar to me, and experience taught me how to
provide for them: yet, in one thing I am going
to relate, my experience very much failed me.
You may call to mind what I have mentioned of
some barley and rice which I had saved; about
thirty stalks of the former, and twenty of the
latter; and at that time the sun being in its
southern position, going from me together with
the ra,ins, made me conclude it a very proper
season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece
of ground with my wooden spade, and dividing
it in two parts, sowed about two thirds of my
seed, preserving by me about a handful of each.
And happy it was I did so; for, no rain falling,
it was parched up, and never appeared above the
oarth till the wet season came again, and then
part of it grew as if it had been newly sown.
I jvas resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my
bower, I there sowed the rest of my seed in Fe-
bruary, a little before the vernal equinox, which,
having the rainy months of March and April to
water it, yielded a noble crop, and sprung up
very-pleasantly.
I had still saved part of (he seed, not daring
to venture all; and by the time I found out the
proper season to sow in, and that I might expect
every year two seed timrs aml two harvests, my
stock amounted to above half a peck o^ each soft
of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees shot out like wil-
lows. I was ignorailt of the tree I had cut them
from; but they grew so regularly beautiful, that
they made a most lively appearance; and so
flourished in three years time, that I resolved to
cut more of them; and these soon growing, made
a glorious fence, as afterwards I sbajl observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into summer
and wiater, as in Europe, but into wet and dry
seasons, as in tin's manner:—
r February, -j Rainy, sun conv
Half-] March, \ ing near the
(. April, 3 equinox.
K 3
- April, ^
V May, /Dr.V, sun
llalf< June, V north of the
I July, \ line.
August,
r August, "\
, 1 c ", i I Wet, the sup being
IlulfX September, J. ,
J _. . , \ comeback.
t October, J
October, ,
V November, / Dry, sun rising
Half-/ December, V south of the
/ January, \ line.
February,
The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter as the winds happened to blow: but .
having found the ill consequences of being abroad
in the rain, I took care before hand to furnish
myself with provisions: and, during the wet
months, sat within doors as much as possible.
At this time I contrived to make many things
that ,I wanted, though it cast me much labour
mid pains before I accomplished them. The
first I tried was to make a basket; but all the
twigs I could get proved so brittle, that I could
not then perform it. It n,ow proved of great ad-
vantage to me that, when a boy, I took great
delight in standing at a basket maker's, in the
same town where my father lived, to view them
at wotk: and, like other boys, curious to see
the manner of their working these things, and
very officious to assist, I perfectly learned the
method of it, and wanted nothing but' the tools:
and it coming into my head, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes might be as tough
as sallow, willojv, or osiers, growing in England,
1 resolved to make an experiment, and went the
next day to my coyntry scat, and found some fit
for my turn; and after cutting down a quantity
with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and
when fit to work with carried them to my cave,
wh*re I employed myself in making several sorts
pf baskets, insomuch ihat I succeeded in what-
ever I pleased. It is true, that they were not
cleverly made: yet they served my turn upon all
occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had,
no cask to hold my liquor, neither had I a pot
to boil any thing in. I wanted, likewise, at the
beginning of this dry season, a tobacco-pipe; but
for this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second
row of stakes; but remembering that when 1
travelled up to the brook I had a wish to see th«
whole island, I now resumed my intention; and
taking my dog, gun, hatchet, some biscuit, 3
great bunch of raisins, with a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, 1 began my journey.
Having past the vale where my bower stood,
I came within view of the sea lying to the west;
when it being a clear day, I fairly descried land,
extending from the W. tq the S.W. about 10 or 15
leagues, as I concluded; but could not say whe-
ther it was an island or a continent: 1 thought it
might be part of America, or the Spanish coast:
and if it were not, then it must be the savage
coast, between the Spanish country and Brasil,
which abounds with cannibals, or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the.
fragrant fields, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several fine woods.
There were parrots iri plenty, which made me
long for one to be my companion; but it was with
great difficulty 1. could knock down one with my
slick, and I kept him at home some years before
I could get him to call me by my name.
In this.journey I did not travel above two miles,
a day, because I took several turns and windings
to see what discoveries I could make, rrhiriiing
weary enough to the place where I designed to
ie»t all night, which was cither in a tree, or to a
place which 1 surrounded with stakes, that no
wild creature might suddenly surprize me.
When I came to the sea-stare I was amazed 'to
see the splendor of it: its strand was covered
with shells of -the most beautiful kinds, and con-
stantly abounding with innumerable turtles, and
fowls of many species, which I was ignorant of,
except those called penguins.
I continued my journey, travelling^a^outtwelve
miles farther towards the east, where I fixed a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey would bring me to the other
side of the island, east from my castle, and so
• round till I'came to my post again. As I had a
constant view of the country, I thought I could
not miss my way j but scarce had I travelled three
miles, when I descended into a very large valley,
so surrounded .with hills covered with wood, that
having no certain guide but the sun, nor even that
now, it being entirely hid by the hills, I was
obliged to return to my post by the sea-side; and
so backwards in the same way I came. In this
journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have
killed it, had I not prevented him,
As I had often beefn thinking of getting a kid
or two, and so raising a breed of tame goats to
supply rue after my ammunition \va* spent, I took
this opportunity of beginning: and having made
a collar for this little creature with a string of
rope yarn, I brought it to my bower, and there
enclosed and left it; and, having spent a month
in this journey, at length I returned to my old
habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction when I
arrived at my little castle, and reposed myself in
my hammock. After my journey I rested myself
a week, which time I employed in making a cage
for my pretty Poll. I now began to think of the
poor kid I had left at the bower; and I immedi-
ately went to fetch it home. When I came there
I found the young creature almost starved. I
gave it some food, and tied it as before; but
there was no occasion, for it followed me like a
• dog; and, as I constantly fed it, it became so
loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one
of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equino*
being now come, I kept the 30th of September
in the most solemn manner, as usual, it being the
third year of my abode in the island. I spent
the whole day in acknowledging God's mercies;
in giving him thanks for making this solitary life
as agreeable, and less sinful than (hat of human
society: and for the communications of his grace
to my soul, in supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon his Providence,
and hope for his eternal presence in the world to
come.
I would often wring my hands, and weep like
a child, when I considered the desolate situation
I was in—shut out from all mankind. Sometimes
in the middle of my work this fit would take me,
and then I would sit down and sigh, looking at
the ground for an hour or two together, till such
time as my grief got vent in a flood of tears.
One morning as I was sadly employed in this
manner, I opened my bible, when immediately I
fixed my eyes upon these words, / will never
leave tltee, nor forsake thec. Surely, thought I,
these words are directed to me, or else, why
«hould they appear just at a moment when I was
bemoaning my forlorn condition'? And if God
does not forsake me, what matters it, since he
can make me more happy in this state of liie
than if I enjoyed' the greatest splendor in the
\forld?
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: First, my duty tir
Heaven, and diligently reading the holy scrip-
tm,e.'f, which I did twice or thrice every day.
Secondly, seeking provision with my gun, which
coumionly took me up\ when it did not rain,
three hours every morning. Thirdly, the order-
ing, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had
killed, or catched for my supply, which took me
up a gi,eat part of the day: for in the middle of
the day, the sun being in its height, it was so
hot, that I could not stir out; so that I had only
four hours in the evening to work in; and then
the want of tools, of assistance, and skil),
-wasted a great deal of time to little purpose.
I was not lesathan two-and-forty days making
a board fit for a long Shelf, which two sawyers,
with their tools and saw-pit, would have cut out
of the same tr^r in half a day. It was of a larste
tree, as my board was to be broad. 1 was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lopping
off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of
timber. This I hacked and. hewed oS' each sid,>,
till it became light to move; then I turned it,
inside one side of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end; then turned it downward,
cutting the other side, till I brought the piank to
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any body may judge of my great labour
and fatigue in such a piece of work; but this I
went through with patience, as also many oiher
things that my circumstances made necessary for
me to do.
The harvest months, November and December,
were now at hand, in which I had the pleasing
prospect of a very good crop. But here I met
with a new misfortune; for the goats and hares,
having tasted of the sweetness of the blade,
kept it so short, that it had not strength to shoot
up into a stalk. To prevent this I enclosed it
with a hedge, and by day shot some of its de-
vourers; and my dog, which I had tied to the
field-gate, barking all night, so frightened these
creatures, that I got entirely rid of them.
But no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared, to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of birds, which only wailed till my back
was .turned to ruin mc. So .much did this pro-
voke me, that I let fly and killed three of lhe
L
malefactors; and afterwards served them as they
,do notorious thieve'! in England, hung them up
in, chains as a terror to others. And indeed ?o
good an effect had this, that they not only forsook
the corn, but all that part of the island, so long
as these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crop, it was so slender. The ears I
carried home in a basket, rubbing it out with
my hands, instead of threshing it; and when my
harvest was over found my half peck of seed
produced near two bushels of rice, and two
bushels and a half of barley.
And now, having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two,
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, which I dug up with my wooden
spade, in which I sowed my seed, and fenced
it with a good hedge.
This took me three, months, by which time, the
wet season coming on, and the rain keeping me
withindoors, I found several occasions to employ
myself; and while at work used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name, Poll, the first welcome
word I heard spoke in the island. I had been
a long time contriving how to make earthen ves-
sels, which I wanted extremely; and when I
coniidered the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if I could find any such clay, I
might botch up a pot strong enough, when dried
in the sun, to bear handling, and to hold anything
that was dry; as corn, meal, and other things.
In short, the clay I found; but it would oc-
casion the most serious person to smile, to see
what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
mishapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed. So
I think it was two months time before I could
perfect any thing, and even then but two clumsy
things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made on purpose for them; and, be-
tween the pot and basket, stuffed it full of rice
and barley-straw: and these, I presumed, would
hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal when
the corn was bruised. As for the smaller things,
I made them with better success; such as Ifftle
T, 2
• round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
the sun bail ing them very hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It once happened that
as I was puttiag out my fire, I founc} therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt hard
as a rock, and red as a tile. This made me
think of burning some pots; and having no no-
lion of a kjln, or of glazing them with lead, I
fixed thrpc l&rge pipkins, and two or three ppts
in a pile one upon another. The fire I piled
round the outside, and dry wood on the top, till
I saw the pots in the mside red-hot, and found
that they did not crack at all; and when I per-
ceived them perfectly red, I let one of them
stand in the fire fite or six hours, till the clay
melted by the extremity of the heat, and would
have run to glass, had I'suffered it; upon which
I slackened my fire by degrees till the redness
abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my pur-
pose as I could defire.
No joy could be greater than min« at this dis-
covery; for after this, I may say, I wanted for
no sort of earthenware, I filled one of my pip-
kins with water to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of kid I
made me some good broth, as well as my cir-
cumstances would afford me at that time.
The next concern I had was to get me a stone
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
grind it. Here indeed I was at a great loss;
many days I spent to find a great stone big enough
to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar, and strong
enough to bear the weight of a pestle, that would
break the corn without filling it with sand: b it
all the stones of the island being of a mouldering
nature, rendered my search fruitless; and then
1 resolved to look out for a great block of hard
wood; which having soon found, I formed-it
with my axe and hammer, and then with infinite
labour made a hollow in it, just as the Indians
of Brasijmake their canoes. When I had finished
this, I made a great pestle of iron-wood, and
then laid them up till my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to
sif( my meal, and part it from the bran and husk.
Having no fine thin canvas to sift the meal
through, I could not tell what to do. The
L 3
linen I had was reduced to rags; I had goats'
hair euough, but neither tools to work it, nor
did I know how to spin it: at length I remem-
bered Ilip.d some neckcloths of calico or muslin
of (he sailors, whkh I had brought out of the
ship, and with these I made three small sieves,
proper enough for the work.
I came now to consider the baking part. The
want of an oven I supplied by making some
rail hen pans very broad, but not deep. When
I hud a mint} to bake I made a great fire upon,
my hearth, the tiles of which I made myself;
and when the wood was burnt into live coals,
I spread them over it, till it became very hot;
then sweeping them away, I set down my loaves,
and turning down the earthen pots upon them,
drew the ashes and coals all round the outside of
the pots to continue the heat; and in this manner
I baked n?y barley loaves, as well as if I had
been a complete pastry-cook; and also made of
the rice several cakes and puddings.
It was no wonder that these employments took
me up the best part of a year, since what 'inter-
mediate time- I had was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the proper
season I reaped my corn, carried it home, and,
laid it up in the ear in my large baskets, till I
had time to rUb, instead of threshing it. And
now indeed my corn encreased so much, that it
produced me ab ml twenty bushels of barley,
and as much of rice; that I not only began to
use it freely, but was thinking how to enlarjre my
barns, and resolved to sow as much at a tinic as
would be sufficient for me for a whole vcar.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the island, ran
in my mind. I still meditated a deliverance from
this place, though the fear of greater misfor-
tunes might have deterred me from it; for, al-
lowing that I had attained that place, I run the
hazard of being killed and eaten by the devour-
ing cannibals; and if they were not so, yet I
might be slain, as other Europeans had been who
fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all this,
my thoughts ran continually upon that shore.
I now wished for my boy Xiiry, and the long-
boat, with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went to
the ship's boat, that had been cast a great way on
the shore in the late storm: she was removed but a.
little; hut her bottom being turned up by the im-
petuosity and fury of the waves and wind, I fell to
ivork with all the strength I had, and with levers
and rollers I had cut front the wood, to turn her,
and repair the damages she had sustained. This
work took me up three or four weeks, when find-
ing my little strength all in vain, I fell to under?
mining it by diggijug away the sand, and so make
'it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it in the fall. But after this was done, I
was still unable to stir it up, or to get under it,
much less to move it forwards to the water, and
fo I was forced to give it over.
This disappointment however did not frighten
me. I began to think whether it was not possible
for me to make a canoe or perigua,. such as the
Indians make of the tri^nk of a tree. But here
I lay under particular inconvenieneics; namely,
want of tools to make it, and want of hands t»
move it in the water when it was made. However,
to work I went upon it, stopping all the enquiries
I could make, with this very simple answer I made
to myself; Let me first make it, and then find
some way or other to get it along when it is done.
1 first cut down a cedar tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a t.pace, and then parted into
re a-/ieii
(7
,by Tatart&C°[.cmOtm.
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
hewing this tree at the bottom, fourteen more
in cutting off the branches and limbs, and a
whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a
boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such a
manner, that it was big enough to carry twenty-
six men, much bigger than any cancre I had ever
seen in my life, and consequently sufficient to
'transport me and all my effects to that wished-for
shore I so ardently desired to get at.
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty, namely, to get it into the water, it
King about one hundred yards from it. To re-
medy the first inconvenience, which was a rising
hill between this boat and the creek, with won-
derful pains and labour I dug into'the surface of
the earth, and made a declivity.
But when this was done, all the strength I
had was insufficient to move it, as it was when I
attempted to move the ship's boat. I then pro-
ceeded to measure the distance of ground, re-
solved to make a canal, in order to bring the
water to the canoe, since I could not bring the
danoc to the water.
But as this was impracticable by myself alone,
unless with eleven or twelve years' labour, it
brought me into some sort of consideration, &>
that I concluded this also to be impossible,
and the attempt altogether vain.
I now saw, and not before, what stupidity it
is to begin work before we reckon its costs, or
judge rightly our own abilities to go through with
its performance.
In the height of this work, my fourth year
expired from the day I was cast upon this island.
At this time I did not forget my anniversary, but
kept it with rather greater devotion than before;
for now my hopes being frustrated, I looked upon
this world as a thing I had nothing to do with;
and very well might I say, as father Abraham
said unto Dives, "Between me and thee there is
a gulph fixed."
I had nothing to covet. I had plenty of corn,
turtles, grapes, and timber in abundance. What
•was all the rest to me? The money I had by me
lay as despicable dross, which I would have freely
given for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or a hand-mill
to grind my corn: in a word, the nature and
experience of these things dictated to me this
just reflection, that the good things of this world"
are no farthej of good to us than they are for
our use; and that whatever we may heap up to
give others, we can but enjoy as much as we use,
and no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
titan usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I
did it with thankfulness, admiring the providen-
tial hand of God, who, in this wilderness, had
spread a table for me. And now I considered
what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; and
compared my present condition with what I at
ijrst expected it would be.
I next compared my station to that which I
deserved; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents; how destitute of the fear of God; and
how void of every thing that was good; and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had re-
ceived from Heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah's being fed with
ravens; and cast upon a place where there were
no venomous ufreatures to poison or devour me:
in short, making God's tender mercies matter of
great consolation, I relinquished all sadness, and
gave way to contentment.
'As long as my ink continued, which by the
'help of water I made t? last as long as I could, I
used to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened. And,
First, I observed, that the same day I forsook
my parents and friends* and ran away to Hull,
in order to go to sea, the same day in the next
year I was taken, and made a slave by the Sallee
rovers:
That the very day I escaped out of the wreck
of the ship in Yarmouth Reads, a year after, on
the same day, I made my escape from Sallee in
my patron's fishing-bopt:
And that on the 30th of September, being the
day of the year I was born on, on that day
twenty-six years after was I miraculously saved
and cast ashore on this island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink; was
the biscuit which I had brought out of the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a day
for above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of
bread for near a year before I could get any
com of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay,
and my linen had been gone long before. How-
ever, I had preserved about three dozen of the
sailors' chequered shirts, which proved a great
refreshment to me, when the violent beams of the
sun would not suffer me to bear any of the sea-
men's heavy watch-coats, which made me tura
taylor, and, after a miserable botching manner,
convert them to jackets. To preserve my head,
1 made me a cap of goat-skins, with the hair
outwards to keep out the rain, which indeed
served me so well that afterwards I made me
a waistcoat and opfu-kneed breaches of the
same: and then I contrived a sort of umbrella,
covering it with skius, which not only kept out
the heat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus
being easy and settled in my mind, my chiefest
happiness was to converse with God in most
heavenly and comfortable ejaculations. %
For five years after this I cannot say any extra-
ordinary thing occurred to me. My chief em-
ployment was to cure my raisins and plant my
barley and rice, of both which I had a year's
provision beforehand. •
But though I was disappointed in my first
canoe, I made it at intermediate times my busi-
ness to make a second, of much inferior size;
i and it was two years before I finished it. But
as I perceived it would no ways answer my design
of sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
at
confined to taking a tour round the island, to
see what further discoveries I could make. To
this intent, after having moved her to the water,
and tried how she would sail, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail of the ship's
sail that lay by me.
I then made lockers, or boxes, at the end of
it, to put in necessaries, provisions and ammu-
nition, which would preserve them dry either
from rain or the spray of the sea; and in the
inside of the boat I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry made a flap
to hang over it. My umbrella I fixed in a step
in the stern, like a mast, to keep the heat of the
sun from me.
And now resolving to see the circumference of
my little kingdom, I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my barley-bread
loaves, an earthen potful of parched rice, a little
tfbttle of rum, half a goat, powder and shot,
and two watch-coats. It was the sixth of No-
vember, in the sixth year of my reign, or c;tp~
tivity, that I set out on this voyage, which was
much longer than I expected, being obliged to
put farther out by reason of the rocks that lay
a great way in the sea. And indeed so much did
theie rocks surprise me, that I was for putting
back, fearing that if I ventured farther, it would
be out of my power to return. In this uncer-
tainty I came to an anchor just off shore, to
which I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and
then climbing up a hill which overlooked that
point, I saw the full extent of it, and so I re-
solved to run all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming very
close to the point; which I the more carefully
observed, thinking it dangerous, and that when
I came to it I might be driven into the sea by its
force, and not be able to return to the island;
and certainly it must have been so had I not made
this observation; for on the other side was the
like current, with this difference, that it set off
at a greater distance; and I perceived there was
a slgong eddy under the land, so that my chief
business was to work out of the first current, and
conveniently get into the eddy.
Two days I stayed here, (he wind blowing very
briskly E. S. E. which, being contrary to the
current, leaves a great branch of the sea upon
the point; so it was neither fit for me to keep too
near the shore, on account of the breach, nor
- M2
stand at too great a distance, for fear of the
streams.
That night, the wind abating, it grew so calm
that I ventured out, and here I may be a monu-
ment to all rash and ignorant pilots; for I was
no sooner come to the point, and not above the
boat's length from shore, but I was got into a
deep water, with a current like a mill, which
drove my boat along so violently, that it was
impossible for me to keep her near the edge of
it, but forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of ree; and all I could do with
my paddles was useless, there being no wind to
help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost; since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain it must join again,
and then I had no hopes but of perishing for
want in ihe sea, after what provisions I had were
spent, or before, if a storm should happen to
arise.
Who can conceive the anguish of my mind at
this calamity? With longing eyes'did I look
upon my little kingdom, and thought that island
the pleasantest place in the universe. Happy,
thxic.e happy desert, said I, shall I never see
thee more! Wretched creature!—'Whither am
.1 going? Why did I Murmur at my lonesome
condition, when now I would give the whole
world to be thither again?
While I was thus complaining, I found myself
to be driven about two leagues into the sea.
However, I laboured till my strength was tar
spent, to keep my boat as far north as possibly
I could, to that side of the current where the
eddy lay. About noon I perceived a little breeze
of wind spring up from the S. S.E. which over-
joyed my heart; and I was still more elated,
when, in about half an hour, it blew a gentle fine
gale.
Had it been thick weather I had been lost
another way; for having no compass on board, I
should never have found the way to steer towards
the island, if once it had disappeared; but it
proving the contrary, I set up my mast again,
spread rny sail, and stood away northward as
much as I could, to get rid of the current. No
sooner did the boat begin to steer away, but I
perceived, by the clearness of the water, a
change of the current was near; for where it
was strong the water was foul, and where it was
/clear the current abated. To the east I soon
M 3
saw, about half a mile distant, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks, which caused it again to
separate; and as the main force drove away
more southwardly, leaving the rocks to the
north-east, so the other came back by the re-
pulse of the rocks, making a sharp eddy, which
returned back again to the north-west with a
very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be
saved from thieves just going to take away their
lives, or such as have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of
joy, how heartily I ran my boat into the- stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be-
fore it with a smart tide under foot.
By the assistance of this eddy I was carried
above a league home again, when, being in the,
wake of the island, betwixt two currents, I found
the water to be at a sort of a stand. About four
o'clock in the afternoon I reached within a league
of tiie island, and perceived the points of the
rock, which caused this disaster, stretching out,
as I observed before, to the southward, which,
throwing off-the current more southwardly, had
occasioned Smother eddy to the nonk. But,
having a fair brisk gale, I stretched across this
eddy, and in an hour cairte within a mile of the
shore, where I soon landed to my unspeakable
comfort; and after an humble prostration, thank-
ing God for my deliverance, with a resolution to
lay all thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my
boat safe to a little cove, and laid me down to
take a welcome repose.
When I awoke I was considering how I might
get my boat home ; and coasting along thft shore,
I came to a good bay, which ran up to a rivulet,
or brook, where, finding a safe harbour, I stowed
her as safe as if she had been in a dry dock made
on purpose for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot; so, taking
nothing with me except my gun and umbrella, I
began my journey, and in the evening came to
my bower, where I again laid me down to rest.
I had not slept long before I was awakened in
great surprise by a strange voice that called me
several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusae!
Poor Robin! Where are you, Robin Crusoe—
where are you'? Where have you been?" So
fast was I asleep at first, lhat I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me.
But as the voice repeated " Robinson Crusoe"
several times, I started up in the utmost confu-
sion; and no sooner were my eyes fully open,
but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top
of the hedge, and soon knew that it wats he that
called me; for just in such bewailing language
I used to talk to and teach him, which he so ex-
'actly learned, that he would sit upon my finger
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
"Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? Where
have you been? How came you hert 1" And
such like prattle I had constantly taught him-
But even though I knew it to be the parrot, it
was a great while before I could adjust myself;
being amazed how the creature got thither, and
that he should fix about the place and no where
else. Eut now, being assured it could be no
other than my honest Poll, my wonder ceased;
and reaching out my hand, and calling familiarly
Poll, the poor creature' came to me, and perched
upon ray thumh, as he was wont to do, still re-
peating " Poor Robinson Crusoe," and enquir-
ing how I came here, and where I had been?
As if the bird were overjoyed to see me.
I was now pretty well cured of •'rambling to
sea; yet I wished to have my boat, which had
cost me so much trouble and pains, on my side
of the island once more, but this was indeed im-
practicable.
I therefore began to lead a very retired life,
living near a twelvemonth in a very contented
manner, wanting for nothing, except conversa-
tion. As to mechanic-labours, which my ne-
cessities obliged me to apply to, I fancied I
^ could upon occasions make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the tools I had to work withal but
good. Besides, as I improved in my earthen-
ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel,
which I found much easier and better; my work,
which before was rnde and ugly, became neat
and shapely.
But I think I was never so elevated with my
own performance, or project, as when I was able
to make a tobacco-pipe; which, though it proved
•in awkward, clumsy thing, yet was very sound,
and carried the smoke perfectly well, to my great
satisfaction. •
I also improved my wicker-ware, making me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were handy and convenient
to bring things home in, and also for holding my
stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
• My powder beginning to fail, made me exa-
mine after,.what manner I should kill the goats
and birds to live on, after it was all gone. I
contrived many ways to ensnare the goats, and
see if I could catch them alive, particularly a
she-goat, with young; and at last I had my de-
sire, for, making pit-falls and traps, baited with
barley and rice, I found one morning in one of
them an old he-goat, and in the other three kids,
one male, the other two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. J$ut I forgot the old pro-
verb, that " hunger will tame a lion." For had
I kept him three or four days without victuals,
and then given him some water, with a little corn,
Jie would have been as tame as a young kid.
The other creatures I bound with strings to-
gether, but I had great difficulty before I could
bring them to my habitation. It was some time
before they would feed, but by throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them that they
began to be tame; from hence I concluded,
that if I designed to furnish myself with goat's
fl?sh, when my ammunition was spent, tire tamely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, wa* the only method I could
take.
I concluded also lhat I must separate the wild
from the tame, or else they would always run
wild a.s they grew up; and the best way for this
was to have some inclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with a hedge or paling, to keep
them so effectually, that those within might not
break out, or those without break in.
Such an undertaking was very great for one
pair of hands; but as there was an absolute ne-
cessity for doing it, my first cure was to find a
convenient piece of ground, where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Here again I gave another instance of my igno-
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece
of meadow-land so large, that had I enclosed ii,
the edge or paling must have been at least two
miles about, Indeed had it. been ten miles, I
had time enough to do it in: but then I did not
consider my goats would be as wild in so much
compass, as if they had had the whole island;
and consequently as difficult for me to catch
them.
This thought came into my head, after I had
carried it on, I believe, fifty yards; I therefore
altered my scheme, and resolved to inclose a
piece of ground about oue hundred and fifty
yards in leugth, and one hundred in breadth,
sufficient for as many as would maintain me till
such time as my flock encreased, and then I
coufd add more ground.
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and
it took me about three months hedging the fiisi
piece, in which time I tethered the three kids iu
the best part of it, feeding them as near me as
possible, to make them familiar: and indeed 1
very often would carry some ears of barley, or
a handful of rice, and feed them out »f ray
hand; by which means they grew so tame, that
when my inclosure was finished, and I had let
them loose, they would run after me for a hand
ful of corn.
This indeed answered my end; and in a year
and a half's time, I had a flock of about twelve
goats, kids and all; and in two years after they
amounted to forty-three, besides what I htrtl
taken and killed for my sustenance. After
which I inclosed five several pieces of ground to
,feed them in, with pens to drive- them into, that
I might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I had not only plenty of goat's
flesh, but milk too, which, in my beginning, 1
did not so much as think of: and indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet, after
some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
aud never afterward wanted either.
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power
comfort his creatures, even in the midst of their
greatest calamities! How can he sweeten the
bitterest afflictions, and give us reason to mag-
nify him in dungeons and prisons! What a
bounteous table did .he spread in the wilderness
tor me, where I expected nothing at first but to
perish with hunger 1
JMy dog, my parrot, and my cats, served me
as companions: the parrot became particularly
amusing, as he leurued to speak with wonderful
facility, and his sayings enlivened the dreary so-
litude ground me. . .
Jt would have.diverted any one to see me aud
.N
my little family sit down to dinner. There Was
myself, the' prince and lord of the island, at-
tended by my train of servants: Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was the only one per-
mitted to talk to me. My dog always stationed
himself at my right hand; and my two cats
v, aited one on each side of the table, expecting
now and then a bit from my hand as a mark of
fny special favor.
Meanwhile my stock of clothes was all worn
out. 1 had patched and botched them together
as long as I possibly could, but they were no
longer in a condition to bear mending. I had
carefuMy saved and dried all the skins of the
animals I had killed for my subsistence, and of
these, although a very indifferent laylor, I made
me a complete suit of clothes, and a cap with
the hair turned outwards.
Had any one in England met such a mail a<
myself, so equipped as I now was, he must have
been a very bold man indeefl if he had not been
thoroughly frightened. And as I viewed myself,
I often laughed to think what wonder, terror, and
astonishment, I should create walking through the
streets tof London in such a figure.
First, I had a great high shapeleso cap,, made
of goats' skin, with a flap hanging down behind,
to keep the rain or sun from my neck. I had a
short jacket of goats' skin, and a pair of loose
breeches, made of the skin of an old goat, the
hair of which was so long that it bung to the
middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had
none, but I made me a pair of somethings to
lace on, like spatterdashes, but of a most bar-
barous shape, as indeed were all my clothes.
Round my waist was a belt of dried goats'
skin, in which was placed a saw and hatchet.
Another belt went over my shoulder, from which
hung two ugly-shaped goat-skin pouches; one
for my powder, and the other for my shot. At
my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder
my gun, and over my head a great clumsy goat-
skin umbrella, I had made with great difficulty,
to shjeld me from the intense heat of the sun.
My upper-lip was adorned with a large pair of
Mahometan whiskers. I will not say these mus-
taches, or whiskers, were large enough to hang
my hat upon; but they were of a length and
shape monstrous enough, and such as in Eng-
land would have passed for frightful. But all
this was of no consequence; for, alas, there were
none to observe, praise, or fmd fault with me |
N2
This fatal idea would sometimes cross me sud-
denly in the midst of my occupations, with an
anguish almost beyond endurance, and my heart
then seemed ready to break, as I reflected that
I was far from the dwellings of my fellow-men,
and imprisoned by the eternal bars and bolts of
the surrounding ocean! On these occasions
tears generally relieved me; and my grief having
exhausted itself, I became again reconciled to my
hapless destiny.
Now again I proceeded on my travels about
the island. I first journeyed along the sea-
shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks. But
having now no boat to fake care of, I went over
land a nearer way to the same lieight that I was
before upon; when looking forward to the point
of the rock which lay out, and which I was
forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to
see the sea so smooth and quief, there being no
ri,)ling motion or current any more than in other
places. This made ine ponder some time to
guess the reason of it, when at last I was con-
vinced that the ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the current of the water from some
great river on shore, must be the occasion of
th.ese rapid streams; and that consequently as
the winds blew more westwardly or more south-
wardly, so the current came the marer or went
the farther from shore. To satisfy my curiosity
I waited there till evening, when the time of
ebbing being come, I plainly perceived from the
rock the current again as before, with this dif-
ference, that it ran farther oft' near half a league
from th> shore; whereas in my expedition it set
close upon it, furiously hurrying me and my
canoe along with it, which at another time it
would not have done. And now I was con-
vinced that, by observing the ebbing and flowing
of the tide, I might easily bring my boat round
the island again: but when I began to think of
putting it in practice, the remembrance of the
late danger struck me with such horror, that
I changed my resolution, and formed another,
which was more safe, though more laborious;
and this was, to make a second canoe, and so
have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
I had now two plantations in the island, the
first my little fortification, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements: for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind me,
N3
with several little caves, one within another, t0
hold my baskets, corn, and straw: the piles
ivith which I made my wall, were grown so lofty
that they obscured my habitation: and near
this commodious and pleasant settlement, lay my
well-cultivated and improved corn-fields, which
kindly yielded me their fruits in the proper
season. .
My second plantation was that near my coun-
try-seat, or little bower, where my grapes flou-
rished, and where, having planted many stakes,
I made inclosures for my goats, so strongly for-
tified by labour and time, that it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impossi-
ble for them to break through. As for my bower
itself, I kept it constantly in repair, and cut the
trees in such a manner as made them grow thick
and wild, and form a most delightful shade.
In the centre of this stood my tent, thus
erected: I had driven four piles in the ground,
spreading over it a piece of the ship's sail; be-
neath which I made a sort of couch with the
skins of the creatures I had slain, and other
things; and having laid thereon one of the sailor's
blankets, which I had saved from ihe wreck
of the ship, and covering myself with a great
watch-coat, I took up this place for my country
retreat.
Very frequently, from this settlement I visited
my boat, and kept her in very good order: and
sometimes I would venture iu her a cast or two
frora the shore, but no farther, lest either a
strong current, a sudden stormy wind, or some
unlucky accident should hurry me from the
island as before. But now I entreat your atten-
tion, whilst I proceed to inform you of a ne\y,
but most surprising scene of life, which here
befel me.
: You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature. One
day it happened, that, going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot very evident on
the sand, as the toes, heel, and every part of
jt, were visible.
Had I seen an apparition in the most fright-
ful shape, I could not have been more confound-
ed { my willing ears gave the. strictest attention:
1 cast my eyes around, but could not satisfy
neither the one nor the other. I proceeded
alternately to every part of the shore,' but
ain; neither could I discover any
..if-
other mark though the sand about it was aq
susceptible to take impression, as that which
was so plainly stamped.
Thus, struck with confusion and horror, I
returned to my habitation, frightened at every
buih and tree, taking every thing for men; and
possessed with the wildest ideas. That night
my eyes never closed. I formed nothing but
the most dismal imaginations, asking myself a
thousand times, how any mortal could come to
this island? Where was the ship that tran-
sported them? And what signs of any other
foot-steps 1 At length, I concluded that some
wild savages of the mainland over against me,
venturing too far in the ocean, had been driven
here, either by the violent currents or contrary
winds; and, not caring to stay on this desolate
island, had gone back .to sea again.
Happy indeed, thought I to myself, that none
of the savages had seen, me in that place; yet'
I was not altogether without fear, lest, having
found my boat, they should return in numbers
and devour me, or at least carry away all my
corn, and destroy my flock of tame goats: in
a word, all my religious hopes vanished, as
though I thought God could not now protect
me fey his power, who had wonderfully preserved
me so long.
What various chains of providence there are
in the heart of man! How changeable are our
affections, according to different circumstances!
We love to day what we hate to-morrow; v.e
shun one hour what we seek the next. Tiiis
was evident with me in the roost conspicuous
manner; for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition in being banished from all
hnman kind, was now even ready to expire, when
I cowsidered that a man had set his foot on this
<lesolate island.
But when I considered my station of life, de-
creed by the infinitely wjse and good providence
of God: that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereignty, who had an unbounded right
to govern and dispose of. his creatures as he
thinks convenient; anfl that his justice and mer-
cy could either punish or deliver me: I s;iy,
wlu:n I considered all this, I found it my duty
to trust sincerely in him, pray ard-enily to him,
and humbly resign myself to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writings came again in'.o my mind,
"Call upoij me in tjie day of trouble and I will
deliver (bee, and thou shall glorify me." Upon
this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my
bed, I offered up my prayers in the most hearty
manner; and when I had done, taking up my
bible to read, these words appeared first to my
sight: "Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and he ,shall strengthen thy heart; wait
I say on the Lord." Such divine comfort did
this give, as to lemove all cause of sadness .upon
•that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears,
for three days and three nights, I at last ventured
out of my castle, and milked my goats, one of
which was almost spoiled for want of it. I next
(though in great fear) visited my bower, and
.milked my flocks there alsp; when growing
bolder, I went down to the shore again, and
measuring the print of the foot to mine, to set
perhaps .\,helher I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in large-
ness; and so returned home, now absolutely
convinced, that either some men had been on
shore, or that the island must be inhabited; and
therefore that I might be surprised before I was
aware.
I now began to think of providing for my sew
fetirity, and resolved in my mind many schemes
for that purpose; I first proposed to cut down
my incloaiircs, and turn my tame cattle wild into
the woods, that the enemy might not find them,
and frequent the island in hopes of killing the
same. Secondly, I was for digging up my corn-
fields for the very same reason. And lastly, I
determined to demolish my bower, lest, seeing a
place of human contrivance, • they might come
farther, and find out and attack me in my little
castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest
to me; and I looked, I thought, like the unfor-
tunate king Saul, when not only oppressed by
the Philistines, but also forsaken by God him-
self. And it is strange that, a little before, hav-
ing entirely resigned myself to the will «»f God,
I should now have little confidence in him, fear-
ing those more who should kill this fading body,
than he who could destroy my immortal soul.
However my fear made me think of a place
for retreat upon an attack. I now repented that
1 had made my door to come out beyond my
fortification; to remedy which, I resolved to
'make me a second one. I fell to work, there-
fore, and drove betwixt that double roV t,f
trees, which I planted about twelve years befoir,
teveral strong piles, thickening it with pieces of
timber and old cable, and strengthening the foot
of it with earth which I dug out of my cave; I
also made me seven holes, wherein I planted uiy
muskets like cannon, fitting them in frames re-
sembling carriages. This being finished, witk
indefatigable industry, for a great way every-
where around, I planted sticks of osier like a
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving a
large space between them and my wall, that 1
might have room to see an,enemy, and thatthey
might not be sheltered among the young trees it'
they offered to approach the outer wall.
Scarcely two years had passed over lay Lead,
•when there appeared a lovely shading grove, and
in bi\ years it became a thick wood perfectly
impassable. For my safety I kft no avenue to
go in or out; instead of which I set two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low and
broken in, leaving room for to place another
ladder upon that, so that, tvhen I took these
down, it was impossible for any man to descend
without hurting himself; and if he had, he would
still be only at the outride of my outer wall.
All this labour was occasioned merely by fear-
ful apprehensions, on account of seeing the print
of a man's foot. And not contented yet with
what I. had done, I searched for another place
towards the west point of the island, where I
might also retain another flock; then, wandering
on this errand more to the west of the island
than ever I had yet done, and casting my eyes
towards the sea, methought I perceived a boat
at a great distance; but could not possibly tell
what it was, for want of my perspective glass.
I considered then that it might be no strange
thing to see the print of a man's foot; and, con-
cluding them cannibals, blessed God for my
being cast on the other side of the island, where
hone of the savages, as I thought, ever came.
When I came down the hill to the shore, which
was the S. W. point of the island, I was soon
confirmed in my opinion; nor can any one de-
scribe my horror and amazement, when I saw
the ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and
bones of human bodies; and particularly I per-
ceived a space like a circle, in the midst of
which had been a fire, about which I conjectured
these wretches had sat, and unnaturally sacrificed
and devoured their fellow-creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
o
ful spectacle confounded my senses, I returned
towards my habitation, and in my way thither
shed floods of tears; and falling down on my
bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to that of these wretches, and
delivering me so long out of their hands.
And although in process of time ray dreadful
apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eye*
were more vigilant, foy fear of being surprised,
and I was very cautious of firing my cun, lest
being heard by those creatures, they, should pro-
ceed to attack me. I'resolved, however, man-
fully te lose my life if they did, and went armed
with three pistols stuck in mr girdle, which, ad
ded to the description I have gwen of myself
before, made me look with a veiy formidable
appearance.
My circu-matances for some tim.e remained Very
calm and undisturbed; and when I compared
my condition to others, I f6und it was far from
being miserable. And, indeed, would all per
sons compare their circumstances, not with those,
above them, but with those innumerable unhappy
objects beneath them, I am sure we should nol
hear' those daily mummrings and complainings
that are in the world. For my part, my whole
thoughts were employed day and night in think-
ing how I might destroy some of these cannibals
uhen proceeding to their bloody entertainments;
and so save a victim from being sacrificed, .that
he might become my servant. Many were my
contrivances for that purpose, and as many ob-
jections occurred after I hud determined au
them.
But having waited in vain two or three months,
without any opportunity occuring of putting my
projects into execution, it not only grew very
tiresome to me, but brought me into some .con-
sideration, and made me examine myself as to
\vhat right I had to kill these creatures in this
manner.
If, urged I to myself, that this natural custom
of theirs was a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs
to the divine Being, who alone hus the vindictive
power in his hands, to shower down IMS veai-
geance upon them: and, perhaps, he does sb in
making them become one another's executio,ners.
Or, if not, if God thinks these doings just, ac-
cording to the knowledge they conceive, what
authority have I to pretend to thwart the de-
crees of Providence, which has permitted these
actions for so many ages, perhaps from almost
the beginning of the creation 1 They never of-
fended me, what right have I then to concern
myself in their shedding one another's blood?
I have since learned, that they think no more
of killing and devouring a captive taken in
war, than we do of killing an 04 or eating
mutton.
Indeed, religion too convinced me that it was
not my duty to be guilty of shedding human
blood, that I had nothing to do with their pu-
nishment, but ought to leave it to the God of all
power and dominion, to do (therein what seemeth
convenient to his heavenly wisdom. And there-
fore, on my knees, I thanked the Almighty for
delivering me from blood-guiltiness, and begged
his protection, that I might never fall into their
hands. .. •
Having thus given over an attempt I had
rashly began, I removed my boat, which was
on the other side of the island, into a little cave,
that there might not be any appearance of an
inhabitant upon the island,,
My castle now became my cell, keeping al-
ways retired in it, except when I went out to
milk my goats and order my little flock iis the
wood, which was quite out of danger.
•
I on Jon, Pvt. June .t-l6vfiyr,itartk
The care of my preservation put a period to
all future inventions and contrivances, either for
accommodation or convenience. I now d;ired
not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a gun, or
make a fire, lest either the noise should be heard,
or the smoke discover me: and on this account
I used to burn the earthenware privately in a
cave which I found in the wood, and which I
made convenient for that purpose.
The cause lhat first brought me to the cave
jvas to make charcoal, so that I might dress my
bread and meat without any danger. At that
time a curious accident happened to me, which
I shall now relate :—While I was cutting down
wood for making my charcoal, I perceived a ca-
vity behind a thick branch of underwood; cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me tp stand up. ,^Ut
.in; but when I had entered and took 4 further
view,, two rolling shining eyes, like flaming stars,
seemed fo dart themselves at me; >.. that I
made all the haste out that I could, not knowing
whether it was a savage or a monster that had
taken up his residence in taat place.
When I recoveied a little from my surprise, I
called myself a thousand fools, and, resuming
c3
all the courage I had, I took up a flaming fire-
brand, and in I rushed again.
I had not proceeded above three steps when
I was more affrighted than before; for then I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, followed by a
broken noise, resembling words half expressed,
and then a deep sigh again. Stepping back—
Lord thought I to myself, where have I got!
Into what enchanted place have I plunged my-
self, such as are reported to contain miserable
captives, till death puts an end to their sorrow?
And, indeed, such a great amazement was I in,
that it struck me into a cold sweat; and had
my but been on my head, I believe my hair
would have moved it off.
But again encouraging myself with God's pro-
tection, I proceeded forward, and, by the light
of my fire-brand, perceived it to be*a monstrous
he-goat, lying on the ground, gasping for life,
and dying of mere old age. At first I stirred
him, thinking to drive him out, and the poor
ancient creature strove to get upon his feet, but
was not able; so.I even let him lie still. I now,
looked round me, and found the place but small
and shapeless. At the further end of it Iper-
eeived a sort of an entrance, yet so low as nmst
oblige me to creep on my hands and knees to
it; so, having no candle, I suspended 'my enter,
prize till the next day, and then I came provided
with two large ones of my own making.
Having crept upon my hands and feet through
this strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I
think about twenty feet; but surely never mor-
tal saw such a glorious sight before! The roof
and walls of this cave reflected a hundred thou-
sand lights to me from my two candU-s, as though
they were indented with shining gold, precious
stones, or diamonds. The floor was dry and
level, and hud a kind of gravel upon it; no nau-
seous or venomous creatures were to be seen
there, neither was there any damp or wet
about it. I could find no fault but in the en-
{rance; and I began to think that even this
might be *ery necessary for my defence, and
therefore resolved to make it my mdst principal
magazine.
I brought hither two fowling-pieces and three
muskets, leaving only five pieces at my castle,
planted in the manner of cannon. From a bar*
rel of gun-powder which I took up out of the
sea, I brought away about sixty pounds of good
powder, which were not damaged; and these,
with a great quantity of lead for bullets, I re-
moved from my castle to this retreat, now forti-
fied both by art and nature.
Rut I must not forget the old goat who caused
ruy late dreadful amazement. The poor creature
died the day after my discovery; and it heing
very difficult to drag him out, I buried him in
the cave.
I was now in the twenty-third yeqr of my
reign, and my thoughts were much easier than
formerly. By this time my parrot had learned
to speak English, and pronounce his words very
articulately and plainly; so that for many hours
we used to chat together after a very iUmiliar
manner, and he lived with me no less than
twenty-six years. My dog, who was nineteen
years old, sixteen of which he lived with me,
died of mere old age. As for my* cats, they
multiplied so fast, that I was forced to drive
them into the woods, except two or three which
became my particular favourites.
Besides these, I continually kept two or three
household kids about me, whom I learned to feed
out of my hand ; and two more parrots, who could
talk indifferently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so well as the first; all which made my abode
very agreeable. .
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyments of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! It was now the
month of December, in the southern solstice,
and the particular time of my harvest, which re-
quired my attendance in the fields: when going
out pretty early one morning, before it was day-
light, there appeared to me, from the sea-sho»,
a flaming light, about two miles from me, at the
east end of the island, where I had observed
some savages had been before, not on the other
side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my
side of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulied up the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place I put myself in a pos-
ture of defence, loading my muskets and pistols;
and committing myself to God's protection, I
resolved to defend myself till my last breath,
hours after, impatient for intelligence, I set,
my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place; and' then pulling the ladder up
after me, ascended to the top, where laying my-
self on my belly, with my perspective glass, I
perceived no less than nine naked savages, sitting
round a fire, eating, as I supposed, human flesh,
with their two canoes hauled on shore, waiting
for the flood to carry them off again.
You cannot easily express the consternation I
was in at this sight, especially seeing them so
near me; but when I perceived their coming must
always be with the current of the ebh, I became
more easy in my thoughts, being very fully con-
vinced, that I might go abroad with security all
the time of flood, if they were not before landed.
And indeed this proved just as I imagined; for
no sooner did they all take boat, and paddle
away, but the tide made north-west. Before they
went off, they /lanced, making ridiculous pos-
tures and gestures, for above an hour, all stark
naked. When I saw them gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and placing a couple of pis-
tols in my belt, with my great sword hanging by
my side, I went to the hill, where at first I made
i discovery of these cannibals, and then saw
there hart been three canoes more of these sa-
vages on shore at that place, which, with the rest,
were making over to the main land.
But nothing conld be more horrible, when going
to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones, and
other mangled parts of human bedies, appeared
in my sight; and so fired was I with indignation,
that I was fully resolved to be revenged' on the
firat that came there, though I should lose mv fife
in the execution. It then appeared to me, that
the visits they made to rtiis island were not very
frequent, hut still I was uneasy, and had dismal
apprehensions of their surprising me unawares;
nor dared I fire a gun on that side of the island
where they used to appear, lest, taking the alarm,
the savages might return with many hundreds of
canoes, and then God knows in what manner I
should have made my end. Thus was I a year
or more before 1 saw any of these devouring can-
nibals again.
But the following accident, which demands
attention, for a while eluded the force of my
thoughts in revenging myself on those heathens.
On the 16th of May, (according to my wooden
calendar) the wind blew exceedingly hard, ac-
companied with abundance of lightning and thun
der all day, and was succeeded by a very stormy
night. The seeming anger of the heavens made
we have recourse to my bible: whilst I was seri-
ously pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
with the noise of a gun, which I conjectured was
fired upon the ocean. Such an unusual sound
made me start up in a minute, when, with my
ladder, ascending the mountain as before, that
very moment a flash of fire presaged the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and
found it was from that r>art of the sea where the
current drove me away.
I could not but then think, that this must
be a ship in distress, and that these were the
melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great indeed was my sorrow upon this occasion;
but my labours to assist them proved altogether
vain and fruitless. However, I brought together
all the dry wood that was at hand, and making
a pretty large pile, set it on fire, on the hill. I
was certain they plainly perceived it, by their
firing another gun as soon as it began to blaze,
and after that several more from the same quarter.
All night long I kept up my fire: and when the
air cleared up, I perceived something a great way
at sea, directly east, but could not distinguish
what it was, even with my glass, the weather
was so very foggy out at sea. However, keep-
ing my eyes directly fixed upon it, and perceiv-
ing it not to stir, I presently concluded it must
be a ship at anchor: and so eager was I to be
satisfied, that, taking up my gun, I went to the
south-east part of the bland, to the same rocks
where I had been formerly drove away by the
current; in which time the weather being per-
fectly cleared up, to my great sorrow I per-
ceived the wreck of a ship cast away upon those
hidden rocks I found when I was out with my
boat: and which by making an eddy, were the
occasion of my preservation.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another's
ruin; for undoubtedly this ship had been driven
on them in the night, the wind blowing strong at
E. N. E. Had they perceived the island, as I
now guessed they had not, instead of having
fired their guns for help, they would rather have
ventured in their boat, and saved themselves that
way. I then thought, that perhaps they had
done so, upon seeing my fire, and were cast
away in the attempt; for I perceived no boat fn
the ship.
But then again I imagined, that perhaps they
r
f
had another vessel in company, which, upon sig-
nal, -saved their lives, and took the boat up; or
that the boat might./be :• driven into the main
ocean, where these poor creatures might be in
the most miserable condition.
„.. When I considered seriously every thing con-
cerning this wreck, and could perceive no room
to suppose any of them saved, I cannot explain,
by any possible force of words, what longings
my soul fe,.t, often breaking out in this manner:
O that there had been but two or three, nay,
even one person saved, that we might have lived
together, conversed' with, and comforted one
another.
, I had the affliction, some time after, to sen
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at
the end" of the island next the shipwreck; there
was nothing'on him but a seaman's waistcoat, a
pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt; but no particular mark to guess what
'nation he, was of.
And now the calmness.of the sea tempted me
to vo'iture out in my boat to this wreck,^ot
. only to get souiething necessary out of the sh^ff
but I thought 3,>me living creature might be on
. board, whose life I might preserve. This had

such an influence upon my mind, that immedi-
ately I went home, and prepared every thing ne-
cessary for the voyage, and carrying on board
my boat provisions of all sorts, with a good
quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass;
putting off, I paddled the canoe along the shore,
till I came at last to the north-east part of the
island, from whence I was to launch into the
ocean: but here the current ran so violently, and
appeared so terrible, that my heart began to fail
me, foreseeing that if I was driven into any of
these currents, I might be . carried not only out
of the reach or sight of the island, but even ine-
vitably lostin the boiling surges of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I
gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little creek
on the sborCj where, stepping out, I sat me
down en a rising hill, very pensive and thought-
ful. I then perceived that the tide was turned,
. and the flood came on, which made it impracti-
cable for me to go out for so many hours,
i That night I .reposed myself in my canot, co-
vered with my watch-coat instead of a blanket.
I set out with the first of, the tide full north, till
I felt the benefit of the current, which carried
me at a great rate eastward, yet not with such
P2
impetuosity as before; so that in two hours tirot
I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me a
most melancholy sight.
It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by its build-
ing, stuck fast between two rocks; her stern and
quarter beaten to pieces by the sea, her main-
mast and foremast were brought off by the board;
•that is, broken short off. As I approached
nearer, I perceived a dog on board, who seeing
roe, yelped and cried; and no sooner did I call
to him, but the poor creature jumped into the
sea, out of which I took him up, almost fa-
mished with hunger and thirst; so that, when I
gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf
could devour it more greedily; and he drank to
that degree of fresh water, that he would have
burst himself, had I suffered him.
The first sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle, in-
closed in one another's arms: also I perceived
several chests, which I supposed belonged to the
seamen, two-of which I got into my boat, without
examining what was in them.
I could not otherwise conclude, but that the
ship must have abundance of wealth on board, by
what I afterwards found in the chests; but what
had become of the rest of the sailors, I could
not tell; and all the riches of the ship signified
nothing at that time to any body.
Searching farther, I found a cask, containing
about twenty gallons of liquor, which, with some
labour, I got into my boat. In a cabin were se-
veral muskets, which I let remain there; but
took away with me a great powder-horn, with
about four pounds of powder in it. I took also
a fire-shovel and tongs, two brass kettles, a cop-
per pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron, all
which were extremely necessary. And so, with
this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I came
away, the tide serving tor that purpose; and the
same evening 1 attained the island, after the
greatest toil and fatigue imaginable. .
That night I reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next looming to harbour what
I had gotten in .my; 'flew-found subterraneous
grotto, aud not carry my cargo home to my an-
cient castle. Having refreshed myself, and got
all my effects on shore, I next proceeded to exa-
mine the particulars. ',-.
At the opening of the chest, several things ap-
peared very useful to me: for instance, there
were several good shirts, exceedingly welcome to
r 3
me, and about a dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs and coloured neck-cloths; and in
the till I found three bags of pieces of eight,
about eleven hundred in all, in one of which,
wrapt up in a piece of paper, were six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which, I believe, might weigh nearly
apound.
In the other chest, which I guessed to belong
to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances
that attended it, I only found some clothes of
very little value, except about two pounds of fine
glazed powder, in three flasks, kept, as I believe,
for charging their fowling-pieces on any occasion;
so that, on the whole, I had no great advantage
by this voyage.
I also found in the seamen's chests about fifty
pieces of eight in rials, but no gold; I therefore
concluded that what I took from the first be-
longed to an officer, the latter appearing to have
a much inferior person for its owner. However,
despicable as the money seemed, I likewise
lodged it in my cave, laying it up securely, as I •
did the rest of my cargo; and after I had done
all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing or
paddling her along, till I came to my old har-
hour, where I enefully laid her up, and so made
thibest of my way to my castle.
When I arrived there, every thing seemed safe
andquie . And now my only business was tore-
pose myself after my wonted manner, and take
care of my domestic affairs. But though I might
have li 'ed very comfortably, wanting for nothing
absolutely needful, yet still I was more vigilant
than usual on account of the savages, never going
much abroad; or if I did, it was to the eastern
part of the island, where, I was well assured, the
savages never came, and where I might not be
troubled to carry that heavy load of weapons for
my defence, w hich I was obliged to do if I went
the other waj.
Two pars did * live in this anxious condition,
in all w hit h tune, contrary to my former resolu-
tions, my head was filled with nothing but pro-
jects and designs how I might escape from this
island; and so much weie my wandering thoughts
bent on a rambling disposition, that, had I the
same boat that I went from Sallee in, I should
have ventured once mo* to the uncertainty of
the raging ocean. ^
I cannot, however, but consider myself as one
of the unhappy persons, who make themselves
wretched by their dissatisfaction with the sta-
tions which God has placed them in; for, not to
take a view of my primitive condition, and my
father's excellent advice, (the going contrary to
which was, as I may say, my original sin) the
following mistakes of flie same nature certainly
bad been the means of my present unhappy sta-
tion. What business had I to leave a stitled
fortune and well-stocked plantation, improving
and increasing, where, by this time, I might have
been .worth one hundred thousand moidores, to
turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch negroes,
when time and patience would have so much en-
larged my stock at home, as to be able to employ
those whose more immediate business it was to
fetch them home, even to my own door.
But as this is commonly the fate of young
heads, so a serious reflexion upon the folly of its
consequences attends the exercise of future years,
when the dear-bought experience o£ time teaches
repentance. /
Thus it was with me: but notwithstanding, the
thoughts of my deliverance ran so strongly in my
mind, that it seemed to check all the dictates of
reason ar.d philosophy. And now, to usher in
my kii.d reader to tke remaining part of my rek-i
ties, I flatter myself it will not be taken amiss
to give him an account of my first conceptions of
the manner of escaping, and upon what founda-
tion I laid my foolish schemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voy-
age to the ship, my frigate laid up and secured,
as usual, and my condition the same as before,
exeept being richer, though I had as little occa-
Mom for riches as the Indians of Peru had for gold
before the cruel Spaniards came among them!
One night in March, being the rainy seasons in
the four-and-twentietb year of my solitude, I lay
down to sleep, very well in health, without dis-
temper, pain, or uncommon uneasiness, either of
body or mind, yet notwithstanding I could not
compose myself to sleep all the night lon». AH
this tedious while, it is impossible to express what
innumerable thoughts came into my head. I
traced the whole history of my life, from my ut-
most remembrance of things, till I came to this
island; and then proceeded to examine every ac-
tion and passage that had occurred since I had
taken possession of my kingdom.
In my reflexions upon the latter, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the be-
ginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear;
and concern, since I had discovered the prmt of
a foot in the sand; that while I continued with-
out apprehension, I was incapable of feeling the
dread and terror I now suffered. How thankful
rather ought I to have been for the knowledge of
my danger, since the greatest happiness one can
be possessed of, is to have sufficient time to pro-
vide against it! How stupendous is the good-
ness of Providence, which sets such narrow
bounds to the sight and knowledge of human na-
ture, that while men walk in the midst of so many
dangers,. they are kept serene and calm, by hav-
ing the event of things hid from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround them, till perhaps they are dissipated
and vanish away!
When I came more particularly to consider of
the real danger I had for so many years -escaped;
how I had walked about in the greatest security
and tranquillity, at the time, perhaps, when even
nothing but the brow of the hill, a great tree, or
the common approach of night, had interposed
between me and the destructive hands of the can-
nibals, who would devour me with as good an
appetite as I would a pigeon or a curlieu; surely
all thi£, I say, could not but make me sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, whose singular
protection I acknowledged with the greatest hu-
mility, and without which I must inevitably have
fallen into the cruel hands of those devourers.
I next proceeded to consider fhe wretched na-
ture of these destroying savages, by seeming,
though with great reverence, to enquire why God
should give up any of his creatures to such inhu-
manity, even to brutality itself, to devour its,own
kind? But as this was rather matter of obstruse
speculation, aud as my miserable situation made
me think this of mine the most uncomfortable
situation hi the world, I then began rather to
enquire what part of the world these wretches'
lived in; how far off the coast was from whence
they came; why they ventured over so far from
home; what kind of boats conveyed them hither;
aud why I could not order myself and my busi-
uess so, that I might be as able to attain their
country as they were to comeinto-my kingdom?
But, thought I, how shall I manage myself
when I come hither? What will become of we
if I fall into the hands of the savages, or hew
shall I escape from them if they make an attempt
upon me; and supposing I should not fall into
their power, what shall I do for provision, or
which way shall I bend my course? These
counter-thoughts threw me into the greatest horror
and confusion imaginable; but then, I still looked
upon my present condition to be the most miser-
able that possibly could be, and that nothing
could be worse, except death. For, thought I,
could I but attain the shore of the main, I might
perhaps meet with some relief, or coast it along,
as I did with my boy Xnry on the African shore,
till I came to some inhabited country, where I
might meet with some relief, or fall in with some
Christian ship that might take me in; and if I
failed, why then- I could but meet with death,
which would put an end to all my miseries.
These thoughts, I must confess, were the fruits
of a distempered mind; an impatient temper
made me desperate, as it were, by the long con-
tinuance of the troubles and the disappointments
I had met with in the wreck, where I hoped to
have found some living person to speak to, by
whom I might have known in what place I was,
and of the probable means of my deliverance.
Thus, while my thoughts were agitated, my re-
signation to the will of heaven was entirely sus-
pended; so that I had no power to fix my mind
to any thing, but to the project of a voyage to
tbe mainland. And, indeed, so much was I en-
flamed on this account, that it set my blood into
a 'ferment, and my pulse beat a» high as though
I had been in a fever, till nature being, as it were,
fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of
it, made me submit myself to a silent repose.
About a year and a half after this, when I
rose one morning, I saw no less than five canoes,
full of savages, land on my side of the island. I
retreated into my castle, ready to die with terror.
t After a little time, however, hearing no sound
of their approach, I loaded all my muskets, and
clambered to the top of my hill, with my per-
spective glass and a gun, taking care to stand so
that I could not be seen from the shore,
The savages had kindled a great fire, around,
which they danced with frantic gestures; they
tjien dragged two poor wretches out of a.canoe,
one of whom they immediately killed, and began
to cut him in pieces, while the other victim was
left standing by himself, till they should be ready
for him. The poor creature seeing himself at
liberty for a moment, suddenly started away, and
ran with incredible swiftnes directly towards me.
, I was terribly frightened, I must confess,
expecting the whole body would be instantly in
Q
pursuit of him; but recovered my courage a little
when I saw that only three followed, and that he
greatly outstrip! them in the speed of his run*
ning.
There was between my castle and them a
creek, where I landed my cargoes when I first
came to the island, and there I thought the poor
fellow would assuredly be taken; but he made
nothing of swimming over it, though the tide
tvas up, and having reached the opposite shore,
he ran on still faster than before. Two of his
pursuers plunged into the water, but the third,
I suppose, could not swim; for he turned round
and walked back to his companions.
I could no longer forbear making an attempt
to save the life of him who fled; and with a gun
in each hand, I ran swiftly down the hill, and
rushing upon the foremost pursuer, knocked him
down with the butt end of my musket.
I was determined not, if I could avoid it, tt>!
fire, lest the rest of the savages should hear the
report of the gun, and be attracted to the spot.
The other pursuer stopped and stood still at a
little distance, and I perceived he was preparing,
his bow-and-arrow to shoot me; then I was
obliged to fire, and I killed him on the spot The,
poor savage, though he saw both his enemies
fallen, yet was so affrighted with the noise and
fire of my piece, that it was with difficulty I
could prevail on him to approach me. By de-
grees he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down
at every ten or twelve steps, and having come
close up to me, he kissed the ground) and put
my foot upon his head.
I caressed him, and encouraged him all I
could; but there was more work to be done, far
the savage whom I had knocked down was be-
ginning to recover. I pointed and made signs of
his recovery to my savage, as I may call him,
upon which he spoke sorrTe words: and though I
did not understand them, yet they were pleasant
tc- hear, being the first sound of human voice
(my own exeepted) that I had heard for twenty-
five years', My savage, finding J did not under-
stand his language, made signs to entreat I would
lend him the sword which hung naked in mv belt.
. I gave it into hjs hand, and with one blow he cut
off his enemy's head, which he laid at my feet
with abundance of trinmphant gestures,
he went uj> to the other Indian, and w$s
beyond description to think how fjfj
him so far off. He turned him first on one side,
then on the other, and examined the wound the
bullet had made in his breast. I called him away
to bury the savages; and he, with uncommon
dexterity, dug with his hands a large hole in the
ground, into which he put both savages, and
covered them carefully up, that their companion*
might not ,find them.
I then took him home with me, and having
given him bread and raisins, with some water,
which he seemed greatly to stand in need of, I
pointed him to some rice-straw, on which he laid
down to sleep.
I then went up the hill, and saw through my
glass that his enemies were getting into their ca-
noes. Whether alarmed by the report of :the
gun or the absence of their comrades, I knew
not, but they rowed away to sea, without making
any search after their lost companions.
My savage was a handsome youth, about twenty-
six years of age; the colour of his skin was taw-
tiey; his hair was long, not woolly and curly, like
the African negroes; he had fine eyes, a good
mouth, and teeth as white as ivory. The quali-
ties of his mind surpassed the perfection of his
body. He was the most submissive, gentle, and
affectionate creature that ever lived. I made him
clothes of goat-skin, which he found very un-
comfortable at first, having gone naked all hi$
life: their use soon, however, became familiar,
and even pleasant to him. I called hirn by the
name of FKIDAY, for it was on that day that I
saved his life. I taught him to call me master,
to say yes and no ; and, by degrees, he learnecf my
language so perfectly, that he understood every
thing I said to him, and could hold an intelligible
conversation with me.
He informed me, that his nation being at war
with another nation, he was taken prisoner, and
brought to the island to. be devoured by his ene-
mies from whom I had rescued him; and on this
occasion the following dialogue passed between
us :—I asked him whether his nation were ever
conquerors in battle? He smiled, and said
proudly, "My nation always fight most better."
"How," said I, "came you then to be taken pri-
soner?"
FRIDAY—" My nation beat much for all that;
but they, more than my nation in place where
me was, they take one, two, and three, and me!
My nation beat much in yonder place, where me
no was; there my nation take one, two, grpat
thousand!"
<* Q3 ,"
,
MASTER—" Well, Friday; and does your
nation also eat the men they take in battle?
FRIDAY—" Yes."
MASTER—" Where do they carry them?"
FRIDAY—" Other place; many place."
MASTER—" Do they ever come hither?"
FRIDAY—"Yes, and other else place."
MASTER—" Have you been here with them'?"
: PRIDAY—" Yes, I been here, there."
He pointed to the side of the island where I
saw the print of the foot, and when I carried
him thither, he shewed me the place where they
had once destroyed twenty me», two women, and
one child, all prisoners of war. He could not
count tv/enty in English, but numbered them by
laying so many stones in a row. It was distress-
ing to me to think, that a creature so intelligent,
and of so good and amiable a disposition, should
delight in such horrid repasts. I took the greatest
pains to convince him of the depravity of such,
an abominable custom; and after being with me
some time he seemed to entertain as great a dis-
gust of the practice as I could wish.
The simplicity, tenderness, and unfeigned ho-
nesty of Friday's disposition, endeared him to me
more and more every day; and on his side, he
loved me more than he had ever loved any thing
before. He was handy, alert, and useful; and
so particularly diligent and merry, :hat my life
became not merely easy, but pleasant also.
Although Friday had seen me kill the savage
that was his pursuer, he had no idea yet how it
was done. One day, having loaded my gun pri-
vately, I took him out with me into the woods;
and seeing as we passed along a she-goat with two
kids lying by her, I caught Friday by the arm,
bid him stand still, and levelling my piece, shot
cue «f the kids. The poor fellow looked so
amazed, I thought he would have sunk on the
ground. He did not perceive that I had killed
the kid, but tore open his jacket to look (-•• his
own wounds. He then fell on his knees, entreat-
ing I would spare liis life! I hushed al luni,
and shewed him the kid; and while he was look-
ing at it with extreme wonder and emotion, t re-
loaded my gun, and calling him to look at a fly ing
bird, 1 instantly b< ought it to the ground.
His astonishment at this engine of destruction
.did not wear off for a long time; and when he
was left alone beside the gi.n, he used ro kneel
down, and beseech it not to kill him. After we
became more intimately acquainted I explained
83
the mystery, and taught him how to shoot; I
likewise gave him a knife, and made him a belt
to carry his hatchet in, all of which delighted
him wonderfully.
Being able to converse with Friday on such
equal terms, I related my history to him. It was
particularly gratifying to me to describe to him
the manners and customs of my native country,
his remarks abounded with so much good sense
and honest feeling.
One day when I had been speaking of the
manner in which I came to that island, I carried
him to the place where the wreck of the boat
from which I had so miraculously escaped still
lay on the sand. Friday stood musing by, it
some time, and at length said, " M[e see such
boat like come to place at my nation, full of
white mans; and we, my nation, save white mans
from drown."
On questioning him further, I learned that
there were seventeen white men in the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he
added with some warmth, "We save the white
mans from drown." Then I presently asked him
if there were any white mans, as he called them,
u&. June 4. -ifioj, by jfobartkC0,
in the boat?" Yes, (he said) the boat full of
white mans." I asked him how many? He told
upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then
what became of them? He answered, "They
iive-"xthey dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I
presently imagined that these might be the meii
belonging to the ship that was cast away insight
of my island, as I now call it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her
inevitably lost, 'had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. Upon this, I enquired of
him more particularly what was become of them?
He assured me they still lived there; that they
had been there about four years; that the sa-
vages let them alone, and gave them victuals. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill
them and eat them? He said, " No : they make
brother with them." That is, as I understood
him, a truce. And then he added, "They n.6
eat mans, but' when they make the war ti«ht.*
That is to say, they never eat any men, but such
as come to fight with them, and are taken in
battle.
• • 'ft was after this some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, from whence, as I have said, I had
in a clear day discovered the main, or continent
of America; Friday, the weather being very se-
rene, looked very earnestly towards the main-
land, and, in a kind of surprise, began jumping
and dancing, and called out to me, for I was at
some distance from him. I asked him what was
the matter? "Oh joy—oh glad! (said he).
There see my country—there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and
his countenance discovered a strange eagerness,
as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again; and this observation of mine put a great
many thoughts into my head, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man, Friday, as I
was before; and I made no doubt but that if
Friday could get back to his own nation again,
he would forget all his obligations to me, and
would be forward enough to give his countrymen
an account of me, and come back perhaps with
a hundred or two of them and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used tp
be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war. But I wronged the poor honest
treature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards.
However, as my jealousy increased and held
ine some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
aud not so familiar and kind to him as before; in
this I was certainly in the wrong too, the honest,
grateful creature having no thought about him
but what consisted of the best principles, both
as a religions Christian, and as a grateful friend,
which appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
Sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts which I
suspected were in him: but I found every thing
he said was so honest and so innocent, that I
could trace nothing to nourish my suspicion: and,
in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last
entirely his own again; nor did he in the least
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could
not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the
weather being hazy at sea, so that we could not
see the continent, I called to him, and said, Fri-
day, do not you wish yourself in your own conn-
try, your own nation' "Yes, (he said) I be
cuch oh glad to be at KJ ovm nation !'* What
would you do there, said I: would you turn wild
again—eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as
you were before? He looked full of concern;
and, shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God,
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no
eat man again."
Why then, said I to him, they will kill you.
lie looked grave at that, and then said, "Np,
they no kill me: they willing love learn." He
meant by this they would be willing to learn.
He added, "They learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat."
Then I asked him if he would go back to
them? He smiled at that, and told me he could
not swim so far, I told him I would make a cauoe
for him. He told me he would go, if I would
go with him. I go, said 1: why they will eat
me if I come there!" No, no; (says he) me
. make they no eat you—me make they much love
you." He meant, he would tell them how I had
killed his enemies, and .saved his life; and so he
would make them love me. T1i?u be told me, as
veil as h£ could, how kind they were to the se;
venteen white men, or.bearded men, as he caliet}
them, who came to shore there in distress. ,
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to
venture over, and see if I could possibly join
Vith these bearded men, who, I made no doubt,
were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but,
if I could, we might find some method to escape
from thencei being upon the continent, and a
good company together, better than I could from
an island forty miles off the shore, and alone
without help. So,, after some days, I took Friday
to work againi, by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to go back to his
own nation; and accordingly I carried him to
my frigate, which lay on the other side of the
island; and, having cleared it of water, (for I
always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it
out, shewed it him, and we both went into it.
1 found he was a most dexterous fellow at ma-
naging it, and would make it go almost as swift
again as I coukl. So when he was in, I said
to him, Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your
nation? He looked very dull at my saying so,
which, it seems, was because he thought the
boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had
a bigger; so the next day I went to the place
where the first boat lay which I had made, but
which I could ,not get into the water. He said
R
that was big enough; but then, as I had takefi
no care of it, and it had lain two or three and'
twenty years, the sun had split and dried it, that
it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, such a boat would do very
•well, and would carry much enough vittle, drink,
bread; that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed
upon my' design of going over with him to the
continent, that I told hirja we would go and make
one as big as that, and he should go home in it.
He answered not one word, but looked very grave
and sad. I asked him what was the matter with,
him? He asked me again thus: " Why you
angry mad with Friday—what me done?" I
asked him what he meant'? I told him I was not
angry with him at all. "No angry, no angry I
(said he, repeating the words several times) Why
ieud Friday h me again to my nation?" Why,
said I, Friday, did not you say you wished you
•were there "Yes, yes, (said he) wish be both
tii.-re. No wish Friday there, no master there!"'
ID a word, he would not think of going there
witWut me. I go there, Friday! said I. What
shall I do there 1 He turned very quick upon
me at this. "You do great deal much good:
(«aid he) you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God,
and live new life!" Alas, Friday, said I, thou
knowest not what thou sayest! I am but an ig-
norant man myself. "Yes, yes; (said he) you
teachee Jne good—you teachee them good." No,
no, Friday, said I, you shall go without me:
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before.
He looked confused again at that word; and
running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it ]up hastily, and gives it to me.
What must I do with this? said I to him. "You
take kill Friday!" said he. What must I kill
you for? said I again. He returns very quick,
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday—no send Friday away!" This he spoke
so earnestly, that I saw tears sland in his eyes.
Ill a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost af-
fection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
him, that I told him then, and often after, that
I wou!4 never send him away from me, if he
were willing to stay with me.
J still found a strong inclination to attempt my
escape, founded on the supposition that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and, there-
fore, without any more delay, I went to work
R 9
with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell,
and make a large periagua, or canoe, to under-
a
take the voyage. There were trees enough in
the island to have huilt a little fleet, not of pe-
riaguas and canoes, but even of good large ves.
sels. But the main thing I looked at was, to get
cue so near the water, that we might launch it
when it was made, to avoid the mistake I com-
»
mitted at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found
he knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was
very like the tree we call fustic, or between that
and the Nicaragua-wood; for it was much of the
same colour and smell. Friday was for burning
the hollow, or cavity, of this tree out, to make
it into a boat; but I shewed him how rather to
cut it out with tools, which, after I had shewed
him how to use, he did very handily: and in
about a month's hard labour we finished it, and
made it very handsome; especially when with our
axes, which I shewed him how to handle, we cut
and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a
fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch

by inch, upon great rollers, into the water: but
when she was in, she would have carried twenty
men with ease.
When she was in the water, and though she
was so big, it amazed me to see with what dexte-
rity and how swift my man Friday could manage
her, turn her and paddle her along; so I asked
him if we might venture over in her? "Yes;
(he said) me venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had a
farther design that he knew nothing of; and that
was to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with
an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight
young cedar tree, which I found near the place,
and of which there was great plenty in the
island; and I set Friday at work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to shape and order it.
But as to the sail, that was my particular > are.
I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails, enough; but as I had had them IK-.v twenty-
six years by me, and had not been very careful to
preserve them, not imagining I should ever have
'this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten, and indeed most of them
were so. However, I found two pieces which
R 3
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to
work, and with a g: eat deal of pains, and awkward
tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly
thing; hke what we call in England ,a. shoulder
of mutton sail, togo with a boom at bottom, and
a little short sorit at the top, such as usually our
ship's long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage; because it was such a one
as I used in the boat in which I made my escape
from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story. I was near two mouths performing this
last work, viz. rigging and fitting my mast and
sails; for I finished them very complete, making
a small stay, and a sail, or forepil, to it, to
assist, it we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her, to steer with: and though I was but a
bungljng shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness,
and even necessity of such a thing, I applied
myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass, though, considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, 1 think
it cost me almost as much labour as making tire
boat.
After all this wag done, I had my map Friday
to teach as to what belonged tor the navigation of
my boat; for, tiioi;, Ii he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of what be-
longed to a sail and a rudder; aud was the most
amazed when he saw me work the boat too and
again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw
this, he stood like one astonished and amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an expert
sailor, except that as to the compass—I could
make him understand very little of that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy wea-
ther, and seldom, or never, any fogs in those
parts, there was the less occasion for a compass,
seeing the stars were always to be seen by night
and the shore by day, except in the raining sea-
sons, and then nobody cared to go abroad, either,
by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth
year of my. captivity in this place; though the
three last years I had this creature with me ought
rather to be left out of the account, my habita-
tion being quite of another kind than in all the.
rest of my time. I ,kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thankfulness to God
for his mercies, as at first; and if I had'such
cause of acknowledgment at first; I had much
more so now, having such additional testimonies
of the care of Providence over me, and the great
hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression
upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in
this place. However, I went on with my hus-
bandry, digging, planting, fencing, as usual. I
gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessarything as before.
The rainy season was in the meantime upon
me, when I kept more withindoors than at other
times; so I had stowed our new vessel us secure
as we eould, bringing her up into .the creek;
wGere, as I said in the beginning, I landed my
rafts from'the ship, and hauling her up to the
shore at high water-mark. , I made my man Fri-
day dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
her, and just deep enough to give her water to
float in; and thenj when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep
the' water out; so she lay dry, as to the tide from
the sea, and to keep the rain off, we laid a great
many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as
well thatched as a house; and thus we waited
for the mouths of November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled sen son began to come in, as
the thought of my design returned with the fair
weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage;
and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our
voyage; and intended in a week or fortnight's
time to open the dock and launch out our boat.
I \vas busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when J called to Friday, and bid him go
to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle
or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he
came running back, and flew over my outer wall,
or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or
the steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to speak to him, he cried out to me, "Oh
master, master! Oh sorrow! Oh bad!" What's
matter, Friday? said I. "Oh, yonder, there,
(said he) one, two, three canoe—one, two, three!"
By thjs way of speaking, I concluded there
•pere six; but on enquiry, I found there were
tat thre«. Well, Friday, said I, do not be
frighted. So I heartened him up as well as I'
could. However, I saw the poor fellow was
most terriby scared : for nothing run in his head,
but that they were come to look for him, and
ivould cut him in pjeces; and the poor fellow
trembled so, that I scarcely knew what to do
with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would kill me as well as him. But
Friday, said I, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" Me shoot; (said he)
but there come many great number!'' No matter
for that, said I again, our guns will frighten them
that we do not kill. So I asked him whether, if
I resolved to defend him, he would defend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bid him? Ho
said, "Me die when you bid me, master!"
I then went and fetched a good dram of rum,
and gave him ; for I had been so very careful of my
rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with
large swan-shot, as big aj small,pistol-bullets.
Then I took four muskets, and loaded therii with
two slugs and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each.
I huitg toy great sword, as usual, naked by my
side, ami gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective-glass, and went np to the side of the
hill to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes.
I observed also, that they were landed not where
they had done when Friday made his escape; but
nearer to uiy creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to
the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhu-
man errand these wretches came about, filled me
with such indignation, that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go
down to them and kill them all, and asked him
if he would stand by me? He had now gotten
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised
with the dram 1 had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told tie as before that he would die
when I bid him.
In this fit of fury, I divided the arms which I
charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol and tl^
other three myself: and in this posture w£
marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in
my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag, wilh
more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I
charged him to keep close behind me, and not to
stir or shoot, or do any thing till I bid him; and
in the meantime not to speak a word. In this
posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek, as to
get into the wood; so that I might come within
shot of them before I should be discovered,
which, I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, 1 began to abate my resolu-
tion. I do not mean that 1 entertained any fear
of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them;
nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much
less what necessity I was in to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done nor intended me any wrong. These things
were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as I went, that I resolved I would only go
and place myself near them, that I might observe
their baibarous feast, and that I would act then
as God should direct; but that unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I
knew ot', I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and
with all possible weariness and silence, Friday
following close at my heels. I marched till I
came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them; only that one corner of the
wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and shewing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the weed, I bid him
go to the tree and bring me word if be could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so,
and came immediately back to me, and tokt me
they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, and that a prisoner lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, which
he said they would kill, and fired all the very soul
within me, when he told me it was not one of
their nation, but one of the bearded men who
had come to their country in the boat.
Upon hearing this my soul was ready,to sink
within me; when, ascending up into a tree, I
saw plainly by my glass a white man', -who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
feet tied with flags, or things resembling rushes,
s
being covered with clothes, and seemed to be a
European.
From the tree where I took this prospect-I
perceived another tree and a thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than where I
was, which, by taking a small circle round, I
might come at undiscovered, and then I should
be within half a shot of these devourers. And
this consideration alone, to be more perfectly
revenged upon them, made me withhold my pas-
sion, though I was enraged to the highest degree
imaginable; when, going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all
the way till I came to the other tree; and then
I ascended a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance from them, and there I
had a full view of these creatures, and I could
perceive aH their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me
not to lose a moment's time. There were no
less than nineteen of these dreadful wretches set
upon' the ground, closely huddled together, ex-
pressing all the delight- imaginable at so bar-
barous an entertainment; and they had just sent
the other two to murder this unhappy Christian,
• and bring Iiim perhaps limb by limb to their lire;
for they were just then going to untie the bands
from his feet, in order for death, as fetters are
knocked off from the feet of malefactors, before
they go to the place of execution. Herenpon,
immediately turning to my man, now, Friday,
said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing, but do
exactly as you see me do: all which he promised
he would perform. I set down one of my mu&-
kets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and
Friday did the same by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him to do the like. Are you ready 1 said I.
"Yes, master," said he. Why then fire at them,
said I; and that very moment I fired also.
For my part, I killed one and wounded two;
but my man Friday taking his aim much better
than I, killed two and wounded three. They
were in a dreadful consternation at such an un»
expected disaster; and those who had yet es,-
caped our penetrating shot, immediately jumped
upon their feet; but were in such confusion,
that they knew not which way to run or look, not
knowing from whence their destruction came. We
then threw down our pieces and took up others,
giving a second dreadful volley; but as they were
loaded only with swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
s2
we perceived only two of them fall; but so many
were wounded, that they ran yelling and scream-
ing about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
said I, lay down your piece and take up the
musket, and follow me.
lie did so with great courage; when, shewing
ourselves to the savages, we gave a shout, and
made directly to the poor victim, -who would
Lave been sacrificed/had not our first fire obliged
the butchers, with three others, to jump into
the canoe. By nry order, Friday fired at them,
at which shot I thought he had killed them all,
by reason of their falling to the bottom of the
boat; however, he killed two, and mprtally
wouhded a third.
• In the meantime I cut the flags, that tied the
hands and feet of the poor creature; and lifting
him up, asked him in the Portuguese tongue
what he was? He answered me in latin, "Chris-
tianus." But so very weak and faint, that he
could scarcely stand or speak. Immediately I
gave him a dram and a piece of bread to cherish
him, and asked him what countryman he was 1
He said, "Espanola," and then uttered all the
thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Senor, said I, with as much Spanish as I was
J
•'-
master of, let us talk afterwards, but fight now:
here, take this sword and pistol, and do what
you can. And indeed he did so with such cou-
rage and intrepidity, that he cut two of them to
pieces in an instant, the savages not having the
power to fly for their lives.
I ordered Friday to run for those pieces we
had left at the tree, which he brought to me
. with great swiftness; and then I gave him my
musket, while I loaded the rest.
, But now there happened a fierce encounter
between the Spaniard and one of the savapcs,
who had made at him with one of their wooden
swords; and though the former was as brave as
could be expected, having twice wounded his
enemy in the head; yet, being faint, the Indian
had thrown him upon the ground, and was wrest-
ing my sword out of his hand, which the Spa-
niard vary wisely quitting, drew out his pistol
and shot him through the body, before I coultl
come near him, though I was running to his as-
sistance. As to Friday, he pursued the flying
•wretches with his hatchet, di•; etching three;
but the rest were too nimble for him. Hie Spa-
niard, taking up one .of the fowling-pieces,
Bounded two, whom, running into the weocl,
S3
Friday pursued and killed one; but the other,,
notwithstanding his wounds, plunged himself
into the sea, and swam to those who were left in.
the canoe, which, with one wounded, were all.
that escaped out of twenty-one.
The account is as follows:
Killed at .)he first shot from the tree- • • • 3
At file second shot 2
By Friday, in the boat 2
Ditto, of those first wounded • • 2
By the Spaniard 3
Killed or died ,of their wounds 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded,
if not sjain 4
Total 21
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
pursuing them : and indeed I was no iess anxious
about their escape, lest, after the news had been
carried to their people, they should return in
multitudes to destroy us. So, being resolved to
pursue them, I jumped into one of their canoes,
and bid Friduy follow me; but no sooner was I
in, when, to my surprise, I found another poor
creature.bound hand and foot for the slaughter,
just- as the Spaniard had been, with very little
-lilt- in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up, but he could neither
stand nor speak; but groaned piteously, thinking
he was unbound in order to be slain,. Herenpon
J bid Friday speak to him, and tell him of his
deliverance; whtn, pulling out my bottle, I made
the poor wretch drink a dram, which, with the'
joyful news he Lad received, so revived his heart,
tha,t he sat up in the boat.
As soon as Friday began to hear him speak,
and looked more fully in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to perceive his uncommon'
transports of joy; for he kissed him, embraced
him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried, again,
wrung his hands, beat his face and head, then
sung and jumped about again like 9 distracted
creature; so that it was a great while before \
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was
the matter with him; but when he came to the
liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was his
father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see the
dutiful and tender affection of thi* poor savage
to his aged parent. He would sit down by him
in the boat, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
vrhich were stiff and numbed with binding, and
and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; by
which means, perceiving what the case was, I
gave him som? rum, which proved of great be-
nefit to him.
While we were basy in this action the savages
had gotten almost out of-sight, and happy it was
we did not pursue them; for there arose from,
the north-west, •'which continued all night long,
such a violent storm, that I could not suppose
otherwise but that they were all drowned. After
this I called Friday to me, and asked him if he
had given his father any bread? He shook his
head, and said, "None, not one bit—me cat it
up all." So I gave him a cake of bread out of
a little pouch I carried for this end. I likewise
gave him a dram for himself, and two or three
bunches of raisins for his father. Both these, he
carried to him, for he would wake him drink the
dram to comfort him. Away he then runs out of
the boat, as if he were bewitched, with such en
extraordinary snifrnes', hat he was out of sitht,
vs it were, iu an instant; but at his return I per-
•
ceivcd him slacken his pace, because he had
something in his hand; and this I found to be,
as he approached nearer, an earlhcu jug with
some water to his father, and two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being
very thirsty myself, I drank some of the water,
of which, when his father had drank sufficiently,
it more revived his spirits than all the rum I had
given him.
When his father had drank, I called to him, to
know if there were any water left? He. said,
"Yes." And I bid him give it to the poor Spa-
niard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
brought to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied
with.
When I saw that upon Friday's coming to him
with the water he sat up and drank, and took
the bread and began to eat, I went to him, and
gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up in
my face, with all the tokens pf gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any counte-
nance. He was so weak, notwithstanding he
had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand upon his feet. He tried to do it two
or three times; but was really not able, his
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him. So
I bid him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ankles and bathe them with rum as he had done
his father's. I observed the poor affectionate
creajure every two minutes, or perhaps less, all
the while he was here, turned his head about, to
see if h}s father was in the same place and pos-
ture as he left him sitting; and.at last he found
he was not to be seen, at which he started up,
and, without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, that one could scarcely perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but
when he came, be only found he hail laid himself
down to ease his limbs. So Friday came back to
me presently; and I then spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday,help him up if he could, and lead
him to the boat, and then he should carry into
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which Friday made nothing to take him
upon his back, and so carried him to the canoe,
setting him close by his father; and presently
stepping »ut again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could
walk, though the wind blew very hard too; and
Laving brought them safe to the creek, away he
runs to fetch the other canoe, which he brought
to the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
when wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat. But so weak were they, that I
was forced to make a kind of hand-barrow; and
when I came to my castle, not being willing to
make an entrance into my wall, we made them a
handsome tent, covered with old sails and bftughs
of trees, making two good beds of rice-straw,
with blankets to lie upon and cover them. Thus,
like an absolute king, over subjects who owed
their lives to me, I thought myself very great,
especially considering I had lhree religions in my
kingdom; my man Friday being a protestant, his
father a pagan, and the Spaniard a papist; but I
gave liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goaf, which,
when he had done it, I cut off the hinder quar-
ters, and chopping it into small pieces, boiled
and stewed it, putting barley and rice into the
broth. This I carried into their tent, set a table,
dined with them myself, and encouraged them.
Friday was my interpreter to his father, and in-
deed to the Spaniard too, who spoke the language
of the savages pretty well. After dinner I or-
dered Friday to fetch home all the arms from the
field of battle, and the next day to bury the
dead bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his father
whether he thought those savages had escaped
the late storm in their canoe; and if so, whether
they would not return with a power too great for
us to resist 1 He answered, that he thought it
impossible they should outlive the storm; or if
they were driven southwardly, they would come
to a land where they would as certainly be de-
voured, as if they were drowned inlhe sea; and
suppose they had attained their own country, the
strangeness of their bloody and fatal attack
would make them tell their people that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man, but by two heavenly
spirits, (meaning Friday and me) who were sent
from above to destroy them: and this he said he
knew, because he heard them say the same to one
another. And indeed he was in the right on it;
for t have heard since that these four men gave
out, that whoever went to that enchanted island,
would be destroyed by fire from the gods.
No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased; instead of
which my former thoughts of a voyage took
place, especially when Friday's father assured
me I should have good usage in his country. As
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen more of
his countrymen and Portuguese, who had been
shipwrecked, made their escape thither; that
though they were in union with the savages, yet
they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries.
When I had asked him about the particulars
of his voyage, he answered that their ship was
bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havannah;
that when the ship was lost only five men pei whod
in the ocean—the rest, having saved themselves
in the boat, were now landed on the main conti-
nent. And what do they intend to do there?
said I. He replied, they had concerted measures
to escape jby building them a vessel, but they
had neither tools nor provisions; so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing, said I, I
should make them a proposal, and invite them
T
hither, would they not carry me prisoner to New
Spain? He answered, 'No: for he knew them
to be such honest men as would scorn to act such
inhuman baseness to their deliverer; that, if I
pleased, he and the old savage would go over to
them, talk with them about it, aud bring mean
answer; that they should all swear fidelity to
me, as their leader, upon the holy sacraments;
and that, for his part, he would not only do the
same, but stand by me to the last drop of his
blood, should there be occasion.'
These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two ovef
for that purpose: but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised an objection which
carried a great deal of weight in it. "You
know, sir, (said he) that, being some time with
you, I cannot but be sensible of your stock of
rice and corn, sutticijnt perhaps for us at pre-
sent, but not lor them, should they come over
presently, and much less to victual a vessel for
an intended voyage. Want might be as great an
occasion for them to disagree and rebel, as the
children of Israel did against God himself, whqa
they wanted bread in the wilderness: and there-
fore my advice is, to wait another harvest, and
in th* meantime cultivate and improve some more
land, whereby we may have plenty of provisions^
in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard I approved of ex-
tremely; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus we all
four went to work upon some more land; and
against seed-time we had got so much cured and
trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow twenty-two
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this time all
in good health, we feared not a hundred Indians,
should they venture to attack us. And while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon some trees
fit to build us a large vessel in case the Spaniards
came over; which being marked, I ordered Fri-
day and his father to cut them down, appointing
the Spaniard, who was now my privy counsellor,
to oversee and direct the work.
I likewise encreased my flocks of goats, by
shooting the wild dams, and bringing home their
kids to my enclosure: nor did I neglect the
grape-season, but cured them as usual, though I
Bsid such a quantity now as would have filled
eighty barrels. And thus all of us being em-
T 2
ployed, they in working, and I in providing for
them, till harvest came, God Almighty blessed
the increase of it so much, that from twenty-two
bushels of barley, we threshed out two hundred
and twenty, and the like quantity of rice, suffi-
cient to victual a ship to carry me and all the
Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus, the principal objection being answered
by a sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my two
ambassadors over to the mainland, with a regal
authority to administer the oath of allegiance
and fidelity, and have an instrument signed under
their hands, though I never asked whether they
had pen, ink, or paper; when, giving each of
them a musket, eight charges of powder and
ball, and provision enough for eight days, they
sailed away with a fair gale, on a day when the
moon was at the full.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head,
but impatient for their return, I laid me down to
sleep one morning, when a strange accident hap-
pened, which was ushered in by my man's com-
ing running to me, and calling aloud, "Master,
master: they are come, they are come!" Upon
which, not dreaming of any danger, out I jumped
from .my bed, put on my clothes, and hurried
through my little prove; when, looking, towards
the sea, I perceived a boat about a league and a
half distant, standing in for the shore, with the
•\Vind fair. I beheld they did not cosne from tte
side Vvhere the land lay on, but from the southern
end of the island: so, these being none of the
people we wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still
till such time as I came down from the mountain,
which with nay ladder I now ascended,,in order
to discover more fully what they were: and now,
wilh the help of my perspective glass, I plainly
perceived an English ship, which I concluded it
to be by the fashion of its long-boat, and which
filled nue with such uncommon transports of joy,
that I cannot tell how to describe-; and yet some
secret doubt* hung about me, proceeding from 1
know not what cause, as though I had reason to
be on my guard. And indeed I would have no
man contemn the secret hints and intimations of
danger, which very often are given when he may
imagine there is no possibility of their being
real; for had I not been warned by this siina
admonition, I had been in a worse situation than
before, and perhaps in vitably ruined.
Not long it was before J perceived the boat to
approach the shoie, as though they looked for a
place where they might conveniently land; and
at last they ran their boat on shore upon the
beach, about half a mile distant, which proved
so much the happier for me; since if they had
come into the creek, they had landed just at my
door, and might not only have forced me out of
my castle, but plundered me of all I had in the
world. Now I was fully convinced they were
all Englishmen, three of whom were unarmed
and bound; when immediately the first four or
five leaped on shore, and took those three out of
the boat as prisoners: one of whom, I could per-
ceive, used the most passionate gestures of en-
treaty, affliction, and despair, while the others,
in a less degree, shewed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very
much astonished; and I beckoned to Friday,
who was below, to ascend the mountain, and
likewise view this sight. "Oh, master, (said be
to me) you see English mans eat prispnexs. as
well as savage mans!" And do yolii think they
will eat them, Friday? said L, "Yes, (said
Friday) they will eat all up," No, no, (said I)
Friday—I am much more concerned lest they
should murder thera ; as for eating them up, that
I aw sure they n^ver will.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in
not having the Spaniard and savage with me, but
also that I could not come within shot of them
unperceived (they having no fire-arms, with them)
and save these three men, whom I thought they
were going to kill with their swords. But some
comfort it was to me that J perceived they were
set at liberty to go where they pleased; but they
sat down all three upon the ground very pen-
sive, and looked like men in despair. This put
me in mind qf the first time when I came on
shore and began to look about me, how I gave
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round
me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how
1 lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing of lie
supply I was to receive by the providenti.il driving
of the ship nearer the land in the storms and tide,
by which I have since been so loug nourished
and supported; so these three poor desolate men
knew nothing how Certain of deliyt ranee and
supply they were, how near it was to them, and
how effectually and re.'dy they were in a coudi-
tjftn of safety, at the same time that they thought
themselves lost and their, case desperate. So,
. little do we see before, us in the world, and sa
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but
that in the worst circumstances they have always
something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay,
are even brought to their deliverance by the
means through which they seem to be brought to
their destruction.
The rascally seamen scattering about, as
though they had, a mind to see the place; and so
long did they negligently ramble, that the tide
had ebbed so low as to leave the boat aground.
Nor were the two men that, were in her more cir-
cumspect, for, having drank a little too much li-
quor, they • fell, fast asleep; but one of them
waking before the other, and perceiving the boat
too fast aground for his strength to move it, he
hallooed out to the rest, who made all possible
expedition to come to him: but, as Providence
ordered it, all their force was ineffectual to launch
her, vhen I could hear them speak to one an-
other, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye; she'll
float next tide." By which words I was fully
convinced they were my countrymen.
All this while I lay' very quiet, as being fuHy
sensible it could be no less than ten hours before
the boat would be afloat, and then it would be
so dark, as that they could not easily perceive
me, by which means I should be at more liberty
to hear their talk and observe all their motions:
not but that I prepared for my defence; yet as I
bad now another sort of enemies to combat with,
I acted with more caution. I took two fusees on
my shoulder, and gave Friday three muskets;
besides, my formidable goat-skin coat and mon-
strous cap, made me look as fierce and terrible
as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols
were stuck in my belt, and my naked sword
kinging by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any at-
tempt till it was dark; but it being now two
o'clock, in the very heat of the day, the sailors
were all straggling into the woods, and undoubt-
edly were lain down to sleep. The three poor
distressed creatures, too anxious to get any repose,
were, .however, seated under the shade of a great
tree, about a quarter of a mile from me, and
before I was perceived I called aloud to them in
Spanish, \Vliat are you, gentlemen'?
At these words they started up in great confu-
sion, and belwlding the strange figure I made,
they returned me no answer, but seeratd as if
they would fly from me. Gentlemen, said I, in
English, don t be afraid: perhaps you have a
-friend nearer you than you expect. "He must
be from heaven; (said one of them gravely, and
pulling off his hat) for we are past all help in
this world." All help is from heaven, said I;
but, sir, as I have perceived every action between
you and those brutes since your landing, only in-
form me how to assist you, and I will do it to the
utmost of my power. ••• •' .1 ,'- '.
"Am I talking with God or man'? (said he, in
tears). Are you of human kind, or an angel!"
Sir, said I, my poor habit may tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you,
having but this servant only: here are arms and
ammunition: tell freely your condition, can we
save you-i f The story (said he) is too long to
relate, since our'butchers are so near. But, sir,
I was master of that ship: my men have mutinied,
and it is a favour they have put my mate, this
passenger, and me, on: shore, without murdering
us, though We expect nothing but to perish here."
Are your enemies gone? said I. "No: (replied
be, pointing to a thicket) there they lie; whjlemy
heart trembles, lest, having seen atid' h.eard u>f,.
they should murder us all." Have they fire-arms?
said I. "They have but two pieces (replied he)
one of which is left in the boat." He also told
me there were two enormous villains among them,
that were the authors of this mutiny, who, it'
they were killed or seized, might induce the rest
to return to obedience. Well, well, (said I) let
us retire farther under the covering of the woods;
and there it was I made these conditions with
them:—
I. That while they staid in the island they
should not pretend to any authority, but be en-
tirely conformable to my orders, and return me
the arms which I should put into their hands.
II. That if the ship were recovered, they
should afford Friday and me our passage gratis
to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire^ I gave each of them a gun, with
powder and ball sufficient, ad vising that we should
fire upon them as they lay. The captain mo-
destly said he was sorry to kill them ; though, on
the other hat;d, to let these villains escape, who
were the authors of his misery, might be the
ruin cf us all, should they bring the ship's com-
gaay upon us. "Well, (said he) do as you think
fit." And accordingly I fired, killing one of the
captain's chiefest enemies, and wounding the
other, who eagerly called for assistance: but the
captain, who had reserved his piece, coming up
to him, " Sirrah, (said he) it is too late to call
for assistance: you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy," So he knocked ,him down
with the stock of his gun. Three others were
also slightly wounded, who at n>y approach cried
out for mercy. This the captain granted, on ton-
'dition that they would swear to be true to him in
recovering the ship, which they solemnly did:
however, I obliged the captain to keep them
bound.
Afterwards I sent Friday and tlw captain's
mate to secure the boat and bring away the oars
and sail; when, at their return, three men com-
, ing back, and seeing their late distressed captain,
'now their conqueror, submitted to be bound
also. And then it was that, having more liberty,
I related the adventures of my whole life, which
be heard with wonderful attention. Next, I ca/-
ried him aad his two men into my little fortified
castle, Chewed them all my conveniences, and
• rciVeshed them wilh such provisions as I could
afford. When tins was over we began to think
about regaining the ship. He said that there
were twenty-six hands on board, who, knowing
their lives were forfeited by the law, for con-
spiracy and mutiny, would grow so very hardened,
that it would be dangerous for our small com-
pany to attack them. This was a reasonable in-
ference indeed; Jwt something we did resolve on,
and immediately put in execution: for we heaved
the boat upon the beach so high, that she could
not shoot oil' at high-water mark, and made a
hole in her not easily to be stopped; and so all
the signals they gave for the boat to come on
board were in vain. This obl'ged them to send
another boat ashore, with ten men armed, whose
faces the captain plainly descried, the boatswain
being the chief officer; but he said there were
three honest lads among them, who \yere forced
into the conspiracy.
Herenpon I gave him fresh courage, (for I had
perceived he was in concern) in the meanwhile
securing our prisoners, part in my castle, over
whom Friday stood centinei; two we took into
our service, and then thought ourselves strong
enough to adventure a battle.
When the sailors lauded, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they uot only hallooed,
but fired for Iheir companions to hear; yet l\\fj
received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their compa-
nions were murdered; then they made as if they
would return- to the ship. I could perceive the
captain's countenance change at this, till three
men were ordered to look after the boat, while
the other seven- leaped on shore, in order to
search for their companions: and indeed they
came to the brew of the hill near my ancient
castle, from whence they could see a great way
into the woods; and there shouting and hallooing
till tired and weary, at length seated themselves
under a spreading tree.
My opinion was, that nothing could be done
till night, when I might use some artifice to get
them out of the boat: but of a sudden they all
started up, and made to the sea-side. Herenpon
I oidered Friday and the captain's mate to go
over the creek into the woods, and halloo as loud
as possible.
This artifice succeeded. The sailors immedi-
ately ran towards the wood, till coming to the
cref k, they called for their boat to carry them
over, and then took another man with them
kito the woods, leaving but two in the'boat.'
'Immediately we surprized the men in the boat;
and ordering thereto surrender on pain of death,
and one of them heing an honest ltd, they threw
down their aims and submitted themselves to our
command.
When the sailors returned from a vain and
long search, and found their boat aground in the
creek, the tide out, and their companions gone,
they ran about, wringing their hands, and crying
out, that it was an enchanted island, aud they
should all be murdered by spirits or devils.
Friday aud the captain crawled towards them
on their hands and knees; aud the' captain,
taking aim at the boatswain, who was the ring-
leader of the mutiny, killed him on the spot
Friday wounded another, aud a third ran away.
I BOW advanced with my whole army, and it
being nearly dark, I ordered the two men we had
surprized in the boat to call to them by their
names, and bid them surrender to the captain and
fifty men, or they would all be killed.
Thrown into the greatest consternation bv the
death of the boatswain, and the fear of being
overpowered by numbers, they threw down their
arms and surrendered.
Having bound our prisoners and secured tbe
02
ahoat, I sent the captain, in the name of the go-
-vernor of the island, to offer them free pardon,
^if they would assist in recovering the ship. To
this they one. and all consented; and agreed
. among themselves, that whoever attempted to
violate the condition should be hanged upon the
beach.
Both boats were now got ready with all possible
expedition, and about midnight the captain, &c.
reached the ship.
Robinson, one of the prisoners, on whom the
captain knew he could rely, was ordered to hail
• the ship, and to say that they had at last found
their comrades.
The crew received them on board, without
any suspicion of the captain being among them i
and in less than half an hour the captain's party
secured every man in the ship, and restored the
government' of the vessel to its lawful com-
mander.
And thus, the ship being completely recovered,
the joyful signal was fired, which-I heard with
the greatest dehght imaginable. Nor was it long
before the grateful csptain brought the ship to an
anchor at the creek's mouth; and hastening ou
shore, he threw himself into my arms, exclaim-.

/e t/istj'ti'- eet/fi,s4/fe. (' <r/t/cM ft.
f~ C!
ing, "My friend—my deliverer! There is your
ship: she is yours, and we are your servants!"
I was so affected with this most unexpected
event, that I swooned in his embraces. Having
recovered, I kneeled down upon the beach to
thank the Almighty Disposer of all things for my
miraculous deliverance. ,
It was useless now to wait for the arrival of
the Spaniards, as it would by no means answer
their purpose to be carried to England. I there-
fore wrote in Spanish an account of all that had
befallen me, and placed it in a conspicuous part
of the tent, within my fortified wall.
I left them my habitation, with all its conve-
niences and utensils; my tools, my flocks of goats,
and all my accumulated stores; and carrying
with me Friday, my parrot, my money, my um-
brella, and goat-skin cap, I bid farewel to the
island, after twenty-eight years, two months,
and nineteen days residence.—We set sail
Dec. 12, 1680, and arrived in England June 11,
1G07.
Here I found my first captain's widow alive;
she had buried a second husband, but in very
mean circumstances, and I made her very
easy on my account. Soon after I went down
u 3
to Yorkshire, where all my family were expired,
except two sisters, and as many of one of my
brother's children. I found no provision had
been made for me, they concluding I had been
long since dead; so that I was'but in a very
slender situation. Indeed the captain did me a
great kindness by his report to the owners, of the
manner in which I had delivered their ship on
the desolate island; on which they made me a *'
present of two hundred pounds. I next went to
Lisbon, taking my man, Friday, with me; and
arriving there in April, I met the Portuguese
captain, who took me on board on the African
coast; but being old, he had left off the sea,
and resigned all his business to his son, who fol-
lowed the Erasil trade. So altered both of us
were, that we did not know each other at first,
till I discovered myself more fully to him. After
a few embraces, I began to enquire of my con-
cerns; and then the old gentleman told me that
it was nine years since he had been at Brazil,
where my partner was then living, but my trus-
tees were both dead; that it was his belief I
should have a good account of the product of
my plantation; that the imagination of my being
lost had obliged my trustees to give an estimate
of my share to the ''rocurator-fiscal, who, in
case of my not returnins, had given one third to
the king, and the res: to the monastery of St. Au-
gustine; but if I pni in my claim, or anyone for
me, it would be ict'irned, except the yearly pro-
duct, which was given to the poor. I then de-
sired him to tell me what improvement he thought
had been made of my plantation, and whether
he imagined it was worth my while to look after
it? Fie answered, that he did not know how
much it was improved; but this he was certain
of, that my partner was grown vastly rich upon
his half of it; and that he had been informed
that the king had two hundred moidores for his
third part. He added, that the survivors of my
trustees were persons of an ingenuous character;
that my partner could witness my title, my name
being registered in the country, by which means,
indisputably, I should recover considerable sums
of money. But, answered I, how could my
trustees dispose of my effects, when I made you
only my heir? This, he said, was true; but
there being no affidavit made of my death, he
could not act as an executor. However, he had
ordered his son, then at Brasil, to act by pro-
curation upon my account; and he had taken
possession of my sugar-house, having accounted
himself for eight years with my partner and
trustees for the profits, of which he would give
me a very good account.
This he performed very faithfully in a few days,
making himself indebted to me 470 moidores of
gold, over and above what had been lost at sea
after I had left the place. And then he recounted
to me what misfortunes he had gone through,
which forced my money out his hands to buy
part in a new ship. "But (said he) you shall
not want: take this, and when my son returns
every farthing shall be paid you." Upon which
he pat into my hand a purse of 150 moidores in
gold, as likewise the instrument containing the
title to the ship hi which his son was, and which
he offered as security for the remainder. But
really when I saw so much goodness, generosity,
tenderness, and real honesty, I had not the heart
to accept it, for fear he should straiten himself on
my account. "It is true (said he) it may be so;
but the money is yours, not mine, and you may
have the greatest occasion for it." However, I
returned fifty of them, promising to give him the
other hundred when I got my effects in my hands,
saying I designed to go myself for that pur-
pose. But he told me he could save me the,
trouble; and so caused me to enter my name
with a public notary, as likewise my affidavit
with a procuration affixed to it; and he advised
me to send it in a letter to one of his acquaint-
ance, a merchant at Brasil; and indeed nothing
could be more faithfully and honourably ob-
served; for in seven months' time I had a very
faithful account of all my eftects, what sums
were raised, what expended, and what remained
for my use: in a word, I found myself worth
5000/. and 1000/. per annum. Nor was this all;
for my partner congratulated me upon my being
alive, telling me how much my plantation was
improved, what negroes were at work, and how
many Ave Marias he had said to the Virgin
Mary for my preservation, desiring me to accept
kindly some presents he had sent me, which
shewed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive but I rewarded
my faithful captain, by returning him the hun-
dred moidores; and not only forgiving him all
he owed me, I allowed him yearly a hundred
more, and fifty to his son, during their lives.
And now being resolved to go to England, I re-
furned letters of thanks to the prior of St. Au/
gustine, and in particular to my old partner, with
very suitable presents. By the captain's advice
I was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and
there take passage for England. When, as it
happened, I got a young English gentleman, a
merchant's son at Lisbon, to accompany me,
together with two English and two Portuguese
gentlemen; so that, with a Portuguese servant,
an English sailor, and my man Friday, there
•were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and
came to Madrid, when, the summer decaying,
we hastened to Navarre, where we were informed
that there was scarcely any passing, by reason of
the prodigious quantity of snow; so that we
were obliged to abide near twenty days at Pam-
peluna, and at last to take a guide to conduct us
safe towards Thoulouse. And now twelve other
gentlemen joining with us, together with their
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away
our guide led us by the frightful mountains, and
through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we
, travelled along, ushered us into the prospect of
the fruitful and charming provinces of Languedoc
and Gascoigne.
But now came on two adventures, both tragical
and comical. First, Our guide was encountered
by three wolves and a bear, which set upon him
and his horse, and wounded him in three places;
upon which my nian, riding up to his assistance,
shot one of them dead, on which the others ran
into the woods. But the pleasante&t adventure
was to see my man attack the bear. This crea-
ture, if let alone, will never meddle with you,
and this my man Friday very well knew; and so
begging leave of me, hi broken English, he told
us he would '•' make good laugh." Why, you
silly fool, said I, he'll cat you up at a mouthful.
"Eatce me up! (replied he) Me ealee him, and
make much good laugh!" Upon which, pulling
off his boots, he claps on his pumps, and run-
ning after the monstrous beast, he called out
that he wanted to speak with him; and then-
throwing stones on purpose to incense him, the
beast turns about in a fury, and with prodigious
strides, shuffles after him. But though he could
not keep pace with Friday, who made up to us,
as it were,-fof help. You blockhead, said I,
immediately take horse, and let us shoot the
creature. But he cried, " Dear master, no
shoot—me make you much laugk!" And so he
turned about, making s:gns to follow, while the
bear ran after him, till coming to a great oak,
he ascended in a minute, leaving his gun at the
bottom of it. Nor did the bear make any diffi-
culty of it, but, notwithstanding his bulk, as-
cended like a cat. You mu>t think I was not a
little amazed at the folly of my man, not per-
ceiving any thing to occasion our laughter, till
we rode up nearer, and beheld the beast mounted
on the oak, on the beginning of the branch to
which Friday clung at the farther end, where the
bear durst not come. Herenpon Friday cried
out, "Now, master, me make much laugh; me
make de bear dance!" Upon which he fell a
shaking the bough, which made the creature look
behind him, to see how he could retreat. Then,
as if the bear had understood his stammering
English, he cried, "Why you not come farther,
Mr. Bear! Pray Mr. Bear, come farther!"
And then, indeed, we all burst into laughter;
especially when we perceived Friday drop, like a
squirrel, upon the ground, leaving the beast to
make tiie best of his way down the tree. And
now, thinking it the most convenient time to kill
him, Friday cried out, "Oh dear, master, no
shoot; me shoot bye and bye!" When, taking
up his gun, he said, "Me not shoot yet—me
luake once more much laugh." And accordingly
he was as good as his word; for the creature
descending backwards from the tree very leisure-
ly, before he could lay one foot to the ground,
Friday shot him through the ear stone-dead; and
looking to see if we were pleased, burst out into
a hearty laugh, saying, "So we kill bear in my
country; not with gun, but much loug arrow."
Thus ended our diversion, to our satisfaction,
especially in a place where the terrible howlings
struck us with continual terror. But the snow
uow growing very deep, particularly on the moun-
tains, the ravenous creatures were obliged to seek
for sustenance in the villages; where, coming by
surprise on the country people, they killed seve-
ral of them, besides a great number of their sheep
and horses.
Our guide told us we Lad yet one more dan-
gerous place to pass; and if there were any more
wolves in the country, there we should finj
them. This was a small plain, encompassed
with woods, Jo get through a long lane, to the
village where we were to. lodge. When we en-
tered the wood the sun was within half an hour
of setting; and a little after it was set v,e caiae
x
into the plain, which was not above two leagues
over; and then we saw five great wolves cross
the road, without taking notice of us, and so
swift as though they were pursuing their prey.
Our guide, believing there were more coming,
desired us to be on our guard. Accordingly,
about a furlong farther we saw a dead horse, and
near a dozen of wolves devouring its carcase. My
aian Friday fain would have fired at them, but I
would not permit him. Nor had we gone more
than half a league farther, when we heard dread-
ful bowlings in a weed on our left, and saw a hun-
dred coming up against us, as though they had
been an experienced army. This obliged us to
form ourselves in the best manner; and then I
ordered that every other man should fire, that
those who did not might be ready for a second
volley, should they advance upon us; and theu
every man to make use of his pistols. But there
was no necessity for this; for the enemy, being
terrified, stopped at the noise of the fire. Four
of them were shct dead, and several others, being
wounded, went bleeding away, as we could very
plainly discover by the snow. And now, remem-
bering wtiat had been often told me, that such
was the majesty of a man's voice, as to strike
terror even into the fiercest creatures, I ordered
all our companions to halloo as loud as possible:
and in this notion I was not altogether mistaken;
for they immediately turned about at the first
halloo, and began to retire; upon which, order-
ing a second volley in their rear, they galloped
into the woods with great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces
again, and then made all the haste we could pn
our way. But we had not rode far before we
were obliged to put ourselves in a posture of de-
fence as before, being alarmed with a very dread-
ful noise, in the same wood, on our left hand, \
the way that we were to pass, only that it was
some distance from us. By this time dark clouds
began to spread over the sky, and the night came '/;.
on apace, which made it so much the more to
our disadvantage; when presently three troops
of wolves, in our front, appeared to our sight,
as though a great number of them had a design
to surround us, and devour us in spite of fate.
As they did not fall upon us immedinlrly, we pro-
ceeded on our journey in the swjftest manner the
roads would permit our horses, which was only
a large trot. It was in this manner.we travelled,
till such time as we discovered another wood,
X2
and had the prospect of its entrance, through
which we were to pass at the farthest side of the
plain. But surely none can express the terror
we were in when, approaching the lane, we per-
ceived a confused number of the fiercest wolves
standing, and, as it were, guarding its entrance.
Nor were we long in this amazement, before an-
other occasion of horror presented itself; for
suddenly we heard the report of a gun at another
opening into the wood; and looking that way,
out ran a horse, bridled and saddled, flying with
the greatest swiftness, and no less than sixteen
or seventeen wolves pursuing him, in order to
devour the poor creature: and unquestionably
they did so, after they had run him down, not
being able to hold out that swiftness by which he
at first escaped them.
When we rode up to that entrance from whence
the iiorse came forth, there lay the carcases of
two men and another horse, mangled and torn
by these devouring wolves: and undoubtedly one
of these .men was the person who fired the gun
which we had heard, for the piece lay by him;
but, alas, most of the upper part of his body
and his head were entombed in the bowels of
these ravenous creatures!

What course to take, whether to proceed or
to retreat, we could not tell; ,but it was not long
before the wolves themselves nnulc us come to a
n-v>l;ilioi!: for such numbers surrounded us,
every one of whom expected their prey, that
were our bodies to be divided among them, there
would not be half a mouthful apiece. But happy,
very huppy it was for us, that but a .little way
from the entrance there lay some .very large
timber-trees, which I supposed had been cut down
and laid there .for sale, .among which I drew
my little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, which served us ,fqr a breast-
work; when, desirng them to alight, we stood
jn a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our
horses in the ceptre, the pnly piatje .where we
could preserve them.
Never certainly was there a ,mo$e furious
charge than what the wolves, jpade upon us in
this place: and the sight of the horses, which
was the principal thing they aimed at, provoked
.their hunger, and added to their natural fierce-
ness. They came on us with a most dreadful
noise, which made the woods ring again; and
beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I or-
dered every other man to fire as before directed;
x 3
and indeed so well did they take their aim, that
they killed several of the wolves at the first vol-
ley ; but still we were obliged to keep a Amtinual
firing, for they came, pushing one another on
with the greatest fury.
Our second volley something abated their
courage, when, stopping a little, we hoped they
would have made the best of their way. How-
ever, it did not prove so; for others made a new
attempt upon us; and though in four firings we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laming
twice as many, yet they came on several times
successively, as though they valued not their lives
for the sake of their prey.
Unwilling was I to spend, our last shot too
suddenly; and therefore called my otlu r servant,
and, giving him a horn of powder, bid him lay
a large train quite along the timber, which he
did, while Friday was charging my fusee and his
own with the greatest dexterity. By this time,
the wolves coming up the timber, I set fire to
the train, by snapping a discharged pistol close
on the powder. This so scorched and terrified
them, that some fell down, and others jumped
in among us with the strength and terror' of the
flames; but these we immediately dispatched,
i ,
when all the rest, frightened with the light,
which the darksome night caused to appear more
dreadful, began at length to retire: upon which,
ordering our last pistols to be fired at once,
giving at the same time a great shout, the wolves
were obliged to have recourse to their swiftness,
and turned tail; and then we' sallied out upon
twenty lame ones, cutting them in pieces with
our swords, which caused them to howl lamenta-
bly, to the terror of their fellow-devourers, who
resigned to us the field as victorious conquerors.
And indeed, I question whether Alexander, king
of Macedon, in any of his conquests, had more
occasion for trinmph than we had; for he was
but attacked by numerous armies of soldiers,
whereas our little army was obliged to combat a
legion of devils, as it were, worse than canni-
bals, who, had they slain us, would have sacri-
ficed us the same moment, to satisfy their vora-
cious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts,
having killed threescore of them, and saved our
Jives from their fury. We still Lad a league to
go farther, when, as we went, our ears werte
saluted with their most unwelcome bowlings, ex-
pecting every moment another attack. But in an
hour's time we arrived safe at the town where we
were to lodge; and here we found the place
strictly guarded, and all in terrible confusion;
as well they might, for fear of the bears and
wolves breaking into the village, in order to prey
upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, the other
being very ill of the wounds which he had re-
ceived, as before mentioned. After we had
reached Thoulouse, we came into a warm, plea-
sant, and fruitful country, not infested with
wolves, nor any sort of ravenous creatures; and
when we told our story there, they blamed our
guide much, for conducting us through the forest
at the foot of the mountains, and in such a se-
vere season too, when the snow obhged them to
seek for shelter in the woods.
I think I have nothing uncommon in my pas-
sage through France to take notice of, since other
travellers of greater learning and ingenuity hav.e
giv.en a mojre ampk account than my pen is able
to set /orth. From Thoulouse I travelled tp
Paris, from thence to Calais, where I to,ok ship-
ping, and landed at Dover the 14,lh of January,
in a very cold.s.easoji.
Thus come to the end of my trawls,, I soon
discovered my new-found estate, and all the bills
of exchange I had brought were currently paid.
The good ancient widow, my only privy coun-
sellor, thought no pains or care too great to pro-
cure my advantage; nor had I ever occasion to
blame her fidelity, which drew from me an ample
reward. I was for leaving my effects in her
hands, intending to set out for Lisbon, and so
to the Brasils; but as in the desolate island I
had some doubts about the Romish religion, so
I knew there was but little encouragement to
settle there, unless I would apostatise from the
orthodox faith, or live in continual fear of the
Inquisition. Upon this account I resolved to sell
my plantation: and for that intent I wrote to my
old frknd at Lisbon, who returned me an answer
to my great satisfaction; which was, that he
could readily sell it there: however, if I thought
it convenient to give him liberty to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my
trustees, residing at the Brasils, who conse-
quently understood its intrinsic value, having
lived just upon the spot, and who, I was sensible,
Here very rich, and therefore might be the more
willing to purchase it; he did not in the least
doubt but I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of
eight more of it, than I should do if I disposed
of it in any other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with
this kind and ingenuous proposal; and immedi-
ately I sent him an order to offer it unto them,
which he accordingly did; so that about eight
months after, the ship being in that time returned,
he gave me a satisfactory account, that they not
only willingly accepted the offer, but that they
had also remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of
eight to a correspondent of their own at Lisbon,
iti order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument
of sale, according to form, which they had sent
from Lisbon, and returned it again to niy old
friend, he having sent me, for my estate, bills of
twenty-eight thousand three hundred pieces of
eight, reserving the payment of one hundred
moidores per annum, which I had allowed him
during life, as also fifty to his sou during life, ac-
cording to my faithful promise, which the planta-
tion was to make good as a rent charge.
Any one would think, that, in this state of
complicated good fortune, I was past running
any more hazards; aod so indeed I had been,
if other circumstances had not concurred; but I
was inured to a wandering life, had no family,
not many relations, nor, however rich, had I
contracted many acquaintance; and though I
had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet I could not
keep the country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be on the wing again; especially,
1 could not resist the strong inclination I had to
see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there, and how the rogues I had
left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded
me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that
for almost seven years she prevented my running
abroad; during which time I took my two ne-
phews, the children of one of my brothers, into
my eare. The eldest, having something of his
own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a
settlement of some addition to his estate after
my decease. The other I put out to a captain
of a ship; and, after five years, finding him a
sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put
him into a good ship, and sent him to sea. Ju
the meantime, I in part settled myself here.
For firs!; of all I married, and that not either
to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had
three children, two sons and one daughter: bat
iny wife dying, and my nephew coming home'
'with good success from a voyage to Spain, my
inclination to go abroad, and his importunity,
prevailed and engaged me to go in his ship, as
a private trader, to the East Indies. This was
in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in
the island, saw my successors the Spaniards,
had the whole story of their lives, and of the
villains I had left there; how at first they in-
sulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated; and how
at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence
with them; ho'.v they were subjected to the
Spaniards; ho\v honestly the Spaniards used
them. A history, if it were entered into, as
full of variety and wonderful incidents as my
own, particularly as to their repeated battles
with the Carribeans, who landed several times
upon the island; and as to the improvement
they made upon the island itself; and how five
of them made an attempt upon the mainland,
and brought away eleven men and five women,
prisoners, by which at my coming I found about
twenty young children in the island. Here 1
stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms,
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen,
which I brought from England with me, viz. a
carpenter and a smith. Besides this, I shared
the island into parts wilh them, reserving to my-
self the property of the whole, but gave them
such parts respectively as they agreed on; and
having settled. all things with them, and en-
gaged them not to leave the place, I left them
there.
From thence I touched at the Brasils, from
whence I sent a bark, which I bought there, •
with more people to the island; As to the Eng-
lishmen, I promised to send them from England
a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply
themselves to planting, which I afteiwards per-
formed. And the fellows proved very honest
and diligent after they were mastered, and had
their properties set apart for them.
I gent them also from the Brasils five cows,
three of them being with calf, some sheep, and
some hogs, which, when I came again, were
considerably encreased. When they had all
these things, three hundred Carribees came and
invaded them,. and ruined their planU/ions..
They fought with that number twice, and were
Y
at first defeated, and three of them killed; but
at last a storm destroying their enemies' canoes,
they famished or destroyed almost all the rest,
and renewed and recovered the possession of their
plantation, and still lived upon the island.
THE ENt>,
K. Blackader, Prmter,
To6k's Court, Chancery Lane, London.
page
Xnry shooting the lmn 10
lRrl-inson shipwrecked £6
— returnmg loaded from the wreck ... 35
», cciiiteiupiiumi; the ocean 42
. ...-.,— taking t on i the kid 46
. making his boat .;,..... .117
The punt of the toot in the sand 139
The old goat in the grotto 149
The drowned sailor 158
Friday's submission , • 171
Fridays manner of reckoning 177
Robinson reU asin« the Spaniard 196
1'he En^ilish captam and his company surprised at> -.,
the appearance of Robmson Cnifoe and Friday J
Interview wilh the captain 220
Friday shooting the bear 229
Attack of the yyolvcs ........... 238
Published ly C. Cradock and W. Joy, 32,
Paternoster-Row.
1. The SECOND EDITION, with numerous Cuts, enlarged
and much improved, price fid. sewed.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH PRIMER, for Chil-
dren of ail early Age; intended to precede the NEW
BRITISH SPELLING BOOK, and oiher similar Heading
Books.
2. The EIGHTH EDITION, on fine paper, corrected
and much improved in the arrangement, witii^Onew Cuts
added, price Is (id. bound.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH SPELLING BOOK,
or an Introduction to Spelling and Reading, in Seven
Parts, containing a great variety of easy Lessons exactly
adapted to the capacities of Youth, and arranged in a
new, easy, and pleasing order; the Tables of Worcis are
divided and accented according to the purest modes of
pronunciation.
"We have compared this Spelling Book wife Mayor's,
and several other generally esteemed first books for chil-
dren, and h'nd it in almost every particular more simple,
.more congenial with the language and powers of the
young mind, and better adapted for instruction, than any
other work of its kind. The spelling and reading lessons
are placed on. opposite pages, and the selection of the
latter is such as must naturally expand the nii.id and im-
prove the morals of children."—Antijofottin Remiw.
3, On fine paper, and handsomely printed, price 4s.
• • neatly bound.
GUY'S NEW BRITISH READER; OR SE-
QUEL to his NEW BRITISH SPELLING BOOK, contain-
ing a great variety of easy Lessons, selected from the
most approved Authors, exhibiting a very easy gradation,
and adapted to the junior classes of Ladies' and Gentle-
nien's Schools; AND, WHAT WILL BE DEEMED A MOST
ESSEMTIAL IMPROVEMENT, THE MORE DIFFICULT
WORDS ARE DIVIDED AND EXPLAINED AT THE
HEAD OF EACH CHAPTER.
"This is one of the easiest and most useful guides to
reading that we have seen; and the gradation from plain
and familiar to the higher orders of competition is ver^
judiciously contrived and executed : an agreeable TOT
liety, both in prose and verse, is also introduced, as are
somV ir;ieresring tales. The l>i>< k is remarkably well
printed, ami of a very moderate price."—British Critic,
July, 1811.
4. Just published, the THIRD EDITION, enlarged,
very considesably improved, and handsomely printed,
price Is. 6d. bound in red.
GUY'S ENGLISH SCHOOL GRAMMAR;
in which Practical Illustration is, in every step, blended
with Theory, by Rules, Examples, and Exercises':
adapted throughout to the Use of Schools and Private
Ifeachere.
In this work English Grammar is rendered easy to the
capacity of every learner, not only by giving a concise
outline of its general principle-,, but by combining theory
with practice, by adapting Questions and Exercises in a
well digested Order, to each Rule, by concentrating
every thing essential, and bringing it at once to the test
of Practice. "By it children will not be engaged so
long as they now are, with so much labour of the me-
moir, and so little assistance of the understanding."
Dr. Lowth.
5. SECOND EDITION, enlarged and much improved.
Royal I8mo. with Seven handsome Maps, price 3s.
bound in red.
GUY'S SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY, on anew,
easy, and highly approved plan; comprising not only n
complete general Description, but much Topographical
Information, in a well digested Order; exhibitmg three
distinct Parts, and yet forming one connected Whple.
Expressly adapted' to every Age and Capacity, and to
every Class of Learners, both in Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Schools.
"We think this work.entitlrd to unqualified approba-
tion. It unites utility with cheapness. Its method is
simple and practicable, and well adapted to the first
wants of the mmd. Mr. Guy is already known as the
author of some other works of a similar nature, and this
will add to his merit in that species of composition."—
Universal Msgazme, April, 1810.
*„* The Maps <m a handsome royal drawing paper, neatly
coloured, are sold separate for the convenience of Teachers,
price 2s. sewed.
6. SIXTH EDITION, on fiue paper, handsomely printed,
with near two hundred nsw articles added, and the
whole carefully corrected, and much improved; price7s-
board?, or 7s. 6d. neatly bound.
GUY'S POCKET CYCLOPAEDIA; or, Mis-
cellany of USEFUL KNOWLEDGE, from the latest and best
Authorities, designed for senior Scholars in Schools, and
for young Persons m general; containing much nsefu' in-
t formation on vaiiom subjects necessary to be known by
all persons, and yet not to be found in books of general
use m Schools. Ky JOSEPH GUY, late Pipfcssar of Geo-
graphy, &c. Royal Mihtary College. Great Marlow.
"lu company, to discover gross ignorance of things be-
coming one's station in life to know, is imnpportably
mortifymg and degrading."—Anon.
Six Editions of this most useful Work haVe been called
forby tlie Public, in this Edition tiie Arts are brought
down to the present ti:ne, new discoveries intieduced,
near 200 new articles added, and ihe whole re-written
and made familiar to the youthful capacity.
7. GUY'S CHART OF GENERAL HIS-
TORY, Ancient and Modern <>n a large sheet of Im-
perial drawing paper, the SECOND EDITION, corrected,
price 7s. coloured; on canvas and rollers, 10s. 6d.; and
varmshed, price 14s.
A Chart of this kmd will greatly facilitate the student's
progress, and give linn cleaver ideas of the rise, duration,
and fall of each kingdom and empire, than the perusal of
. many volumes. It is, in short, to History, what Maps
are to Geography. It is a mode of representation vuiich
gives a kind of locality to events; and conveys not only
distinct ideas of distant events in any one country, but
the relative occurrences of different nations.
8. GUY'S SCHOOL CIPHERING BOOK
for Beginners; containing a complete Set of Sums in the
first four Rules in Arithmetic, printed in large Figures,
the copy-book,size, having all theSmnsset, and all the
Lines ruled: on excellent willing paper, SECOND EDI-
TION, price 3s. 6d. 4to. half bound.
Also, a Key to the above Sums, price 6d.
This work will be equally acceptable 10 Ladies' and
Gentlemen's Schools, and private Families. It com-
prises every thing • ,,^'iitml m the abure Rules, ai-i! will
fave Teachers ranch,needle«9 trouble, both in setting and,
correcting such Sums.
9. In Royal 4to. price 18s. neatly half bound; or full
coloured, 11. is.
-OSTELL'S NEW GENERAL ATLAS; con-
taining distinct Maps of all Hie principal States and
Kingdoms throughout the world, from the latest and best
Authorities, including a Map of Ancient Greece, and of
the Roman Empire: the whole correctly engraved up.>;
30 plates, royal quarto, and beautifully coloured outlines.
10. The FOURTH EDITION, just published, with consi-
derable Additions and Improvements, price 7s. Cd.
12rno. neatly half bound.
AN INTRODUCTION TO GEOGRAPHY
AND ASTRONOMY, by the Use of Globes and Maps; .
to whi<* arc added, the Construction of Maps, and a
Table of Latitudes and Longitudes. By E. and J. BHCCB,
of,N eiveastie-npon-Ty rie.
in lift* edition, the population of towns in Great Bri-
ta!n \f taken from the Population Ketnrns made in 1811,
and laid before the last Session of Parliament.
11. Now firit published, prk'e 2s. 6d. sewed.
A KEY TO ERUCE'S GEOGRAPHY, con-
tainins Answers to all the Problems in the Geography.
By JOHN BKOCE.
12. Just published, Hit 5th Edition, corrected and much
improved, with a Geographical Frontispiece, price is.
found.
A SYSTEM OF ANCIENT AND MODERN
GEOGRAPHY, with'a scries of Geographical Examinu-
t'sns, F.y JOHN HOLLAND of Manchester, author of
many viluab'e elementary books.
13. The r ioiKrii'''DiTiON,piicc 1 s.in coloured paper,
'I HE CATECHISM OF NATURE;; for the
l'«e of Childirr,. IVy Dr. M.4K1 INEF, Professor of Phi-
ln«onl'y at Zntphen. Transslated from the Dutcb, by the
Kiv. Jon !!AI L, of the Eng-,.-h Church at Koilerdam.
"Mead nature, nature is a fiieud
\

