 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
?
MW
~ _,
T
Q
 
 
JY
“M
l_
_‘
__j
2 
? V _ kf
‘iii;
 
 
2; ¢g%$Qh%M“g%&%)g‘§%~ ’
é 5“ %%Wf%%‘~py £§%$~ 3&3’- lg:
 
 
 
 
 
V
2? *m1r'-m~-wad‘ M 3”‘¢w~
8»
WW
W W
3? w
 
WW
A
"U
‘W W
IV
W
4”
0 I
 
Mm“ Mel/>”'
H
~
aw»
M?
Q}
WW
W
7 ‘
\, ';m~
A}
 
 
 
 
, Alli
 
 
M%;§%M’%WWI¢é¢*¢%’/ 4%: ’ ,/Ii}? > /' 4
M001/mL,(f/4f?’/V}!74?{’V*’y//”‘l7‘;i,fJ§"'1
Mztm A;.;“X2‘%k*W'Jn%v u W1‘ imam
i‘*‘i;
/ /’/ /TU‘
 
FW/wzwm, Q 1szrw7’/
/»
7944//',
mum, mmr,
M M”xrw"§m,1!*3 mamwanwmuam awmmmm
THE LIFE
AND
SURPRISING AI)VENTURES
01'
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
QM York. marinrr,
WHO, FOR UPWARDS OI’ TWEN'I'Y-EIGIIT YEARS,
LIVED ON AN
UNINHABITED ISLAND
ON THE COAST OI’ AMERICA,
mun ‘rm: nnvrn or ‘rm: onur mvzn ORONOOKO.
-QQQQ»
warn
AN ACCOUNT OF HIS DELIVERANCE THENCE,
Arm ms
FURTHER ADVENTURES
as amcnzmw ram: ms szarmzn voxnmn T0 ‘mt 1sLANn-
-»QQQ-
A NEW EDITION.
-»OG6--
iL®NEQBN :
NUKIID AND I01-D BY
nz-me man axunnn, mnzwuannnasraznr.
...... Q "
1822.
/"!,;:_
1“ , X » -
‘ , r P 1»
r,{7,.,f~< A, ,:;,{Lif,J__,)/
1+ !">~32f‘"/fg,(,/
=
lR<U>Bl[NS‘ON KCRUSQEO
*-<9*tOt%-'
I was born at York, in the year 1632, of a
respectable family. My father was a native of
Bremen, who, by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune. He
married my mother at York, who received her
rst breath in that county; and as her maiden
name was Robinson, I was called Robinson
Kreutzizaer; which not heing easily pronounced
in the English tongue, we are commonly known
by the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three hrothers. The
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart’s
regiment, hut slain by the Spaniards: what be-
came of the other, l could never learn.
No charge or pains were wanting in my edu-
cation.--M y father designed me for the law; yet
nothing would serve me hut I must go to sea,
hoth against the will of my father, the tears of
my mother, and the entreaties of friends. One
morning my father expostulated very warmly
with me: “ What reason,” says he, “ have you
to leave your native country, where there must
he a more certain prospect of content and hap-
piness, to enter into a wandering condition of
uneasiness and uncertainty? He recommended
4 ROBINSON cnuson. s
to me Agar’s wish, “Neither to desire poverty
nor riches :” that a middle state of life was the
most happy, and that the high towering thoughts
of raising our condition by wandering abroad,
were surrounded with misery and danger, and
often ended with confusion and disappointment.
I entreat you, nay, I command you, (says he)
to desist from these intentions. Consider your
elder brother, who laid down his life for his
honor, or rather lost it for his disobedience to
my will. If you will go (added he) my pray-
ers shall however be offered for your preserva-
tion; but a time may come, when desolate, op-
pressed, or forsaken, you may wish you had
taken your poor despised father’s counsel.” He
pronounced these words with such a moving
and paternal eloquence, while oods of tearsran
down his aged cheeks, that it seemed to stem
the torrent of my resolutions. But this soon
wore off, and a little alter I informed my mother,
that I could not settle to any business, my re-
solutions were so strong to see the world; and
begged she would gain my father’s consent only
to go one voyage. But my desire was as vain
as my folly in asking. My mother passionately
expressed her dislike of this proposal, telling
me, “ That as she saw I was bent upon my own
destruction, contrary to their will and my duty,
she would say no more, but leave me to my
own headstrong will.” i
I was then, I think, nineteen years old;
when one time being at Hull, I met a school-
fellow of mi going along with his father, who
e
was master (rd a ship, to London ; and acquaint-
ing him with my wandering desires, he assured
nonnvson causes. 6
me of a free passage, and a plentiful share of
what was necessary. Thus, without imploring
a blessing, or taking farewell, of my parents, l
took shipping on the rst of September, 1661.
We set sail soon after, and our ship ‘had scarce
lll/lll Humber, when there arose so violent. a
storm, that - being extremely sea-sick, I con-
cluded the judgment of God deservedly followed
me for my disobedience to my dear parents. It
was then I called to inind the good advice of my
father; and I rmly resolved, if it pleased God
to set me on dry land once more, I would return
to my parents, imp'lore their forgiveness, and
hid a final adieu to my wandering inclinations.)
Such were my thoughts while the storm con-
tinuetl; hut these good resolutions decreased
with the danger; *hdwev'er, I was soon in a
worse situation than before. For on the eighth
day there arose a brisk gale of wind. which
prevented our tiding it up the river; and still in~
creasing, our ship rode forecastle in, and shipped
several large seas.
It was not long before horror seized the sea-
men themselves, and I heard the master express
this melancholy ejaculation, “ Lord, have mercy
upon us, we shall he all lost and undone l’? For
my part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin, till
the universal and terribly dreadful apprehen-
sions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck; and there ‘I was ariglited ‘indeed. The
sea went mountains high ;_ and I could see no-
thing but distress around us; two ships had
out their masts on board, and another had foun-
dered; two more that had lost their anchors,
were forced out to the mercy of the ocean: and
B 3 »
6 aonmsou causes.
1- _. ,._
to save our lives we were forced to cut our fore-
mast and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of
my dreadful condition? I was but a fresh-water
sailor, and therefore it seemed more terrible.
Ourship was very good, but overloaded; which
made the sailors often cry out, “ She would
founder!” words I then was ignorant of. All
this while the storm continuing, and rather
increasing, the master and most sober part of
his men went to prayers, expecting death every
moment. In the middle of the .night one cried
out, “We had sprung a leak ;” another, “That.
there were four feet water in the hold.” I was
just ready to expire with fear, when immediately
all hands were called to the pump; and the
men forced me also ‘in that extremity to share
with them in their labour. While thus em-
ployed, the master espyiug some light colliers,
red a gun as a signal of distress; and I, not
understanding what it meant, and thinking that
either the ship broke, or some dreadful thing
happened, fell into a swoon; and it was a great
while before I recovered.
‘_ Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal
given, they ventured out their boats to save our
lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our ship’s side, and our men cast them
a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, which
after great labour they got hold of, and we haul-
ing them up to us, got into their boat, and left
our ship, which sunk within less than a quar-
ter of an hour after we had quitted her; and
I thus learned what was meant by foundering at
sea. And now the men incessantly labored to
recover their own ship; but the sea ran 80
high, and the wind blew so hard, that they
thought it convenient to hale within shore;
which, with great. diiculty and danger, at last
we happily effected, landing at a place called
Cromer, not far from Winterton light-house;
from whence we all walked to Yarmouth, where,
as objects of pity, many good people ftll‘t\l8l19d
us with necessaries to carry us either to Hull or
London.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days, I
met my old companion, who had given me the
invitation to go on board, along withhis father.
His behaviour and speech were altered, and, in
a melancholy manner, he asked me how I did,
telling his father who I was, and how I had
made this voyage only for a trial. Upon which
the old gentleman turning to me gravely, said,
" Young man, you ought never to go to sea
any more, but to take this for a certain sign that
you never will prosper in a sea-faring condition ;
you have made this voyage for a trial; you see
what ill success Heaven has set before your
eyes; and perhaps our miseries have been on
your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarslzisli.
But pray, what are you, and on what account
did you go to sea?” Upon which I very freely
declared my whole story: at the end of which
he made this exclamation: “ Ye sacred powers!
what had I committed, that such a wretch
should enter into my ship, to heap upon me such
afdeluge of miseries l” But soon recollectiiig
himself, “Young man,” said he, “if you do
not go back, depend upon it, wherever you go,
yoil will meet with disasters and disappoint-
ments till your father’s words are fullled upon
you.” And so we parted.
I thought at rst to return home; but shame
opposed that good motion, as thinking I should
be laughed at by my neighbours and acquaint-
ance. So strange is the nature of youth, who are
not ashamed to sin, but yet ashamed to repent.
In short, I travelled up to London, resolving
upon a voyage; and avoyage I soon heard of,
by getting acquainted with a captain who took a
fancy to me, to go to the coast of Guinea.
Having some money, and appearing like a gen-
tleman, the commander agreed I should go that
voyage with him without any expense; that I
should be his messmate and companion, and I
was very welcome to carry any thing with me,
and make the best merchandise I could.
I blessed my happy fortune, and acquainting
my friends in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent
me, the greatest part of which my dear father
and mother contributed to, with which I bought
toys and trilles, as the captain directed me. My
captain also taught me navigation, how to keep
an account of the ship’s course, take an obser-
vation, and led me into the knowledge of seve-
ral useful branches of the mathematics. And
indeed this voyage made me both a sailor and a
merchant; for I brought home ve pounds nine
ounces of gold-dust for my adventure, which
produced, at my return to London, almost three
hundred pounds.
_ But alas! my dear friend, the captain, soon
departed this life after his arrival. This was B
sensible grief to me: yet I resolved to go anv-
ther voyage with his mate, who had now got
coniinapd of thef shtilp. '{\ll§SdP50V€:l a very up-
success u one- or ioug i no carry qui e
a hundred podnds of my late acquired wealth,
(so that I had two hundred pounds left, which I
reposcd with the captain’s widow, who was an
honest gentlewoinan) yet my misfortunes in this
unhappy voyage were very great. For our
ship sailing towards the Canary islands, we were
chased by a Salee rover; and in spite of all the
haste we could make, by crowding as much can-
vass as our yards could spread, or our masts
carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that we
prepared ourselves to ght. They had eighteen
guns, and we had but twelve. About three in
the afternoon there was a desperate engagement,
wherein many were killed and wounded on both
sides; but nding ourselves overpowered with
numbers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too
ivllgpéltpgirtntg pave thedleast hplpes of giiccless, we
_ _.o surre_n er; an aecor mg y were
pxllciarried prinetrls iigo the port of Salee. Our
were sen o e m eror’ t t b 14
them; but the pirate calptain stdkiliig iiotiaczoof
me, kept me to his own slave.
lnigintlgs condition, I thought myself the most
of my fstggigllsleorgfleearlthanzind the5]r0Pb§fY
s o m ,
Some hopes indeed I had that inyynewoplagtrofi
would go to sea again, where he might be taken
by 11 Spanish or Portuguese man of war and
then I should be set at liberty. But in {his 1
:3: l"}l$lal*°"3 for he never took me with him,
d the t nie to look after his little garden, and
0 1. drudgery of his house, and when he re-
10 aonmson cavsoa.
turned from sea, would make me lie in the
cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to, which
were continually meditating" my escape; and for
two years l could see nothing practicable, but
only pleased myself with the imagination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I
found, did not tit out his ship as usual; and
then he used constantly, once or twice a week,
if the weather was fair, to go out a-shing,
taking me and a young Moresco boy to row the
-boat; and so much pleased was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the sh, that he would
often send me with a Moor, who was one of his
kinsmen, and the Moresco youth, to catch a
dish of sh for him.
Soon after this, my master ordered a carpen-
ter to build a little state room, or cabin, in the
middle of the long-boat, with a place behind it
to steer and hale home the main sheet, with
‘other conveniences to keep in from the weather,
as also lockers to put in all manner of provi-
sions, with a handsome shoulder-of-mutton-sail,
gihing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us out a-shing;
and one time inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, made provision ex-
traordinary, providing also three fusees, with
powder and shot, that they might have some
sport at fowling along the sea-coast. The next
morning the boat was made clean, her ancient
and pendants out, and every thing ready; but
their minds altering, my master ordered us to
go=a-shing, for that his guests would certainly
sup with him that night. ‘
ROBINSON eiwsoia. ll
And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this I persuaded the Moor
to get some provisions on board, as not daring
to meddle with our patroii’s; and to procure
some powder and shot, pretending to kill sea
curlews, which he innocently and readily agreed
to. In short, being provided with all things
necessary, away we sailed.
When we had passed the castle, we fell a-sli-
ing; but though I knew there was a bite, I dis-
sembled the matter, in order to put out further
to sea. Accordingly we ran a league furtlier;
when giving the boy the helm, and pretending
to stoop for something, I seized Muley by sur-
prise, and threw» him overboard. As lie. was an
excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and made to-
wards the boat; upon which I took out a fusce
and; presented it at him: “ Muley,” said I, “ I
never yet designed to do you any harm, and
seek nothing now but my freedom. I know you
are able enough to swim to shore, and save your
life; but if you are resolved to follow me, to
the endangering of mine, the very moment you
proceed, I will shoot you through the bead.”
The harmless creature at these words, turned
himself, from me, and I make nodoubt, got safe
to land. Then. turning to the boy Xury, I per-
ceived he trembled at the action; but I put him
out of all fear, telling him, that if he would; be
trure and faithful to me, I would do well by him.
So innocent did the childthen look, and with
such an obliging smile consented, that I readily
believed him.
We then pursued our voyage; and kept to the
southward: to the ti:-uly: barbarian coast; but in
the dusk of the evening, I changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
a fresh gale of wind, with a pleasant smooth
sea, by three o'clock next day I‘ was one hun-
dred and fty miles beyond the Emperor of
Morocco’s dominions. I continued sailing for
ve days successively, till such time as the wind
shifting to the southward, made me conclude,
that if any vessel was in chase of me, they would
proceed no farther.
After so much fatigue and thought, I an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what or where; neither did I then see any
people. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about dusk to swim
ashore. But no sooner did the gloomy clouds
of night begin to succeed the declining day,
when we heard such barking, roaring, and
howling of wild creatures, that one might have
thought the very worst monsters of nature had
their residence there. Poor Xury, almost dead
with fear, entreated me not to go on shore that
night. The concern the boy expressed for me
pleased me entirely; and to add to his cheerful-
ness, I gave him a dram out of the bottle: but we
could get but little sleep all the night for those
terrible howlings they made; and, indeed, we
were both much affrighted.
The next morning I was resolved to go on
shore to get fresh water, and venture my life
among the beasts or savages, should either
attack me. Xury wishing to go with me, we
each took a-piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a.
dram. We waded a shore, carrying nothing with
us but our arms, and two jars for water. Idid
»em€.;u*$W
b
not go out of sight of the boat, as dreading
the savages coming down‘ the river in their
canoes; but the boy seeing a low descent or
vale about a mile up the country, he wandered
to it: and then running back to me with great
precipitation, I thought he was pursued by
seine savage or wild beast; upon which I ap-
proached, resolving to protect him from danger.
As he came nearer to me, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a crea-
ture he had shot, like a hare, but different in
color, and longer legs; however we were glad of
it, for it proved wholesome and nourishing
meat: but what added to our joy was, my boy
assured me there was plenty of water, and that
he see no wild mans. ~
The place I was now in was no doubt that
wild country, inhabited only by a few, that lays
between the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions
and the Negroes. It is lled with wild beasts,
and the Moors’ use it chiey for hunting.
From this place I thought I saw the top of the
mountain Tenerilfe in the Canaries; which
made me try twice to attain it; but as often
was I drove back, and so forced to pursue my
fortune along shore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, but pretty high;
and the tide beginning to ow, we lay ready to
go further in. But Xury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land, lest
we should be devoured. “ For look yonder,
master,” said he, “ and see de.dreadful monster
last asleep on de side of dc hill,”--Aeoord-
c
~
ingly looking where he pointed, I espied a ter-
rible great lion lay, covered as it were by a
shade of a piece ofithe hill. “ Xury,” said l,
“ you shall go on shore and kill him.” But
the boy looked amazed: “ Me kill him!” says
he, “ he eat me at one mouthful!” Upon which
I bid him lie still, and charging my biggest
gun with two slugs, and a good charge of pow-
der, Itook the best aim I could to shoot him
through the head, but his leg lying over his nose,
the slug broke his knee-bone. The lion awak-
ing with the pain, got up, but soon fell down,
giving the most hideous groan I ever heard:
but taking my secondpiece, I shot him through
the head, and then he lay struggling for life.
Upon this Xury took heart, and desired my
leave to go on shore with my hatchet, to cut
off the head of his enemy; but not having
strength to perform it, he cut off and brought
me afoot. I bethought me, however, that his
skin would be of use. This work cost Xury and
me a whole day; when spreading it on the top
of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun effectu-
ally dried it in two days time, and it afterwards
served me for a bed to lie on.
And now we sailed southerly, living sparingly
on our provisions, and went no oftener on shore
than we were obliged for fresh water, in hopes
to meet some European ship. If Providence
did not so favor me, my next course was to
seek for the islands, or lose my life among the
negroes. And, in a word, I put my whole stress
upon this, “ Either that I must meet with some
shig, or certainly perish.”
QB day as we were sailing along, We 5°.-W
l
\
1
I
l
l
l
€
5
W... J44-,<Hs=-;~=-s,-<
r
i
nonmson cnusoa. 15
people stand on the shore looking at us; we
coud also perceive they were hlack and stark
naked. I was inclined to go on shore; accord-
ingly, I approached nearer, and found they run
along the shore by me n good way. They had
I10 weapons in their hands, except one, which
Xury told me was a lance, with which they
could kill at a great distance. I talked to them
by signs, and made them sensible I wanted
something to eat; they beckoned me to stop
my boat, while two of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of (inll
esh, and some corn, which we kindly accepted;
and to prevent any fears on either side, they
brought the food to the shore, laid it d0WIb U18"
went and stood a great way off till we fetched
it on hoard, and then came close to us again.
But while "we were returning thanks to them,
two mighty creatures came from the mountains;
one as it were pursuing the other with great
fury, which we were the rather inclined to he-
lieve, as they seldom appear but in the night;
and both these swiftly passing by the negrom,
jumped into the sea, wantonly swimming about,
as tiough the diversion of the waters had put
a stop to their iiereeness. At last one of them
coming nearer to m ' boat than I desired, I shot
him directly througli the head ; upon which he
sunk immediately, yet rising again, would have
willingly made to the shore; but between the
woimd and the strangling of the water, he died
lrlr he could reach it.
ltis impossible to express the consternation
of the poor negroes at the ring of my gun;
much less can I mention their surprise, when
they perceived the creature to be slain by it. I
made signs to them to draw near it with a rope,
and then gave it them to haul on shore. It was
a beautiful leopard, which made me desire its
skin: and the negroes seeming to covet the
carcass,I freely gave it to them. As for the
other leopard, it made to shore, and ran with
prodigious swiftness out of sight. The negroes
having kindly furnished me with water, and with
what roots and grain their country afforded, I
took my leave, and, after eleven days sail, came
in sight of the Cape de Verde. But the great
distance I was from it, and fearing contrary
winds would prevent my reaching it, I began
to grow melancholy and dejected, when, upon
asudden, Xury cried out, “ Master! Master!
a ship with a sail!” and looked as affrighted as
if it was his master’s ship sent in search of us.
But I soon discovered she was a Portuguese
ship. Upon which I strove for life to come up
to them. But vain had it been, if through their
perspective glasses they had not perceived me,
and shortened their sail to let me come up,
Encouraged at this, I red a gun, as a signal
of distress; upon which they very kindly lay
to, so that in three hours’ time I came up with
them, and then Itold theml was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at Salee;
upon which they took me very kindly on board,
with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy
I "felt at this happy deliverance! who from being
a late miserable and forlorn creature, was not
only relieved, but in favor with the master of
t
2
the ship, to whom, in return for my deliverenee,
I offered alll had. “ God forbid,” said he,
“ that I should take any thing from you. If
I have saved your life, it is no more than I
should expect to receive myself from any other,
when in the same circumstances Ishould hap-
pen to meet the like deliverance.--Those effects
you have will support you here, and provide
you a passage home again.” And, indeed, he
acted with the strictest justice in what he did,
taking my things into his possession, and giv-
ing me an exact inventory. He bought my
boat of me for the ship’s use, giving me a note
of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brazil.
He also gave me sixty pieces for my boy Xury.
It was with great reluctance I was prevailed
upon to art with the child, who had served
me so faitlifully; but the boy was willing him-
self; and it was agreed, that after ten years he
should be made free, upon his renouneing Ma-
hometanism, and embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we
arrived in All Saints’ Bay, in twenty-two days
after. And here l cannot forget the generous
treatment of the captain. He would take no-
thing for my passage, gave me twenty dueats
for the leopard’s skin, and thirty for the lion’s.
Every thing he caused to be delivered, and what
I would sell he bought. In short I made about
two hundred and twenty pieces of my cargo;
and with this stock I entered once more, as I
may say, into the scene of life; and resolved
therewith to settle at Brazil, purchase a plan-
tation. .
, To be brief, I bought a settlement next door
c 3
to an honest and kind neighbour, born at Lis-
hou, of English parents, whose plantation join-
ing to mine, we improved it very amicably to-
gether. Both our stocks were low, and for two
years we planted only for food: but the third
year we planted some tobacco, and each of us
dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing year
for planting canes.
I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me up departed from the Bra-
zils. One day Iwent to him, and told him
what stock I had in London, desiring his assist-
ance in getting it remitted; to which the good
gentleman readily consented, but would only
have me send for half my money, lest it should
miscarry: and so taking letters of procuration
of me, bid me trouble myself no farther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness to-
wards me; for he not only procured the money
from my captain’s widow, but sent me overa
servant with a cargo proportionable to my con-
dition. He also sent me over tools of all sorts,
iron-work, and utensils necessary for my plan-
tation, which proved to he of great use to me
in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncom-
mon success crowning my prosperous labors,
I might have rested happy in that middle state
of life my father had so often recommended:
yet nothing would content me, but I must leave
this happy station. Having lived four years in
Brazil, I had not only learned the language,
but contracted acquaintance with the most emi-
nent planters, and even the merchants of St.
Salvador; three of whom came one morning
i
ii
to mo, and told me they had a secret pro-
posal to make. After enjoining me to scores)’,-
tliey told inc they had a mind to t out a ship to
go to Guinea, in order to stock the plantation
with negroes, which as they could not be public-
ly sold, they would divide among them; and if I
would go their supercargo in the ship to manage
the trading part, I should have an equal share
of the negroes, without providing any stock.
The thing indeed was fair enough, had I been
in another condition. But I was born to be my
own destroyer, and could not resist the proposal,
so accepted the offer upon condition of their
looking after my plantation.
The ship being tted out, and all things
ready, we set sail the lst of September, -1659,
being the same day eight years I left my father
and mother in Yorkshire. We sailed north-
ward upon the coast, from whence going farther
into the ocean, out of sight of land, we steered
as though we were leaving the islands on the
cast; and then it was that we met with a terri-
ble tempest, which continued for twelve days
successively, so that the winds carried us where-
soever they pleased. When the weather cleared
up a little, we found ourselves in eleven degrees
north latitude. So altering our course, we sailed
northwest and by west, in order to reach the
Leeward islands: but a second storm succeeding
droye us to the westward; so that we were justly
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel savages,
or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
_ In this great distress, one of our men, early
in the morning exclaimed, “Land ! land!” which
he had no sooner cried out, but our ship struck
upon a sand-bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we ex-
pected we should all perish immediately. We
knew not where we were, or upon what land we
were driven; whether an island or the main,
inhabited or not inhabited; and we could not
so much as hope that the ship would hold out
many minutes, without breaking in pieces, ex-
cept the wind, by a miracle, should turn about
immediately. While we stood looking at one
another, expecting death every moment, the
mate lays hold of the boat, and with the help
of the rest got her ung over the ship’s side,
and getting all into her, being eleven of'us,
we committed ourselves to God’s mercy and the
wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort
would not be suicient protection from death;
so high did the sea rise, that it was impossible
the boat should live. As to making sail, we had
none; neither if we had, could we make use of
any. So that when we had rowed, or rather
were driven, about a league and a half, a raging
wave, like a lofty mountain, came rolling a-stern
of us, and took us with such fury, that at once
it overset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had hardly time to call upon
the tremendous name of God; much less to
implore, in dying ejaculations, his innite mer-
cy to receive our departing souls.
Men are generally counted insensible when
struggling in the pangs of death; but whilel
was overwhelmed with water, I had the moi
dreadful apprehensions imaginable. For the
joys of heaven and the tormentsof hell, seejed
to present themselves before me in these dylllg
agonies, and even small space of time, as it
were, between life and death. I strove, how-
ever, to the last extremity, while all my com-
panions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep: and it was with great difficulty I kept my
breadh till the wave spent itself, and, retiring
back, left me on the shore half dead with the
water I had taken in. As soon as I got on my
feet, I ran as fast as I could, least another wave
should pursue me, and carry me back again.
But for all the haste I made, I could not avoid
it: for the sea came after me like a high moun-
tain, or furioufs enemy; so that my business was
to hold my breath, and by raising myself on
the water, preserve life by swimming. The
next dreadful wave buried me at once twenty
or thirty feet deep, but at the same time carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness toward the
shore; when raising myself, I held out as well
as possible, till at length the water having spent
itself, began to return, at which I struck forward,
and feeling ground with my feet, I took to my
heels again. Thus being served twice more, I
was at length dashed against a piece of rock,
in such a manner as left me senseless; but re-
covering a little before the return of the wave,
I held fast by the rock till those succeeding
waves abated; and then fetching another run,
was Overtaken by a small wave, which was soon
conquered. But before any more could over-
take me, I reached the main land, where clam-
bermg "P the cliffs of the shore, tired and al-
m°3l “Pent, Isat down on the grass, free from
the dangers of the foaming ocean. ~
N0 tongue can express the transports that my
0
Q2 Roatnson cnuson.‘
soul felt at the happy deliverance. It was like
a reprieve to a dying malefaetor, ready to he
turned off. I was wrapt up in contemplation,
and often lifted up my hands, with the profound-
est humility, to the Divine Power, for saving my
life, when the rest of my companions were all
drowned. And now Ibegan to cast my eyes
around, to behold what place I was in, and what
I had next to do. I could see no house nor
people; I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift
me; hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat
or drink; no weapon to destroy any creature
for my sustenance, nor defend myself against
devouring beasts; in short, I had nothing but
a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a box half lled
with tobacco. The darksome night coming on
upon me, increased my fears of being devoured
by wild creatures; my mind was plunged in
despair, and having no prospect, as I thought,
of life before me, I prepared for another kind
of death than what I had lately escaped. I
walked about a furlong to see if I could nd any
fresh water, which Idid, to‘my great joy. I
then got up into a thick bushy tree, and seating
myself so that I could not fall, a deep sleep
overtook me, and for that night I buried my sor-
rows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I
awaked; when I not only perceivedthe tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
far as the rock before-mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.
When I came down from the tree, I perceived
the ship’s boat two miles distant on my right-
hand, ying on shore, as the waves had cast
her. Ithought to have got to her; but there
being an inlet of water of about half a mile’s
breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards the ship, as hoping to nd something
for my more immediate subsistence. About
noon, when the sea was calm, that I could
come within a quarter of amile of her, it was
to my grief that I perceived, that if we had
kept on board, all our lives had been saved.
These thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears
from my eyes, though all in vain. So resolv-
ing to get to the ship, I stripped and leapt into
the water, when swimming round her, I was
afraid I should not get any thing to lay hold
of; but it was my good fortune to espy, a small
piece of rope hang down by the fore-chains, so
ow that, by the help of it, though with great
difficulty, I got into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in the hold; her stern
was lifted up against a bank, and her head al-
most to the water. All her quarter, and what
was there, was free and dry. The provisions I
found in good order, with which I crammed my
pockets, and losing no time, ate while I was
doing other things; I also found some rum, of
which I took a hearty dram; and now I wanted
for nothing except a boat, which indeed was
ll, t0 carry away what was useful to me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a sparetopmast or
“VP, lld two or three large spars of wood.
wllh these I fell to work, and ung as many
Of them overboard as I could manage, tying
“QT! We vfithem with a rope. that they might
42 nomusos cnosoza.
not drive away. This done, I went down to
the ship’s side, and tied four of them fast to-
gether at both ends, in form of a raft, and lay-
ing two or three short pieces of plank crosswise,
then, rst, laying upon it all the planks and
boards I could get, I lowered down three of the
seamen’s chests, after I had lled them with
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, ve pieces of
dried goat’s esh, and some European corn,
what little the rats had spared; and for liquors,
I found several cases of bottles, in which were
some cordial waters, and four or ve gallons of
rack; of clothes also I soon found enough,
though I took no more than I wanted for the
present. My eyes were chiey on tools to work
with; and, after a long search, I found out the
carpenter’s chest, which I got safe down on my
raft. I then looked for arms and ammunition,
and in the great cabin found two good fowling-
pieces, two pistols, several powder-horns lled,
a small bag of shot, and two swords. I likewise
found three barrels of powder, two of which
were good, but the third had taken water, also
two or three saws, an axe, and a hammer. I
then put to sea, and in getting to shore had
three encouragements,--a smooth calm sea, the
tide rising and setting in to shore, and the
little wind there was blowing towards the land.
After I had sailed about a mile, I found the raft
to drive a little distance from the place where I
first landed; and then I perceived a little open-
lng of the land, with a strong current of the
tide running into it: upon which I kept the
middle of the stream; and after some time,
coming up a little river with land on both sides,
i~:~lv<
t
I landed in a little cove, as near the mouth as
possible, the better to discover a sail, if any
such providentially passed that way.
Not. far off, I espied a hill of stupendous
height, surrounded with lesser hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation. Accordingly, arming my-
self with a pistol, a fowling-piece, powder, and
ball, I ascended the mountain. There I per-
ceived I was on an island, encomposserl by the
sea; no distant lands to be seen, but scattered
rocks that lay to the west: that it seemed to be
a barren place, and as l thought, inhabited only
by wild beasts. I perceived abundance of fowls,
but ignorant of what kind, or whether good for
nourishment; I shot one, which I found by its
colour and beak, to be a kind of hawk, but its
esh was perfect carrion. '
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects
on shore, at which work l spent that day en-
tirely; and fearing that some cruel beasts might
devour me in the night time while I slept, I
made akind of hut, or barricade, with the chests
and boards I had brought on shore. That
night I slept very comfortably; and the next
morning my thoughts were employed to make
a further attempt on the ship, and bring away
what necessaries I could nd, before another
storm should break her to pieces. Accordingly
I got on board as before, and prepared a second
raft far more nice than the rst, upon which I
brought away the carpenter’s stores, two or
three bags full of nails, and a great jack-screw,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grindstone;
1)
J
two or three iron crows, two barrels of musket-
bullcts, another fowling-piece, a small quantity
of powder, and a large bag full of small shot.
Besides these, I took all the men’s elothesl
could nd, a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and
some bedding : and thus completing my second
cargo, I made all the haste to shore I could.
When I had gotten these effects on shore, I
went to work, in order to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles which I had cut
for that purpose; and having nished it, what
things might be damaged by the weather I
brought in, piling all the empty chests and
casks in a circle, the better to fortify it against
any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this I blocked up the doors with some boards,
and an empty chest, turned the long way out.
I then charged my gun and pistol, and laying
my bed on the ground, slept comfortably till
next morning.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a
long time, yet despairing of a sudden deliver-
ancc, or that both ammunition and provision
might be spent before such thing happened, I
coveted as much as I could; and as long as
the ship remained in that condition, I daily
"brought away one necessary or other; particu-
larly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some twine,
a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of
meal, three casks of rum, and, what indeed
was most welcome to me, a whole hogshcad of
bread;
The next time I went I cut the_cables in
pieces, carried off a hawser whole, with a great
I-deal of irqp-work, and made another raft with
the iiiizen and sprit-sail-yard; but this being
so unwieldy, by the too heavy burden I had
upon it, and not being able so dexterously to
guide it as the former, both my ¢111‘g0 and I
were overturned. For my part, all the damage
I sustained was a wet skin; and, at l0W \YtBI',
afler much labor iii diving, I got H1081; Of the
cables, and some pieces of iron.‘ _
Thirteen days I had now been in the island,
and eleven times on hoard, bringing away all
that was possible; and I believe, had the wea-
ther been calm, I should have brought away
the whole ship piece by piece. As I was going
the twelfth time, the wind began to rise; how-
ever,I ventured at low water, and rummaging
the cabin, in a locker I found several razors,
scissors, and some dozens of knives and forks;
and in another thirty-six pounds of pieces of
eight, and silver and old: these I wrapt up in
a piece of canvass, and began to think of mak-
ing another raft: but soon perceiving the wind
to arise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and darkness,
I let myself into the water, with what things I
had about me, and it was with much difficulty
I got ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful
storm.
That night I slept very eontentedly in my
little tent, surrounded with all my effects; but
when I looked out in the morning no more ship
was to be seen. This much surprized me for
the present; yet, when I considered I had lost
no time, abated no pains, and had got every
thing useful out of her, I comforted myself in
the best manner, and entirely submitted to the
will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend
and secure myself from savages and wild beasts,
if any such were in the island.
When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water near
it, my resolutions were to search for a soil
healthy and well-watered, where I might not
only be sheltered from the sun’s scorching heat,
but be more conveniently situated, as well to
be secured from wild men and beasts of prey,
as more easily to discover any distant sail,
should it ever so happen. And, indeed, it was
not long before I had my desire. I found a
little plain near a rising hill, the front towards
which being as steep as a house-side, nothing
could descend on me from the top.
On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved a tent should stand. This
plain did not much exceeda hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, like a delightful
green before my door, with a pleasing irregular
descent. every way to the low grounds by the
sea-side,'sheltered from the excessive heat of
the sun. After this, Idrew a semicircle, con-
taining twenty yards in diameter, driving down
two rows of strong stakes, not six inches from
each other. Then with pieces of cables, I re-
gularly laid them in a circle between the piles
up to their tops, which were more than five feet
out of the earth, and after that drove another row
of piles looking within side against them, between
two or three feet high, w ich made rne cen-
chidc it a little imprcgnable castle against men
and beasts. And for my better security l would
have no door, but entered in and came out by
the help of a ladder, which I also iriade. _
I-lore was my fence and fortress, into which I
carried all my riches, ammunition, and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised my
ground two feet, but made a little cellar to my
mansion-house; and this cost me many day’s
labour and pains. One day, in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning
ensued, which put me in terror lest my powder
should take tire, and not only hinder my ne-
cessary subsistencc, my killing food, but even
blow up me and my habitation. To prevent
which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in order
to separate it, having by me near l50lb. weight.
And thus being established as king of the
island, every day I went out with my gun to
see what I could kill that was t to eat. I soon
perceived numbers of goats, but very shy; yet
having watched them narrowly, and seeing I
could better slioet eff the rocks than when in
the low grounds, I shot a she-goat suckling a
young kid; which not thinking its dam slain,
stood by her unconcerned‘ and whenl to k
- o
the dead creature up, the young one followed
me even to the inc osure. I lifted the kid ever
the pales, and would willingly have kept it alive;
but was forced to slay it for my subsistence.
Thus entering into as strange a scene of life
as ever any man was in,; had most melancholy
D
apprehensions concerning my deplorable condi-
tion: and many times the tears would plenti-
fully run down my face, when I considered how
I was debarred from all communication with
human kind. Yet while these dcspoiiding cogi-
tations would seem to make me accuse Provi-
dence, other good thoughts would iiiterpose and
reprove me after this manner: Why should
you complain, when not only your life is pre-
served, but the ship driven even into your reach,
in order to take what was necessary out of her
for your subsistence?
But to proceed. It was, by the account I
kept, the 30th of September, when I rst
landed on this island. About twelve days after,
fearing least I should lose my reckoning of
time, nay, even forget the Sabbath-days, for
want of pen, -ink, and paper, I carved with a
knife upon alarge post, in great letters, and
set it up, in the similitude of a cross, on the
sea-shore where I landed, I came on shore, Sept.
30, I659. Every day Icut a notch with my
knife on the sides of this square post, and that
on the Sabbath was as long again as the rest;
and every rst day of the month as long again
as that long one. In this manner I kept my
calendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoning
of time. But had I made a more strict search
(as afterwards I did) Ineeded not haveset up
this mark; for among the parcels belonging to
the unner, carpenter, and captain’s mate, I
‘S
found those very things I wanted; particullfly
- v ee
pens, ink, and paper: also I found two ort r
com asses, some mathematical instrume_niS,
P .
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
three English Bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up.--Here I Carmel;
but call to inind our having a dog and two cats.
on hoard, whom I made inhabitants with me in
my castle. Though one might think I had all
the necessaries that were desirable, yet still I
found several things wanting. My ink was
daily wasting; I wanted needles, pins, and-.
thread, to mend or keep my clothes together;
and particularly a spade, pickaxe, or shovel, to
remove the earth.
It was a year before I nished my little hula
wark: and I must here add, to the description,
I have given of my habitation, that having
raised a turf-wall against the outside of it, I
thatched it so close, as might keep it from the
inclemency of the weather; I also improved it
within, enlarged my cave, and made a passage
and door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. Inext proceeded
to make a chair and a table, and so began to
study such mechanical arts as seemed to me
practicable. When I wanted a plank or board,
I hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making
it as thin with my axe as possible, and then.
smooth enough with an ailze to answer my de-
signs: yet thoughl could make no more this
way than one board out of artree, in length of
time I got boards enough-to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of
the rock. This made it a very pleasant sight
to me, as being the result of vast laborand
diligence; which leaving for a while, and me to
the enjoyment of it, I shall give the reader
¢
32 nosrsson cnusorz.
an account of my Journal from the day of my
landing, till the xing and settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shown.
L
JOURN AL.
SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659. I‘, unhappy Robinson
Crusoe, having suffered shipwreck, was driven
on this desolate island, which I named the De-
solate Island of Despair, my companions being
swallowed up in the tempestuous ocean, and I
having no prospect but of death, either to be
starved with hunger, or devoured with beasts
or merciless savages.
Oct. 2. This morning, with great comfort
I beheld the shfp drove ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm abated, I might be
able to get some food and necessaries out of her.
When I perceived the ship as it were lie dry, I
waded through the sands, then swam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, and with scarcely
any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages, every tide getting
what I could out of the ship. The weather
very wet and uncertain.
Oct. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet I recovered most again at low
water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the shi went to pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of) her but the wreck at low
water. This day I secured my goods from the
inclemency of the weather. -
aoamsou causor-:. 33
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could
nd a place convenient for my abode. I xed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half-
moon, intending to erect a Wall, fmed Wm‘
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 1 Erected my tent under a rock, and
took up my lodgings very contentedly 1n a ham-
mock that night. _
Nov. 3. I shot two wild fowl, ducks, WltlCll
were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
. Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; I then worked till
near eleven o’clock, and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. From twelve
to two I would lie down to sleep. Extremely
sultry weather. In the evening got to work
again.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the
12th, but omitted the llth, which, according
to my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to desist for want of a pickaxe, shovel,
and wheelbarrow. lron crows I caused to sup-
ply the place of the rst; but with all my art
I could not make a wheelbarrow.
Nov. I8. It was my fortune to nd a tree,
resembling what the Brazilians call an iron-tree.
I had like to have spoiled my axe with cutting
it. being very hardand exceedingly heavy, yet
with much labor and industry, I made a sort of
spade out of it. '
Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days I allowed
for enlarging my cave, that it might serve me,
not only for a warehouse, but kitchen, parlour,
and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unless
the weather was rainy that I could not lie dry.
So wet would it be at certain seasons, that I was
obliged to cover all within the pale with long
poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with ags and large leaves
of trees, resembling a thatch.
Dec. I0. "No sooner did I think my liabi-
tation nished, but suddenly a great deal of the
top brake in, so that it was a mercy I was not
buried in the ruins. This occasioned a great
deal of pains and trouble to me, before I could
make it rm and durable.
Dec. 20. Every thing being put into its
plape, I made a sort of a dresser, and another
tab e.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, and wounded another. I led it home
in a string, bound up its leg, and cured it in a
little time: at length it became so tame and
familiar as to feed before the door, and follow
me where Ipleased. This put me in mind to
bring up tame creatures, in order to supply me
with food after my ammunition was spent.
Jan. 3 to 14. My employment this time
was to nish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I shot some, which proved excel-
lent tbod. I now took some goat’s tallow I
had about inc, and a littlci oakuni for the wick,
and provided myself witlia lamp, which served
me instead of candles.
But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag, which used to
hold corn for the fowls; so immediately resolv-
ing to put gunpowder in it, I shook all the hiisks
and dirt upon one side of the rock, little expect-
ing wliat the consequence would be. The rain
hail fallen plcntifully a few days before: and
about a month after, to my great amazement,
something began to sprout out very green and
ourishing; and when I came to view it more
nicely every day as it grew, I found about ten or
twelve ears of green barley appeared in the very
same shape aiiil make as that in England.
I can scarcely express the agitations of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto, I had looked
upon the actions of this life no otherwise than
only as the events of blind chance and fortune.
But now the appearance of this barley ourish-
ing in a barron soil, and my ignorance in not
conceiving how it should come there, made me
conclude, “ that miracles were not yet ceasedz”
nay, I even thought that God had appointed it
to_ grow there, purely for my sustenance in this
miserable and desolate island. And indeed such
great effect this had upon me, that it often made
me melt into tears, through a grateful sense of
God’s mercies; and the greater still was my
thaiikfulness, when I perceived about this little
held _of barley some rice stalks, also wonderfully
ourishing. c
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be more corn in the island; and I’,l](3fgfQ|-(3
made a diligent search narrowly among the
rocks; but not being able to nd any, on 3,
sudden it came into my mind, how I had shaken
the husks of corn out of the bag, and then my
admiration ceased, with my gratitude to um 1);.
vine Being, as tliinlcing it was but natural, and
not to be conceived a miracle; though even the
manner of its preservation might have made me
own it was a wonderful event of God’s kind
Providence
It was about the latter end of June when the
ears of this corn ripened, which I laid up very
carefully together with twenty or thirty stalks of
rice, expecting one day] should reap the fruit
of my labour; yet four years were expired be-
fore I could allow myself to eat any barley
bread, and much longer time before I had any
rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and
industry, for three or four months, at last I
nished my wall on the 14th of April, having
no way to go into it, but by a ladder against
the wall.
April 17. I nished my ladder, and ascended
it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on
the other side, anddescendcd into my new liabi-
tation, where I had s ace enough, and so forti-
ed that nothing coulld attack me without scal-
ing the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry
avail, if the blessing of God does not crown our
labours? Or who can stand before the Al-
' ht when he stretcheth forth his arm? For
mig _y, _
one time as Iwas at the entrance of my cave,
k that
there happened such a dreadful earthqua e,
not only the roof of the cave came tumbling
about my ears, but the posts seemed to crack
terribly at the same time. This put me in great
amazement; and running to the_ladder, allfl
getting over the wall, I then plainly knew it
was an earthquake; the place I stood on sustained
three terrible shocks in less than three minutes.
But judge of my terror when I saw the top of
a great rock roll into the sea; I then expected
the island would be swallowed up every mo-
ment: and what made the scene still more
dreadful, was to see the sea thrown into the
most violent agitations and disorders by this tre-
niendous accident.
It was not long after, when a horrible tempest
arose, at the same time attended with a hurri-
cane of wind. The sea seemed mountains high,
and the waves rolled so impetuously, that no-
thing could be perceived but froth and foam.
Three hours did this storm continue, and in so
violent a manner, as to tear the very trees up
by the roots, which was succeeded by abund-
ance of rain. When the tempest was over, I
went to my tent: but the rain coming on in a.
furious manner, I was obliged to take shelter in
the cave, where I was forced to cut a channel
through my fortication to let the water out.
It continued raining all that night, and some
time the next day. These accidents made me
resolve, as soon as the weather cleared up, to
build me a little hut in some open place, walled
round to defend me from wild creatures and
savages. p
_ April 16--Q2. These days I spent in contriv-
mg how and ip what manner I should x my
B
\
place of abode. All this while I was under the
most dreadful appreheiisioii.--Wlieu I began in
put my resolution in practice, I was stopt for
want of tools and instruments to work with.
Most of my axes and liatchcts were useless, by
cutting the hard timber that grew on the island,
But at last I made my griudstone of use to me
as I found out a way to turn it about with my:
foot, by help of a wheel and a string. '
April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.
May l. As I walked along the sea-shore, I
found a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces
of the wreck, the sea had ung up. Having
secured these, I made to the ship, whose stern
was tore off, and washed a great distance ashore;
but the rest lay in the sands. This I supposed
was occasioned by the earthquake.
May 5. This day I repaired to the wreck,
and made a oat of three great planks, which
were driven ashore by the tide.
May 6--9. These days I broughtoff the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow, and
carried two planks to land, together with great
quantities of iron and timber.
May ‘Z4. 'l‘o this day I worked on the wreck,
and with great diiculty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the rst owing-
tide, several casks oated out, and many of the
seainen’s chests; yet that day nothing came to
land but pieces of timber, and a hogshead which
had some Brazil pork in it. I continued work-
ing to the léith of June; and I had also near
I00‘ weight of sheet lead. »
Tune I6. As I was wandering towards the
uoerusou cnusou. 39
sea-side, I found a large tortoise, 0I'_t‘"'tle»
being the first I had seen on the island;
thougli, as I afterivzwds found, there were many
on the otherside of it. _ _
June I7. This day I‘ sp€lll3 In Qooklng ‘t’
found in her threescore eggs, and her esh tl1€
most savoury and pleasant I ever tasted in my
life.
June 19. Exceedingly ill, being taken with
a trembling and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain and feverish. _ _
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrieilvritli
the dismal apprehensions of my condition.
Prayed to God more frequently, but very con“
fusedly. ‘
June 22. Something better, but still uneas
Y
in my mind.
June 2:3. A violent ague for seven hours,
ll d
co I :m hot tits succeeded with iint sweets
June Q6. Better, but very weak, yet L
scrambled out, shot a she-goat, brought it
home and l .'l ,d .~ ' ' ' '
. )l‘0l e some of it, I would-willingly
have stewed it, and made some broth, "but had
no pot. '
June 27. All this day I was atilicted with
an ague; thirsty, yet could not help myself to
water; prayed to God in these words: “ Lord,
in pity look upon me: Lord, have mercy upon
me!” After this I fell asleep, which -I'"found‘
had much refreshed me, when I awaked.
I rose up in a pensive manner, being‘ so
thoughtful that I could not go to sleep; and
fearinp; the dreadful return of my distemper iit
(‘Z8
I
use: me to remember, that the Brazilians use
tobacco for almost all diseases. I then went to
my chest in order to nd some, where Heaven,
no doubt, directed me to nd a cure for both
soul and body; for there I found one of the
Bibles, which, till this time, I had not had
inclination to look into. I took both the
tobacco and that out of the chest, and laid them
on the table. Several experiments did I try
with the tobacco; First, I took a piece of leaf,
and chewed it; but it being very green and
strong, almost stupied me. Next I steeped.
it in some rum an hour or two, resolving when l.
went to bed to take a dose of it: and in the
third place, I burnt some over a pan of fire,
holding my nose over it as long as I could en-
dure it without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco, l
took up the bible to read. No sooner did I open
it, but there appeared to me these words, “ (_3alI
upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify me.”
At rst, this sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart, but it soon wore oft’ again,
when I considered the word deliver was foreign
to me. However the words would still return
t m mind and afterwards made a greater im-
O 1 _
presslon upon me. As it was neg very late,
I s in-
and the tobacco had dozed my hea , wan
clined to sleep; but beforel would lie down 1
fell on my knees, and implored the promise that
God had made me in the Holy Scriptures, that
“ if l called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me.” With much difculty, I
afterwards drank the rum, wherein I had steeped
the tobacco, which ying into my lledi threw
me into such a profound sleep, that it was three
o’clock the next day before I awaked; or
rather, I believe, I slept two days, having eer-
tainly lost a day in my account, and I could
never tell any other way. When I got up, my
spirits were lively and cheerful; my stomach
much better, being very hungry ; and in short,
no fit returned the next day, which was the-
29th, but I found myself inuch altered for the
better.
July 3. My illness quite left me, but very
weak. In this condition, I often tlionght of
these words, “ I will deliver thee ;” and while,
at sometimes, I would think of the impossibi-
lity of it, other thoughts would reprehend me
for disregarding the deliverances I had received,
oven from the most forlorn and distressed ;---so
much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness
in the most humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa-
ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night. As soon as I set about this
work seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impiety of my past life. After this, I
begged of God to assist me with -his Holy Spirit
in returning to my duty. One day, in perusim»
ll"? sl U-"'88, I came to these words. “ Hiya
hath God exalted to be a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance and to give reniission:”
mmicdmtely I laid down the book, and. with
uplifted hands to Heaven, loudly cried, " 0
bread Jesus, thou S(Il§I1;f David, Jesus, than
exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repent-
ance l” Aitd now indeed I prayed with a true
sense of my condition, and a more certain
hope, founded on the word of God. Now I
had a dierent sense of these words, “ Call on
me, and I will deliver thee,” that is, from the
dreadful load of guilt which oppressed my sinfuli
soul; and in a word, I came to this conclusion,
that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessing than a deliverance from affliction.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used, were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend them
to any one’s practice. For, though it carried
off the t, it very much weakened me, and li
had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time.
I had now been about ten months in the
island; and, as I bad never seen any of the liuuian
kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole mo-
narch; and as I grew better, having secured
my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.
15th of July, I began my journey; 1 rst
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts
on shore; and, travelling farther, found that
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running water,
on the bank of which were many pleasant
savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass. On the rising parts, where I
supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
A
great deal of tobacco growing to. a very strong
stalk. Several other plants I likewise found,
the virtues of which I did not understand.
There were several plants of aloes, though at
that time 1 knew not what they were; like-
wise I saw several sugar canes, but imperfecll
for want of cultivation. With these few disco-
veries, I came back that night, and slept con-
tentedl y in my little castle.
The next. day, going the same way, I found
the country more adorned with woods and trees.
Here I perceived different fruits in great abund-
ance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and
clusters of grapes, ripe and very rich, spread
over the trees. You may imagine I was glad
of this discovery, yet ate very sparingly, lest
I should throw myself into a fever. The grapes
I found of excellent use ; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried
raisins are kept, they proved very wholesome
and nourishing, and served me in those seasons
when iro grapes were to he had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a
tree, and slept very comfortably, though it was
the rst time I had lain out of my habitation.
And when the morning came, I proceeded on
my way, travelling about four miles, as I ima-
gined, by the length of the valley. At the
end of this valley, I came to an opening, where I
found a little spring of fresh water, proceeding
out of the side of the hill, with its crvstal
streams running directly east. And, indeed,
here my senses were charmed with the most
beautiful landsca e nature could afford; for the
country appearecllso ourishing, green, and de-
lightful, that to me it seemed like a planted
garden. I then descended on the side of that
delicious vale, when I found abundance of cocoa,
orange, lemon and eitron trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. g As for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice ol
which I after used to mix in water, which made
it very cooling and refreshing. And now I was
resolved to carry home and lay up a store of
grapes, limes, and lemons, against the ap-
preaching wet season. So laying them up in
several parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me, l returned to my little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey.
July I9. Having prepared two bags, I re-
turned thither again, but, to my great surprise,
found all the grapes spread about, trod to pieces,
and an abundance eaten, which made me con-
"clude there were wild beasts thereabouts. To
prevent this happening again, I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the outer branches of the tree, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure
and dry in the sun: and having well loaded my-
self with limes and lemons, I returned once more
to my old place of residence.
And now contemplating on the frnitfulness of
this valley, and the pleasantness of its situation,
I began to think of removing my habitation. _
But when I considered again, thati, though it
was pleasant, it was oft‘ from the sea-side, where
there was a possibility, some time or other, a
ship might either be driven or sail by,‘I re-
solved to let my castle remain where Providence
had rst assigned it. Yet so ravislied was I
with this place, that I made me a little kind of
bower, surrounding it with a double hedge, as
high as I could reach, and having spent a great
part of the month of July, I think it was the
rst of August before I began to enjoy my
habitation.
Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them from the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun: the most of
which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so; by which I saved the best part of my
winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and I
was obliged to return to my old castle. The rain
continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October; and sometimes so violent,
that I could not stir out of my cave for seve-
ral days.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir
out, it raining incessantly; when, beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice;
the rst of which I shot a goat, and afterwards
found a very large tortoise. The manner of my
regulating my food was thus : a bunch of raisins
served me for my breakfast, a iece of goat’s
flesh, or turtle, boiled, for my dinner, and two
or three turtle’s eggs for my supper. While the
rain lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at
enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on
towards one side, till Icame to the outside of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and out this way.
$Bpl-
Casting up my notches on my
post, which amounted to 365, I concluded this
46 noamson CRUSOE.
to he the anniversary of my landing; and,
therefore, humbly 1I‘0Sl'.l‘{llll1 myself on the
ground, and ackniiwledgingg God’s rigliteoiis
judgments upon me, I prayed to Jesus Christ
to have mercy tnpon me. Then eating a biscuit
and a bunch of grapes, laid me on the bed, and
with great comfort took my night's repose.
My ink failing soon after, I omitted in my daily
memorandum things of an indifferent nature,
and contented myself to write down only the
most remarkable events of my life. The rainy
and dry seasons appeared now regular to me,
and experience taught me how to provide for
them ; yet, in one thing I am going to relate,
my experience very much failed me. You may
call to mind what I have mentioned of some
barley and rice, which I had saved; about thirty
stalks of the former and twenty of the latter :
and, at that time, the sun being in its soutliern
position, going from me, together with the
rains, made me conclude it a very proper sea-
son to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece of
ground with my wooden spade, and sowed
about two thirds of my seed, preserving by ml?
about a handful of each. Atnd happy it was l
did so; for no rains falling, it was elioakeil up,
and never appeared above the earth till the wet
season came again ; and then part of it grew as
if it had been newly sown. _
I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of ground near
my bower, “I there sowed the rest of my Seed "E
February, a little before the vernal equinox Li
which having the rainy months of March an‘
April to water it, yielded »a noble crop» 1""
sprang up verv pleasantly. 1 had still saved
part of the seed, not daring to venture all; and’
by the time I_found out the proper seasons to
sow it in, and that I might expect every year
two seed-times and two harvests, my stock
amounted to above half a peck of each sort of
grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like
willows, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of the tree I cut them from:
but they grew so regularly beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance, and so ou-
rished in three years’ time, that I resolved to
cut more of them; and these soon growing,
made a glorious fence, as afterwards I shall
observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might generally be divided, not into summer
and winter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry
seasons, as in this manner :--
Froni Feb. 15th Rainy, sun coining
to April 15th near the Equinox.
From {April l5th l Dry, sun getting north
to (August lthj of the Linc.
From _IAugust ism I Wet, the sun being
to (October 15th thcn come hack.
From Oct. 15th Dry, sun running south
10 Feb. of the Line.
The wet set season would coutiiiue longer or
shorter, and during the wet months, I sat
within doors as much as possible. At this
time I contrived to make many handy tliings
thatl wanted, though it cost me much labor
and pains before I could accomplish them.
The rst I tried was to make a basket; but
all the twigs I could get proved so brittle, that
I could not then perform it. It now proved
of great use to me, that, when a bov, I took
great delight in standing at a basket-maker’s,
in the same town where my father lived, to
view them at work: like other boys, being cu-
rious to see the manner of their working these
things, and very oicious to assist, I perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing
but the tools. And it coming into my mind,
that the twigs of that. tree of which I made
my stakes, might be as tough as a sallow wil-
low, or osiers growing in England, I resolved
to make an experiment, and went the next day
to my country seat, and found some t for my
turn; and after cutting down a quantity with
my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and
when t to work with, carried them to my cave,
where I employed myself in making several
sorts of baskets, insomuch that I could put in
whatsoever I pleased. It is true they were not
cleverly made, yet they served my turn upon
all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two al-
most full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
' ' ' l lar e kettle
I a pot to boil any thing in, on y a g ,
unt to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: I
anted likewise at the beginning of this dry
w
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this I afterwards
found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my so
cond row of stakes. But remeinbering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my
intention, and taking mv dog, gun, hatchet,
two biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with
a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stood, I came within view of
tpe sgla lyilng _tp tlhe west]; when; itrbeipg a
cear ay, airy escrie ani, ex curing rom
the W. to the S. W. about 10 or I5 leagues, as
I concluded; but could not say whether it was
an island or a continent. Neither could Itell
what this place might be; only thought it was
part of America, and where I might have been
ma miserable condition had I landed. Again,
I considered, that if this was the Spanish
coast, certainly, one time or other, I should sec
some ships pass by; and if it was not, then it
must be the savage coast, between the Spanish
country and Brazil, which abounds wit can-
nibals or man-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
elds fragrant, adorned with sweet owers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty which
made me long for one to he my companion; but
it was with great difficulty I could knock one
down with my stick; and I keplt him at home
some years, before] could get im to call me
by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of
hares and foxes, as I took them to be, but much
F
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, hut never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, lconld defy
any market to furnish me with a better tahie.
In this journey I did not travel above two
milesa day, because I took several turns and
windings, to see what discoveries I could make,
returning weary enough to the place where I
designed to rest all night, which was either in
a tree, or to a place which I surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
surprise inc. When I came to the sea-shore,
I was amazed to see the splendor of it. Its
strand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful sh, and constantly aboiiiidiiig with
innumerable turtles, and fowls of many kinds,
which I was ignorant of, except those called
penguins. I might have shot as many as I
pleased, but was sparing of my ammunition;
rather choosing to kill a she-goat, which I did
with much difliculty, on account of the atness
of the country.
In this journey my dog surprised a kid, and
would have killed it, had I not prevented him.
As I had often been thinking of getting a kid
or two, and so raising a breed of tame goats to
supply me after my ammunit_ion_ was spent, I
took this opportunity of beginning: and ‘hav-
ing ntadea collar for this little creature, with a
string made of rope-yarn, I brought ll t° my
bower, and there iiiclosed_and left him; and
having spent a month in thisyourney, at length
I returned to my own habitation. _
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I rr-turned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my liaunnoek. After my _ioitrne_y, I
rested tnyself a week, which time I employed
in nuiking :1 cage for my iretty Poll. I now
began to consider my poor laid I had left in the
hower, and I iininediately went to fetch it home.
When I came there, I found the youth; crea-
ture almost starved: -I gave it some food, and
tied it as hefore: but there was no oecasion,
for it followed me like at dog; and, as l con-
stantly fed it, it hecame so gentle, loving, and
fond, that it commenced one of mydumesties,
and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come. I kept the 30th of Septem-
ber in the most solemn manner, as usual; it
being the third year of my nhoile on this island.
I spent the whole day in neknowletlgitig God’s
mereii-s, in giving him thanks for making this
solitary life as agreeable and less rsittlttl, than
that of human society; and for the eotnmuni-
cations of his grace to my soul, in supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend up-
on his Providence, and hope for his eternal
presence in the world to come.
One morning as I was in a dull pensive mood,
I openrml my Hihle, when I immediately xed
my eyes upon these words, “ I will never leave
thee, nor forsake'thee!” Surely, thought I,
these words are directed to mo, or else why
should they appear just at this moment? and
if God does not forsake, what matters it, einee
he can make me more happy in this state of
life, than if I enjoyed the greatest splendor in
the world? And whenever I opened or shut the
Bible, I blessed kind Providence, that directed
my good friend in England to send it among
my goods without any order, and for assisting
me to save it from the power of the raging
ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my se-
veral daily employments were these: First, my
duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
Holy Scriptures; which I did twice or thrice
every day: Secondly, seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning:
Thirdly, the ordering, curing, reserving, and
cooking what I killed, or catclicd for my sup-
ply, which took nie up great part of the day:
for, in the middle of the day, the sun being in
its height, it was so hot, that] could not stir
out; so that I had only four hours in the even-
ing to work in: and then the want of tools,
of assistance, and skill, wasted a great deal of
time to little purpose. I was no less than two-
and-forty days making a board t for a long
shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools and
saw-pit, would have cut off the same tree in
half a day.
The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I l13.(l.lLlt8
pleasing prospect of a very good crop. But
here I met with a new misfortune; for the goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
the blades, kept it so short, that it had not
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, I inclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I tied to my eld gate, keeping barking all
night, so frightened those creatures, that I got
entirely rid of them.
But no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared, to wit, whole ocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned, to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let y, and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwards served them
as they do notorious thieves in England, hung
them up in chains, as a terror to others. And,
indeed, so good an effect had this, that they
not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hung
there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter
end of December, which was my second harvest,
lrea ed it with a scythe, made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting
down my rst crop, it was so slender. The
cars I carried home in a basket, rubbing it with
my hands instead of thrashing it: and when
the harvest was over, found my half peck of
seed produced near two bushels of rice and two
bushels and ahalf of barley. And now I plain-
ly foresaw, that, by God’s goodness, I should
he furnished with bread; but yet I was con-
tlefll, because I knew not how to grind or
make meal of my corn, or bread, neither knew
I how to bake it. I would not, however, taste
any_ of the crop, but resolved to preserve it
against next season, and, in ‘the mean while,
use my best endeavours to provide myself with
other food.
But where were my labours to end? The
want of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel
‘ F3
to dig it with, I conquered by making mea
wooden spade. The want of a harrow I sup-
plied myself with dragging over the corn a
great bough of a tree. When it was growing,
I was forced to fence it: when ripe, to mow it,
carry it home, thrash it, part it from the clia‘
and save it. And, after all, I wanted a mill to
grind it, sieve to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it,
This set my brains to work to nd out some
expedient for every one of these necessaries
against the next harvest.
And now having more seed, my rst care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large at pieces of ground near my castle, for
that purpose, in which Isowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months: by which time the wet season
coining on, and the rain keeping me within
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self‘ and, while at work, used to divert myself
in tiilking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name, Poll, the rst wel-
' ' l d. I
come word I ever heard spoke in the is an
had been a long time contriving how to make
earthen vessels, which I wanted extremely,
and when I considered the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt that if I could nd any such
clay, I might botch up a pot, strong enough,
when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and
to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and_otber things.
To be short, the clay I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways “I took, and what ugly
mishapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed: so
that I think it was two months before I could
perfect any thing; and even then but two clum-
sy things in imitation of earthen Jars. 'lhese,
however, I very gently placed in wicker baskets
made on purpose for them, and between the pot
and the baskets, stuffed it full of rice and barley
straw, and these I presumed would hold my
dried corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn
was bruised. As for the smaller things, I made
them with better success; such as little round
pots, at dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun
baking them very hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to
hold my liquid, but also to bear the re, which
none of these could do. It once happened,
that as I was putting out the re, I found there-
in a broken piece of one of my vessels burnt as
hard as a rock, and red as a tile. This made
me think of burning some pots: and having no
notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I xed three large pipkins, and two or three
pots in a ile upon one another. The re I
piled rountl) the outside, and dry wood on the
top till I saw the pots in the inside red hot, and
found that they were not cracked at all; and
when I perceived them perfectly red, I let one
of them stand in the re about ve or six hours,
till the clay melted by the extremity of the
heat, and would have run to glass had I suf-
fered it; upon which I slakened my re by
degrees, till the redness abated; and watching
them till the morning, I found I had three verv
good pipkins, and two earthen pots, as well
burnt and t for my turn as I could desire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this dis-
covery. For after this, I may say, I wanted
for no sort of earthenware. I lled one of my
pipkins with water to boil me some meat, which
it did admirably well, and with a piece of kid,
I made me some good broth, as well as my
circumstances would afford me at that time.
The next concern I had, was to get me a
stone mortar to heat some corn in, instead of a
mill to grind it. Here indeed, I was at a great
loss, as not being t for a stone-cutter; iand
many days I spent to f-ind out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow and make t for a mortar
and strong enough to bear the weight of a pes-
tle, and that would break the corn without. fil-
ling it with sand. But all the stones of the
island being of a niouhlering nature, rendered
my search fruitless; and then I resolved to look
out for a great block of hard wood, which hav-
ing found, I formed it with my axe and hammer,
and then, with innite labour, made a hollow
in it, just as the Indians of Brazil make their
canoes. When I had nished this, Imade a
great pestle of iron wood, and then laid them
up against my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make a sieve to sift
my meal, _ and part it from the bran and husks.
Having no ne thin canvas to scarce the meal
through, I could not tell what to do. What
linen I had was reduced to rags; Ihad goat's
hair enough, but neither tools to work it, nor
did I know how to spin it; at length I remem-
bered I had some neckclotlis of calico or muslin
of the sailors, which I had brought out of the
ship, and with these I made three small sieves
proper enough for the work.
I come now to consider the baking part.
The want of an oven I supplied by making
some earthen pans, very broad, but not deep.
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great re
upon the earth, the tiles of which I had made
myself; and when the wood was burnt into live
coals, I spread them over it, till it became very
hot; then sweeping them away, I set down my
loaves, and whelming down the earthen pots
upon them, drew the ashes and coals all around
the outsides of the pot to continue the heat;
and in this manner I baked my barley loaves,
as well as if I had been a complete astry-cook,
and also made of the rice several) cakes and
puddings.
It is no wonder that these things took me up
the best part of a year, since what interme-
diate time I had was bestowed in managing my
new harvest and husbandry; for in the proper
season I reaped my corn, carried it home, and
laid it up in the ear in my large baskets, till I
had time to rub, instead of thrashing it. And
now indeed my corn increased so much,. that
it produced me twenty bushels of barley, and
as much rice, that I not only began to use it
freely, but was thinking how to enlarge my
barns, and resolved to sow as much at a time as
would be_suic_ient for me for alwhole year.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other side of the island, ran
liiiiiy mind. I stillnieditated a deliverance from
this place, though the fear of greater misfor-
tunes might have deterred me from it. For,
allowing that I had attained that place, Iran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by devour-
ing cannibals; and if they were not so, yet I
might be slain, as other Europeans had been,
who fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all
this, my thoughts ran continually upon that
shore. I now wished for the long-boat, with
the shoulder-of-mutton-sail; I went to the
ship’s boat that had been cast a great way on
the shore in the late storm. She was removed
but a little; but her bottom being turned up by
the impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind,
I fell to work with all the strength I had, with
levers and rollers I had cut from the wood to
turn her, and repair the damages she had sus-
tained. This work took me up three or four
weeks, when nding my little strength all in
vain, I fell to undermining it by digging away
the sand, and so to make it fall ldown, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide it in the fall.
But after all this was done, I was still unable to
stir it up, or to get under it, much less to move
it forward towards the water, and so I was
forced to give it over.
This disappointment, however, did not fright-
en me, I began to think whether it was not pos-
sible for me to make a canoe, or perigua, such
as the Indians make of the trunk of a tree.
But here I lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to
move it in the water when it was made. How-
ever, to work I went upon it, stopping all the
inquiries I could make, with this very simple
answer I made to myself. Let’s rst make it,
I’ll warrant I’ll nd some way or other to get it
along when it is done.
I rst cut down a cedar-tree, which was five
feet ten inches in diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches in dia-
meter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which
it lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
hewing this tree at the bottom, fourteen more in
cutting off the branches and limbs, and a whole
month in shaping-it like the bottom of a boat,
As for the inside, I was three weeks with a mal-
let and chisel, clearing it in such a manner, as
that it was big enough to carry twenty-six men,
iii?"l...l’i'§§§§..“L1?.ti‘§"Zu$‘3Z§iI$’§§..i§L“'J§i lily
1 - B
anp ailll I51y'€lI(3€CtS to that wished-for shldre I so
an en y esire .
Nothing remained now, but indeed the
.2. '. . s rom 1 , 0 re-
the rst incouvenieiice, which was a rising
1 etween the boat and the creek, with won-
derful pains and labour I dug into the bowels of
the earth, and made a declivily. But when this
was done, all the strength I had was insuicient
to remove it, as it was when I attempted to re-
m0\’B the boat. I then proceeded to measure
the distance of ground, resolving to make a
canal in order totbring the water to the canoe,
since I could not bring the canoe to the water.
But as this seemed to be impracticable to myself
ftlmw, under the space of eleven or twelve years,
It brought me into some sort of consideration;
so that I concluded this also to be impossible,
and the attempt altogether vain. I now saw,
and not before, what stupidity it is to begin
work before we reckon its cost, or judge rightly
of our own abilities to go through with its per-
formance.
In the height of this work my fourth year
expired from the time I was cast on this island.
At this time I did not forget my anniversary;
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing
to do with; and very well might Isay, as fa-
ther Abraham said unto Dives, “ Between thee
and me there is a gulf xed.” And indeed I
was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the esh, the lust of the eye,
nor the pride of life, Iliad nothing to covet,
being lord, king, and emperor, over the whole
country I had in possession, without dispute
and {without control; I had loading of corn,
plenty of turtles, timber in abundance, and
grapes above measure. What was all the rest
to me? the money I had lay by me as despica-
ble dross, which I would freely have given for a
gross of tobacco-gipes, or a handmill to grind
my corn; in a wor , the nature and experience
of these things dictated to me this just reec-
tion: That the good things of this world are
no farther good to us, than they are for our use;
and that whatever we may heap up to give to
others, we can but enjoy as much as we use and
no more.
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy
than usual. Every time I set down to meat.» I
. ..i.:sss~.»~a»»»
did it with tliankfuhicss, admiring the provi-
dcntiiil hand of God, who in this wilderness,
had spread a table to me. And now Iconsi-
ilercd what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted,
compared my present condition with what I at
rst expected it would be, how I should have
done ifl had got nothing out of the ship, that
I niust have perished before I had caught fish
or turtles, or lived had I found them, like a
mere savage, by eating them raw, and pulling
them to pieces with my claws, like a beast. I
next compared my situation to that which I dc-
scrved; how undutiful I had been to my pa-
rents, how destitute of the fear of God, how
void of every thing that was good, and how un-
grateful for those abundant mercies I had rc-
ceived from Heaven, being fed as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah’s being fed by
ravens, and cast on'a place where there were no
venenious creature to poison or devour me;
in short, making God’s tender mercies matter
of great consolation, I relinquished all sadness,
and gave way to contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with
water I made last as long as I could, I used to
minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable event happened.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was
the biscuit which I had brought out of the ship;
and though I allowed myself but one cake a
day for above a twelvemonth, yet I was quite
out of bread for near a year, before I got any
corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay,
and my linen had been gone long before. How-
0
t
ever, I had preserved about three dozen of the
sailors’, chequered shirts, which proved a great
refreshment to me, when the violent beams of
the sun would not suffer me to bear any of the
seamen’s heavy watch-coats; which made me
turn tailor, and after a miserable botching
manner, convert them to jackets. To preserve
my head, l made me a cap of goat’s-skin, with
the hair outwards to keep out the rain; which
indeed served me so well, that afterwards I
made me a waistcoat and open-kneed breeches
of the same: and then I contrived a sort of
umbrella, covering it with skins, which not on-
ly kept out the heat of the sun, but rain also.
Thus being easy and settled in my mind, my
chief happiness was to converse with God, in
most heavenly and comfortable ejaculations.
For ve years after this I cannot say any ex-
traordinary thing occurred to me. My chief em-
ployment was to cure my raisins, and Lplant my
barley and rice, of both of which I ha a year’s
provision beforehand. But though I was dis-
appointed in my rst canoe, I made it, at inter-
mediate times, my business to make a second,
of much inferior size; and it was two years be-
fore I had nished it. But as I perceived it
would in no wise answer my design of sailing to
the other shore, my thoughts were conned to
take a tour round the island, to see what fur-
ther discoveries I could make. To this intent,
after having moved her to the water, and tried
‘how she would sail, I fitted up a little mast I0
my boat, and made a sail of the ship's sail that
lay by me. I then made lockers, or bone? l-
the end of it, to put in necessaries, pl‘0Vl5,l0Ib
and ammunition, which would preserve them
dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea;
and in the inside of the boat, I cut me a long
hollow place to lay my gun in, and to keep it
dry, made a flag to hang over it. My umbrella
I xed in a step in the stern, like a mast, to
keep the heat of the sun off me. And now re-
solving to see the circumference of my little
kingdom, l vietualled my ship for the voyage,
putting in two dozen of my barley-bread loaves,
an earthen potfull of parched rice, a little bottle
of rum, half a goat, powder and shot, and two
watchcoats. It was the 6th of November, in
the 6th year of my reign or captivity, that I
set out ‘on this voyage; which was much longer
than I expected, being obliged to put farther
out, by reason of the rocks that lay a great
way in the sea. And indeed so much did these
rocks sur rise me, that I was for putting back,
fearing tllat if l ventured farther it would be
out of my power to return. In this uncertainty
I came to an anchor just off shore, to which
I waded wilh'my gun on my shoulder, and then
climbing up a hill, which overlooked that point,
Isaw the full extent of it, and so resolved to
run all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming
very close to the point, which I the more care-
fully observed, thinking it dangerous, and that
when I came to it, I might be drove into the
sea by its force, and not be able to return to
the island; and certainly it must have been so
had Inot have made this observation; for on
the other side was the like current, with this
difference, that it set off at a greater distance;
and I perceived there was a strong eddy under
the land ; so that my chief business was to work
out of the rst current, and conveniently get
into the eddy. Two days I staid here, the wind
blowing very briskly E. S. E. which being con-
trary to the current, leaves a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so it was neither t for
me to keep too near the shore on account of the
breach, nor stand at too great a distance for
fear of the streams. That night the wind abat-
ing, it grew so calm thatl ventured out; and
here I may be a warning to all rash and igno-
rant pilots; for I was no sooner come to the
point, and not above a boat’s length from shore,
-but I was got into deep water, with a current
like a mill, which drove my boat along so vio-
lently, that it was impossible to keep near the
edge of it, but forced more and more out from
the eddy to the left of me; and all I could do
with my paddles were useless, there being no
wind to help me.
Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no hopes but of perish-
ing for want in the sea, after what provisions
I had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? With longing eyes did
I look upon my little kingdom, and thought
the island the pleasantest place in the universe.
Happy, thrice hap y desert, said I, shall_I
never see thee moreil) Wretched creature! whi~
lher am I a going? Why did I murmur at my
lonesome condition, when now I would give
the whole world to be thither again? While I
was thus complaining, I found myself to be
driven about two leagues into the sea; however,
I labored till my strength was far spent, to
keep my boat as far north as possibly I could,
to that side of the current where the eddy lay
on. About noon I perceived a little breeze of
wind spring up from the S.S.E. which over-
joyed my heart; and was still more elated, when
in about half an hour, it blew a ne gentle
gale. Accordingly I set up my mast again,
spread my sail, and stood away northward as
much as I could, to get rid of the current; and
no sooner did the boat begin to stretch away,
but I perceived by the clearness of the water,
a change of the current was near; for where it
was strong, the water was foul; and where it
was clear, the current abated.
Those who have been in the like calamities,
may guess my present excess of joy; how
heartily I ran my boat into the stream of this
eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail to the
refreshing wind, standing cheerfully before it,
with a smart tide under foot. By the assistance
of this eddy, about four 0’clock in the after-
noon, I reached within a league of the island,
and in an hour came within a mile of the shore,
where I soon landed to my unspeakable comfort;
and after an humble prostration, thanking God
for my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside, I brought my boat
safe to a little cove, and laid me down to take 3,
welcome repose. Whensl awoke, I was consi-
G 1
dering how I might get my boat home; and
coasting along the shore, I came to a good bay
which ran up to a rivulet or brook, where nd-
ing a safe harbour, I stowed her as safeas if
Elie had been in a dry dock made on purpose for
er.
I now perceived myself not far from the'place
where before I had travelled on foot; so taking
nothing with me, except my gun, and umbrella,
I began my journey, and in the evening came
to my bower, where I again laid me down to
rest. I had not slept long before I was awak-
ened in great surprise, by a strange voice that
called me several times, “Robin, Robin, poor
Robin! Where are you, Robinson Crusoe?
Where are you? Where have you been P”
So fast was I asleep at rst, that I did not
awake thoroughly; but half asleep and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated Robin-
son Crusoe several times, being terribly af-
frighted, I started up in the utmost confusion;
and, no sooner were my eyes fully open, but
I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the top of
the hedge, and soon knew that it was he that
called me: for just in such bewailing language
I used to talk and teach him; which he so ex-
actly learned, that he would sit upon my nger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, “ Poor
Robinson Crusoe, where are you? where have
you been? how came you here P” and such like
prattle as I had constantly taught him. But even
though I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great
while before I could convince myself; being
amazed how the creature got thither. But now.
being assured it could be none other than my
honest Poll, my wonder ceased, and ireacliing out
my hand, and familiarly calling Poll, the crea-
ture came to me, and perched upon my thumb
as he was wont, constantly pratiiig to me with,
“ Poor Robinson Crusoe, and lio\v did I come
here, and where had I been?" as if the bird was
overjoyed to see me; and so I took him home
along with me,
I was now pretty well cured of my rambling
to sea; yet I could wish my boat, which had
cost me so much trouble and pains, on this side
the island once more, but which indeed was
impracticable. I therefore began to live a very
retired life, living near a twelvemonth in a very
contented manner, wanting for nothing except
conversation. As to mechanic labors, which
my necessities obliged me to, I fancied I could,
upon occasion, make a tolerable carpenter.
Besides, as I improved in my earthenware, I
contrived to make them with a wheel, which I
found much easier and better, making my work
sha ely, which before was rude and uglv. But,
I tliink, I was never so elated with ‘my own
performance or project, than for being able to
make a tobacco~pipe, which, though it proved
an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very sound,
and carried the smoke perfectly well, to my
great satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker-ware, making me
abundance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for
holding my stores, barley, rice, and other pro-
visions.
; .
My powder beginning to fail, made me ex-
amine aftcr what manner I should kill the goats
or birds to live on after it was all gone. Upon
which, I contrived many ways to ensnare the
goats, and see if I could catch them alive, par-
ticularly a she-goat with young. At last I had
my desire; for making pitfalls and traps baited
with barley and rice, I found, one morning, in
one of them, an old he-goat; and in the other,
three kids, one male, the other two females.
So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away alive. But the other crea-
tures I bound with strings together; but I had
great difficulty before I could bring them to my
habitation. lt was some time before they would
feed; but throwing them sweet corn, it so much
tempted them, that they began to be tamer.
From thence I concluded, that if I designed to
furnish myself with goat’s-flesh, when my am-
munition was spent, the tamely breeding them
up, like a ock pf sheep, about my settlement,
was the only method I could take. I concluded
also, I must separate the wild from the tame,
or else they would always run wild as they grew
up; and the best way for this, was to have
some inclosed piece of ground well fenced, either
with a hedge or pale, to keep them so effectu-
ally, that those within might not break out, or
those without break in. Such an undertaking
was very great for one pair of hands_; but as
there was an absolute necessity for doing it.
my rst care was to nd a convenient piece of
round where there was likely to be herbage for
ighem to eat, water to drink, and cover to keep
them from the sun.
\
Ipitched upon a piece of meadow land, and
set about to enclose a piece of ground about one
hundred and fty yards in length, and» one hun-
dred in breadth, suicient enough for as many
as would maintain me till such time as my ock
increased _ _
I now vigorously prosecuted my work, and ‘It
took me about three months to nish it, m
which time I tethered the three kids in the best
part of it, feeding them as near me as possible,
to make them familiar: and indeed I very often
would carry some ears of barley or a handful of
rice, and feed them out of my hand; by Wbwll»
they grew so tame, that when my inclosure was
nished, and I had let them loose, they would
run after me for a handful of corn. This indeed
answered my end; and in a year and a half’s
time, I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids
and all; and in two years after, they amounted
to forty-three, besides what I had taken and
killed for my sustenance. After which I in-
closed ve several pieces of ground to feed them
in, with pens to drive them into, that I might
take them as I had occasion. s
In this project I likewise. found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
esh, but milk too, which in my beginning I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet, after
some essays and miscarriages, I made me both,
and never afterwards wanted. y
How mercifully can the Omnipotent Power
comfort his creatures, even in the midst of their
greatest calamities! How can be sweeten the
bitterest providcnces, and give us reason to
magnify him in dungeons and prisons! what a
bounteons table was here spread in a wilderness
for me, where I expected nothing at rst but to
perish for hunger!
Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty,
an absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom,
attended by my faithful subjects, whom, if I
pleased, I could either hang, draw, quarter,
give them liberty, or take it away. When I
dined, I seemed a king, eating alone, none
daring to presume to do so till I hail done.
Poll, as if he had been my principal court fa-
vorite, was the only person permitted to talk
with me. My old, but faithfu dog, now grown
exceedingly crazy, continually sat on my right
hand; while my two cats sat on each side of
the table, expecting a bit from my hand, as a
principal mark of my royal favor. In this plen-
tiful inanner did I live, wanting for nothing
but conversation. One thing indeed concerned
me, the want of my boat; I knew not which
way to get her round the island. One time I
resolved to go along the shore by land to her;
but had any one in England met such a gure,
ir would either have affrighted them, or made
them burst into laughter; nay, I could not but
smile to myself at my habit, which_I think
in this place will be very proper to describe. .
The cap It wore on my head, was great, high,
and shapeless, made of a goat’s skin, with a
ap hanging down behind. I had a short jacket
of goat’s skin, whose hair hung down such a
length on each side, that it reached down to
the calves of my legs. As for shoes and stock-
ings, I had none, but made a semblance of
something, I knew not what to call them; they
were made like buskins, aud laced on the sides.
I had a broad belt of goat’s skin dried, girt
round me with a couple of thoiigs, instead of
buckles; on each of which hung my hatchet
and saw, I had another belt, not so broad,
yet fastened in the same manner, which hung
over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, made of goat’s
skin to hold my powder and shot. My basket I
carried on my back, and my gun on my shoul-
der; and over my head a great clumsy ugly
.goat’s skin umbrella. At one time my beard
grew so long that it hung down about a quarter
of a yard; but as I had both razors and scissors
in store, I cut it all oil‘, and suffered none to
grow, except a pair of Malioinetan whiskers,
of such a monstrous size, as would have amazed
any in England to have seen.
Butiall this was of no consequence here, there
being none to observe my behaviour or habit.
And so, without fear and without control, I
proceeded on my journey, which took me up
ve or six days. I rst travelled along the sea
shore, directly to the place where I rst brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks;
I went to the same height that I was before up-
on; when looking forward to the point of the
rock, which lay out, and which I was forced to
double with my boat, I was amazed to see the
sea so smooth and quiet, there being no rippling
motion, nor current, any more than in other
places. And now I was convinced, that, by
observing the ebbing and owing of the tide, I
might easily bring my boat round the island
again. But when I began to think of putting
it in practice, the remembrance of the late dan-
ger struck me with such horror, that I changed
my resolution, and formed another, which was
to make another canoe, and so have one for one
side of the island, and one for the other.
I had now two plantations -in the island; the
rst my little fortication, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements; for by
this time I had enlarged the cave behind me
with several little caves, one within another, to
hold my baskets, corn, and straw. The piles
with which I made my wall, were grown so lof-
ty and great, as obscured my habitation. And
near this commodious and pleasant settlement,
lay my well-cultivated and improved corn-elds.
My second plantation was that near my country
seat, or little bower, where my grapes ourished,
and where, having planted many stakes, I
made inclosures for my goats, so strongly for-
tied by labour and time, that it was much
stronger than a wall, and consequently impos-
sible for them to break through. As for my
bower itself, I kept it constantly in repair, and
cut the trees in such a manner, as made them
grow thick and wild, and form a most delightful
shade. -In the centre of this stood my tent,
thus erected: I had driven four piles in the
ground, spreading ever it ta piece of the ship’s
sail; beneath which I madea sort of a couch
with the skins of the creatures I had slain»
and other things; and having laid thereon one
of the sailor’s blankets, which I had saved from
I
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself with
a great watch-coat, I took this place for my
country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I
use to visit my boat, and keep her in very good
order. And sometimes I would venture in her
a cast or two from the shore, but no farther.
But now I entreat your attention, whilst I pro-
ceed to inform you of a new, but most sur-
prising scene of life, which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that after. having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature. One
day it happened that, going to my boat, I saw
the print of a inaii’s naked foot on the shore,
vcryjevident on the sand, as the toes, heel, and
every part of it.—Had I seen a monster of the
most frightful shape; I could not have been
more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast my eyes around, but
could satisfy neither the one nor the other. I
proceeded alternately to every part of the shore,
but with equal effect; neither could 1 see any
other mark. Thus struck with confusion and
horror, l returned to my habitation, frightened
at every bush and tree, taking every thing for
men; and possessed with the wildest ideas:
that night my eyes never closed. I formed
nothing but the most dismal imaginations; for
how could any mortal come to this island?
where was the ship that transported them? and
what signs of any other footsteps? Surely, said
I to myself, it must be some dangerous crea-
lure, some wild savage of the main land Over
against me. that, venturing too far Kin thg
H
ocean, has been driven here, either by the vio-
lent currents or contrary winds; and not caring
to stay on this desolate island, has gone back
to sea again.
What various chains of Providence are there
in the life of man! How changeable are our
affections according to different circumstances!
We love to-day what we hate to-morrow; we
shun one hour what we seek the next. This
was evident in me in the most conspicuous
nia-nner: for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition in being banished from all
humankind, was now even ready to expire,
when Iconsidered that a man had set his foot
on this desolate island. But when I considered
my station of life decreed by the innitely wise
and good providence of God, thatl ought not
to dispute my Creator’s sovereignty, who has
an undoubted right to govern and dispose of his
creatures as lie thinks convenient; and that his
justice and mercy could either punish or deliver
me-: :I say, when I considered all this, I com-
fortably found it my duty to trust sincerely in
him, pray ardently to him, and humbly resign
myself to his divine will.
And now alter three days of apprehension
and fear, I at last ventiired out of my castle,
and milked my goats, one of which was almost
spoiled for want of it. I next (though in great
fear) visited my bower, and milked my ocks
there also; when growing bolder, I went down
to the shore again, and measuring the print of
the -foot to mine, to see, perhaps whether I
myself had not occasioned that mark, I found
it m’uch superior in largeness; and so returned
-
home now absolutely convinced that either some
men had been ashore, or that the island must
he inhabited; and I now" began to think of pro-
viding for my security, and resolved in my mind
many different schemes for that purpose. I
rst proposed to cut down my inclosures, and
turn my tame cattle wild into the woods, that
the enemy might not nd them, and frequent
the island in hopes of killing the same. Se-
condly, I was for digging up my corn-elds for
the very same reason. And, lastly, I concluded
to demolish my bower, lest, seeing a place of
human coiitrivance, they might come farther,
and nd out and attack me in my little castle.
Such notions did the fear of danger suggest
to me: that though a little before, I had entirely
resigned myself to the will of God, I now had
little condence in him, fearing those more who
could kill this fading body, than him who could
destroy my immortal soul. I
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that
night; yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to
a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I considered that this
delightful and pleasant island mightrnot be so
entirely forsaken as I might think; but that
the inhabitants from the other shore might-sail,
either with a design or from necessity, by cross
winds; and, if the latter circnmstance,»I had
reason to believe they would depart the rst
opportunity. However, my fear made me think
of a place for at retreat upon an attack. I now
repented that I had made my door to ‘come out
beyond my- fortication; to remedy which I re-
solved to make me a second one: I fellto work,
therefore, and drove betwixt that and the double
rows of trees, which I planted above twelve
years before, several strong piles, thickening
it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth which I
dug out of the cave; I also made me seven
holes, wherein ‘I planted my muskets like can-
non, tting them into frames resembling car-
riages. This being nished, for a great way
every where, I planted sticks of osiers likea
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving
7a large space between them and my wall that I
‘might have room ,to see an enemy, and that
they might not beysheltered among the young
trees, if they“o'ered to approach the outer
wall.---And, indeed, scarce two years had ‘pas-
sed over my~head,~. when there appeared a lovely
shady grove, and in six years it became a thick
wood, perfectly impassable. For my safety, I
left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which
I set two ladders, one to a part of a rock which
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when I
took these down, it was impossible for any man
to descend without hurting himself; and if he
did, he would still be at the outside of my outer
wall.--But while I took all these measures of
human prudence for my own preservation, I was
not altogether unmindful of other affairs. ’To
serve my stock of tame goats, that the enemy
should nottake all at once, I looked out for the
most retired part of the island, which was the
place where I lost myself before-mentioned‘, gnd
there nding a clear piece of land, containing
three acres, surrounded with thick woods, 1
t
wrought so hard, that in less than a .inonlli’s»
tiine,'l fenced it so well round, that my ocks
were very well secured in it, and put tliérein
two he-goats and ten she-goats.
All this labour was occasioned by seeing the
print of a man’s foot.--And not contented yet
with what I had done, I searched for another
place towards. the west point of the island,
where I might also retain another ock. Then
wandering on this errand more to the west of
the island than ever I had yet done, and casting
my eyes towards the sea, methought I perceived
a boat at a great distance, but could not possi-
bly tell what it was for want of my perspective
glass. I considered then it was no strange
thing to see the print of a man’s foot; and con-
cluding tliein cannibals, blessed God for being
cast on the other side of the island, where none
of the savages, asI thought, ever came. But
when I came down the hill to the shore, which
was the S. W. point of the island, I was soon
conrmed in my opinion; nor can any one de-
scribe my liorror and amazement, when Isaw
the ground strewed with skulls, hands, feet,
and bones of human bodies; and particularly
I perceived a space like a circle, in the midst of
which had been a re, about which I eon‘ec
J K-
tured these wretches sat and unnaturally sacri-
 I
ced and devoured their fellow-creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful spectacle confounded my senses; and made
me return towards my habitation: in my jway
lllltlltifi Shedding oods of tears, and falling
down on_ my bended knees, I gave God thanks
for making my rnaturg contrary to these.
H
wretches, and delivering me so long out of
their hands.
At last reason and my long residence here as-
sured me, that these savages never came up to
the thick woody part of the country, and-that
I had no reason to be apprehensive of a dis--
covery; and in process of time my dreadful ap-»
prehensions began to wear away.
For three years after this, my circumstances
for some time remained very calm and undis-
turbed; and when I compared my condition to
others, I found it far from being miserable.
I wanted but few things. Indeed, the terror
which the savages had put me in, spoiled some
inventions for my own conveniences. One of
my projects was to brew me some beer; a very
whimsical one indeed, when it is considered that
I had neither casks sufficient to preserve it in,.
hops to make it keep, yeast to make it work,
nor a copper or kettle to boil it in. Perhaps,
indeed, after some years I might bring this to
bear, as ‘I had done other things. But now
my inventions were placed another way; and
day and night I could think of nothing but bow
I might destroy some of those caimibals, when
proceeding to their bloody entertainments; and
so saving a victim from being sacriced, that
he might after become my servant. I had con-
trived several stratagems to put my plan in exe-
cution; bnt time not seconding my views, and
having leisure for reection, I began to think
what right I‘ had to take away the life of any
one, be he black pr white, whofhad never of-
fended me; besides, I now argued withmyself,
it was better for me never to attack, , but to re~
main undiscovered as long as I possibly could;
that an opposite conduct would certainly prove
destructive; for as it was scarcely to be sup-
posed I could kill them all, I might either be
overpowered by the remaining, or that some
escaping, might bring thousands, to my certain
destruction.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had
rashly begun, I never ascended the hill on that
occasion afterwards: I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every thing that belonged to her, towards the
east, into a little cove, that there might not be
the least shadow of any boat near, or habita-
tion upon the island.--My castle then became
my cell, keeping alwaysrretired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, and
order my little ock in the wood, which was
quite out of danger; for sure I was, that
these savages never came here with expectations
to find any thing, and consequently never wan-
dered from the coast: however, as they might
have been several times on shore, as well before
as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
hack with horror to think in what state I might
have been, had I suddenly met them slenderly
armed, with one gun only loaded with small
shot; and how great would have been my
amazement, if, instead of one man’s foot, I
had_ perceived fteen or twenty savages, who
haying once set their eyes upon me, by the
swiftness of their feet, would have left me no
possibility of escaping; these thoughts would
sink my very soul, so that I'would fall intoa
deep melancholy, _ till such time -as t-he consi-
deration of my gratitude to the Divine Being
moved it from my heart. I then fell into a
contemplation of the sacred springs of Provi-
dence, and how wonderfully we are delivered,
when insensible of it; and when extricated in
uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or hesi-
tation, what secret hints direct us in the right
way, when we intended to go out of it; nay,
perhaps contrary to our business, sense, or in-
chnaon.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation or
convenience. I now cared not to drive a nail,
chop a stick, -re a gun, or make a re, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke
discover me. And on this account I used to
burn my earthenware privately in a cave which
I found in the wood, and which I made conve-
nient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that
I might bake and dress my bread and meat
without any danger. At that time a curious
accident happened me, which I shall now re-
latc:—
While I was cutting down some wood for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity be-
hind a very thick branch of underwood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in. But when I had entered, and took a
further view, two rolling shining eyes, like am-
ing stars, seemed to dart themselves at me; so
that I made all the haste out that I could, as
not knowing what monster had taken .his resi-
dence in that place. When l recovered a little
from my surprise, I called myself a thousand
fools, and resuming all the courage I had, I
took a aming rebrand, and rushed in again. I
had not proceeded above three steps, when I
was more affrighted than before; for then I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human
creature in the greatest agony, succeeded with
a broken noise, resembling words half expressed
and then a broken sigh again. Stepping back,
Lord! (thought Ito myself) where am I got!
and indeed, in such greatamazement was I,
that it struck me into a cold sweat; and had my
hat been on my head, I believe my hair would
have moved ito‘. But again encouraging my»
self, I proceeded forward, and by _the light of
my rebrand, perceived it to be a monstrous he
goat, lying on the ground gasping for life, and
dying of mere old age. At rst I stirred him,
thinking to drive him out, and the poor ancient
creature strove to get upon his feet, but was not
able: so I e’en let him lie still to alfriglit the
savages, should they venture into this cave. I
now looked round me and found the place but
small_and shapeless. At the farther side of it, I
perceived a sort of an entrance, yet so low, it
must oblige me to creep upon my hands and
knees to it; so, having no candle, I suspended
my enterprize till the next day, and then I
came provided with two large ones of my own
making.
Hvmg crept upon my hands and feet through
lls Strait, I found the roof higher up, I think
about twenty feet. But surely never mortal saw
Such a glrlous sight before! the roof and walls
82 noamsos eaosor..
of this cave reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles, as though they
were indented with shining gold, precious stones,
or sparkling diamonds. 'l'he floor was dry and
leve . and had a kind of gravel upon it; no ve-
nemous creatures to be seen there, neither any
damp or wet about it, I could find no fault but
in the entrance, and I began to think that even
this might he very necessary for my defence,
and I therefore resolved to make it my principal
magazine. I brought hither two fowling-pieces,
and three muskets, ‘leaving only ve pieces at
my castle, planted in the nature of cannon.
Of the barrel of gunpowder which I took up
out of the sea, I brought away about sixty
pounds of good powder, which was not damaged;
this, with a great quantity of lead for bullets, I
removed from my castle to this retreat, now for-
tied both by art and nature. And nowl de-
spised both the cunning and strength of the sa-
vages, either to nd meout or to hurt me.
I think I now was in the twenty third year of
my reign, and my thoughts much easier than
formerly, having contrived several pretty amuse-
ments and diversions to pass away the time in
a pleasant manner. By this time my pretty
Poll had learned to speak English, and pro-
nounce his words very articulately and plain; so
that for many hours we used to chat together
after a familiar manner, and he lived with me
no less than twenty-six years. My dog, which
was nineteen years old, sixteen of which hf!
lived with me, died some time ago of mere old
age.“ As for my cats, they multiplied so fast,
that I was forced to kill or drive them into the
xv
woods, except two or three, which became my fa-
vorites. Beside these, I continually kept two or
three household kids about me, which I learned
to feed out of my hand, and two more parrots
which could talk indilferently, and call Robinson
Crusoe, but not so excellently as the rst, as
not taking that pains with them. I had also
several sea-fowls which I had wounded and cut
their wings; and growing tame, they used to
breed among the low trees about my ca.stle-walls,
all which made my abode very agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy
the enjoyment of this uncertain state of life,
when we least expect them! it was now the
month of December, in ,the southern solstice,
and particular time of my harvest, which re-
quired my attendance in the elds; when going
out pretty early one morning, before it was day-
light, there appeared to me from the sea-shore,
a aming light, about two miles from me at the
east end of the island, where I had observed
some savages had been before, not on the other
side, but to my great aiiction, it was on my
side of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
apprehensions, that the savages would perceive
my improvements, I returned directly to my
castle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild. and natural as I possibly
could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded my muskets and pis-
IP18, and committing myself to God’s protec-
U0", I resolved to defend myself till my last
breath. Two hours after, impatient for“intel-
lissncc, I Set my ladder up to the side of the
hill, where there was a at place, and then pull.
ing the ladder after inc, ascended to tlm lop
where laying myself on my belly, with my per:
spective glass, I perceived no less than nine
naked savages, sitting round a small re, eating
as I supposed, human esh, with their two ca-
noes hauled on shore, waiting for the ood to
carry them off again. Great was my consterna-
tion at this sight, especially seeing them near
me; but when I perceived their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I became
more easy in my thoughts, being fully con-
vincedthat I might go abroad with security all
the time of ood, ifthcy were uot before landed.
And, indeed, this proved just as I imagined;
for no sooner did they all take boat and paddle
away, but the tide made N. W. When I saw
them gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders,
and placing acouple of pistols in my belt, with
my great sword hanging by my side, I went to
the hill, where I at rst made a discovery of
l cannibals, and then saw there had been
t iese
three canoes more of the savages on shore at
k
that place, which with the rest were ITl&'Ihg
over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me,
when, going to the place of sacrice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of human
bodies appeared in my sight; and so red was I
' h indi nation, that I was fully resolved to
wit g
be revenged on the rst that came there, though
I lost my life in the execution. It then appeared
to me that the visits which they make to this
‘l d, are not very frequent, it being fteen
is an
months before they came again: but still I was
very uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehen-
sions of their surprising me unawares; nor dare
I offer to re a gun on that side of the island
where they used to appear, lest, taking the
alarm, the savages might return with many
hundred canoes, and then God knows in what
manner I should have made my end. Thus was
I a year or more before I saw any of these de-
vouring cannibals again.
But to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while eluded the
force of my thoughts in reveuging myself on
these heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my wooden
calendar) the wind blew exceedingly hard, ac-
companied with abundance of lightning and
thunder all day, and succeeded by a very stormy
night. The seeming anger of the Heavens
made me have recourse to my bible. Whilst I
was seriously pondering upon it, I was suddenly
alarmed with the noise of agun, which Icon-
jectured was red upon the ocean. Such an un-
usual surprise ma e me start up in a minute,
when, with my ladder, ascending the hill as be-
fore, that very moment a ash of re prcsaged
the report of another gun, which I presently
heard, and found it was from that. part of the
sea where the current drove me away. I could
not but then think, that this must be a ship in
distress, and that these were melancholy signals
for a speedy deliverance. Great, indeed, was
my sorrow upon this occasion; but my labours
to assist them must have proved altogether vain
and fruitless. However, as soon as the light
dawned, I went up to the hill, where I perceived
1
something a great way at sea directly E. but
could not distinguish what it was, even with my
glass, by reason the weather was so very foggy
out at sea. However, keeping my eyes directly
xed upon it, and perceiving it did not stir, I
presently concluded it must be a shipyat anchor,
and so very hastyl was to be satised, that
taking the gun, I went to the S. E. part of
the island, to the same rocks where I had been
formerly drove away by the current: in which
time the weather being perfectly cleared up, to
my great sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a
ship cast away upon those hidden rocks I found
when I was outwith my boat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion of
my preservation.
When I considered seriously every thing con-
cerning this wreck, and could perceive no room
to suppose any of them saved, I cannot explain,
by any possible force of words, what longings
my soul felt on this occasion, often breaking
out in this manner: “ O that there had been
but two or three, nay, even one person saved,
that we might have lived together, conversed
with, and comforted one another!” and so much
were my desires moved, that when I repeated
these words, “ Oh' that there had been but
one!” my hand would clench together, and my
ngers would press the palms of my hands so
close, that, had any soft thing been between,
it would have crushed it involuntarily, while my
teeth would strike together, and set against
each other so strong, that it required some time
for me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island.
\
aomsson cnesort. 87
I never knew whether or not any had been
saved out of this ship. I had the aflliction,
some time after, to see the corpse of a drowned
hoy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing on him but a sea|nan’s waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what na-
tion he was of. In his pocket were two pieces
of eight, and a tobacco-pipe, the last of which
I preferred much more than I did the rst. And
now the calmness of the sea tempted me to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not only to
get something necessary out of the ship, but
perhaps some living creature might be on hoard,
whose life I might preserve. This had such an
influence upon my mind, that immediately I
went home, and preparing every thing necessary
for the voyage, in two hours time I came
up to the wreck, which appeared to me a most
melancholy sight. It seemed to he aSpanish
vessel by its building, stuck fast between two
rocks; her stern and quarter beaten to pieces by
the sea ; her mainmast and foremast were brought
oll' by the board, thatis, broken oil‘ short. As
I approached near, I perceived a dog on hoard,
who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and
no sooner did l call him, but the poor creature
jumped into the sea, out of which I took him
up, almost famished with hunger and thirst; so
that when I gave him a cake of bread, no ra-
venous wolf could devour it more greedily; and
he drank to that degree of fresh water, that he
would have burst himself, had I suffered him.
The rst sight] met with in the ship, were
two men drowned in the forecastle, inclosed in
one anotl-1er’s arms; hence I very probably sup-
posed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in
and over her, that the men, not being able to
bear it, were strangled by the constant rushing
in of the waves. There were several casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy, _I could not be
positive, which lay in the lower hold, as were
plainly perceptible by the ebbing out of the wa-
ter, yet were too large for me to pretend to
meddle with; likewise I perceived several chests,
which I supposed to belong to the seamen, two
of which I got into my boat, without examining
what was in them._ What became of the rest of
the sailors, I could not tell. V
Searching further, I found a cask, contain-
ing about twentysgallons, full of liquor, which,
with some labour I got into my boat; in her
cabin were several muskets, which I let remain
there, but took away with me argreat powder-
horn, withabout four pounds of powder in it,
I took also a re-shovel and tongs, two brass
kettles, a copper pot ,to make chocolate, and a
gridiron; all which were extremely necessary to
me, especially the re-shovel and tongs. And
with this cargo, accompanied with my dog,
I came away, the tide serving for that purpose;
and the same evening. about an hour wlthm
night, I, attained the island, after the greatest
toil and fatigue imaginable. _ .
' That night I reposed my weary limbs in the
boat, resolving the next morning to carry what
I had gotten to my castle. Having refreshed
myself and got all my effects on show, l"°~‘t
4
proceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not of a very good sort. At
the opening of the chest, several things alppearcd
very useful to me, for instance, I foun in one
a very fine case of bottles, containing the nest
and best sorts of cordial waters; each bottle
held about three pints, curiously tipt with silver.
I found also two pots full of the choicest sweet-
meats, and two more which the water had ut-
terly spoiled. There were likewisc several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about
one dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and colored neckcloths, the former of
which were absolutely necessary for wiping my
face, in ahot day; and, in the till, I found
three bags of pieces of eight, about eleven hun-
dred in all, in one of which, decently wrapped
up in a(piece of paper, were six doubloons of
gold, an some small bars and wedges of the
same metal, which I believe might weigh near
a pound. In the other chest, which I guessed
to belong to the gunner’s mate, by the mean
circumstances which attended it, I found only
some clothes of very little value, except about
two pounds of ne glazed powder, Ill three
asks, kept, as I believe, for charging their
fowling-pieces on any occasion. I also found in
one of the seamen’s chests about fty pieces of
eight in royals, but no gold; so concluded
that what I took from the rst belonged to an
otcer, the latter appearing to have a much
inferior person for its owner. However, de-
spicable as the money seemed, I likewise lugged
it to my cave, laying it grip securely as I did the
1
1
rest of my cargo; and after I had done all this,
I returned back to my boat, rowing and pad-
dling her along till I came to my old harbour,
where I carefully laid her up, and so made the
best of my way to my castle. When I arrived
there, every thing seemed safe and quiet; so that
now my only business was to repose myself after
my wonted manner, and take care of my do-
mestic affairs. But though I might have lived
very easy} as wanting nothing absolutely need-
ful, yet still I was more vigilant than usual
upon account of the savages, never going much
abroad; or if Idid, it was to the east part of
the island, where I was well assured that the
savages never came, and where I might not be
troubled to" carry that heavy load of weapons for
my defence, as I was obliged to do if I went the
other way.
Three years more did I live in this anxious con-
dition, in all which time, contrary to my former
resolutions, my head was lled with nothing but
projects and designs, how I might escape from
this island; when one morning early as I was
walking out and musing, I was very much sur-
prised by seeing no less than ve canoes all on
shore together on my side the island, and the
' a es that belonged to them all landed, and
sav g \
out of my sight. Such a number of them dis-
concerted all my measures; for seeing so many
‘boats, each of which would contain six, an
etimes more I could not tell what to think
som ,
of it or how to order my measures, to attack
d u on
twenty or thirty men,‘ single-hande ; p
which much dispirited and perplexed, I_ returned‘
to my castle; which, howevefyl PH! Illa Pm“
u \\ , .
per posture for an attack, and having formerly
provided all that was necessary, was soon ready
to enter upon an engagement, should they.at-
tempt. Having waited for some time, my im-
patient temper would let me bear it no longer;
I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and as
usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at two
stages, standing, however, in such a manner,
that my head did not appear above the hill, so
that they could not easily perceive me; and here
by the assistance of my perspective glass, I ob-
served no lcss than thirty in’ number around a
re, feasting upon what meat they had dressed;
how they cooked it, or what it was, I could not
then perfectly tell; but they were all dancing
and capering about the ames, using many
frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was behold-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dreadful
tragedy, as I supposed they had done before.
It was not long before one of them fell upon the
ground, knocked down, as I suppose, with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their man-
ner; while two or three others went immediate-
ly to work cutting him open for their cookery-*,
and then fell to devour him as they had done the
former, while the last unhappy captive was left
by himself, till such time as they were ready for
him: The poor creature looked round him with
a wishful eye, trembling at the thoughts of
death; Yet, seeing himself a little atiliberty,
nature, that very moment, as it were, inspired
him with hopes of life; he started away from
\
them, and ran with incredible swiftness, along
the sands directly to that part of the coast
where mylancieiit and venerable castle stood.
_You may well imagine, I was dreadfully af-
frighted upon this occasion, when, as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. ~And now, indeed, I expected
that the worst of my fears would be fullled,
and that he would certainly y to my grove for
protection; and then, thought I, what will be-
come of me, if the savages pursue him thither,
and nd him there? However my spirits be-
ginning to recover, I still kept iipon my guard;
and I now plainly perceived there were but
three men out of the number that pursued
him. I was pleased to see with what swiftness
the poor creature ran from his pursuers, gained
so much grouiid upon them, that I plainly
perceived, could he thus hold out for half an
our there was not the least doubt but he
would save his life from the ‘power of his ene-
mics.
Between them and my castle there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with
all my effects from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if he could not
swim for ‘his escape: but soon I was out of pain
for him, when I perceived he made nothing pf
it, though at full tide, but with an intrepid
courage, spurred on by tlhe sense_of danger,
he plunged into the oo , swimming over in
about thirty strokes, and then landing, 1'3"
with the same incredible strength and swiftness
as before, When the three pursuers came i0
I
\
the creek, one of them, who I_ supposed could
could not swim, happily for his part,'returned
to his company, while the others, with equal
courage, but much less swiftness, attained the
other side, as though they were resolved never
to give over the pursuit. 'And now or never I
thought was the time for me to procure me a
companion, or assistant; and that I was de-
creed by Providence to be the instrument to
save this poor creature’s life. I immediately
took two guns, and descended my two_ladde”rs
with the greatest expedition, and getting up
again with the same haste towards the hill, I
made nearer the sea. In a word, taking a short
cut down the hill, I interposed between the
pursuers and pursued, hallooing aloud touthe
atter, who, venturing to. look back, was, no
doubt, as much terried at me as I at them.
I beckoned to him with my hand to return
back; in the mean time advancing towards the
pursuers, and rushing on the foremost,. I
knocked him down with the. stock of my piece,
and laid him at on the ground. The other
savage seeing his fellow fall, stopped as if he
had been amazed; when advancing towards
him, lcould perceive him take his bow from
his_back, and xing an arrow to it, was pre-
paring to shoot at me, but I immediately red,
and shot him dead, just as his hand was going
to draw the fatal string. All this while the
savage who had ed before, stood still, and had
the satisfaction to see his enemies killed, as
he thought, who designed to take away his life;
but so atlrlglnted was he with the re and ngjge
of my plew, that he stood, as it were, like
Lot’s wife, xed and immovable, without either
sense or motion. This obliged me to halloo to
him again, making the plaincst signs I could
to him to draw nearer. I perceived he under-
stood those tokens by his approaching to me a
little way, upon which I looked upon him with
a smiling countenance, and still beckoning to
him, at length he came close to me and kneeled
down, kissed. the? ground, laid his head upon it,
and taking me by the foot, set it upon his head;
and this, as I understood afterwards, was a
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I
took him up, and making much of him, encou-
raged him in the best manner I could.
But my work was not yet nished; for I per-
ceived the savage whom I had knocked down,
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and
began to come to himself. Upon which I
pointed to my new servant, and showed him
that his enemy was not yet expired; he spoke
some words to me, but which I could not un-
derstand, and made a motion to me to lend
him my sword,‘ which hung naked in my belt
by my side. No soon did I grant his request,
but away he ran to his enemy, and at one blow
-cut oft‘ his head. When this valorous exploit
was done, he came to me laughing, as_a token
of triumph, delivered me my sword again, with
abundance of surprising gestures, laying it, lmlg
with the bleeding and ghastly head of the In-
dian, at my feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new $8!‘-
vant conceived was the manner of my killing
the savages at such a distance, without a_ bl)"
and arrow: and such was his longing desire 10
W‘
know it, that he rst pointed to the dead car-
cass, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to him. Upon which I bade him
go, and, as well as I could, made him sensible
I granted his request. But when he came there,
how wonderfully was he struck with amazement!
he turned him on one side, then on the other,
wondering he could perceive no quantity of
blood, he bleeded inwardly; and after suici-
ently admiring the wounds the bullets had made
in his breast, he took up his bow and arrows,
and came back again, making signs to make
me understand that his design was to bury
them,‘ that they might not be seen; and which
by signs again I made him sensible I very much
approved of. Immediately he‘ fell to work, and
never was a grave-digger more dextrous in the
world than he was; for in an instant, as I might
say, he scraped a large hole in the sand with
his hands, sufiicient to bury the rst in; there
lie dragged him, and without any ceremonyihe
covered him over ; in like manner he served the
other. I then called him away, and instead of
carrying him directly to my castle at rst’ I
wnveyed him to my cave in the farther part of
the island.
dorgiggy and faint, hungry and thirsty, an-
_ y must this poor creature be, supported
chiefly by the vivacity of spirit, and uncommon
transports of joy that his deliverance occasioned
I-Iere I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
*0 at, and water to drink, on which he fed
‘"3’ vlieerfully. I then made him a convenient
ltiled witth a parcel of rice straw, and.a blanket
P911! , (H bed which I used sometimes) and
then pointing to it, made signs to him to lie
down to sleep.
Indeed he was a very comely, handsome
young fellow, extremely well made, with straight
long limbs, tall and well shaped, and about
twenty-six years of age. His countenance had
a sort of majesty in his face; and, especially
when he smiled, he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many of the blacks are,
but long and black, spreading over his shoiil-
ders. He had a high and large forehead, with
la great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not tawny, but of a bright
dun olive color. His face was round and plump,
with a small nose, a pretty small mouth, thin
lips, ne teeth, very well set, and white as
snow. In a word, such handsome features, and
exact symmetry in every part, made me con-
sider that I had saved the life of an Indian
prince.
He had not slept above an hour, when he
awaked again, and while I was milking my goats
hard by, out he runs from the cave towards me
in my inclosurc, and kneeling down on the
ground, made all the antic gestures imaginable,
to express his thankfulness to me for being his
deliverer; to conclude the last ceremony of obei-
sance, he laid down his head again on the
ground close to my foot, and set my other foot
upon his head, as he had done before, making
al the signs of subjection, servitude, and sub-
mission imaginable, and let me understand lie
would serve me as long as hisilife endured. {l5
I ur_iderst‘ood him in many things, I "made him‘
sensible I was very well pleased with him; and,
in a little time, Ibegan to speak to him, and
learn him to talk to me again. In the rst
place, I made him understand his name was
to be Friday, because it was upon that day I
saved his life; tlien_I taught him to say Master,
which I made him sensible was to be my name.
I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and
to know what they meant. I gave him some
milk in an earthen pot, making him view me
while I drank it before him, and soaked my
bread in it; I gave him a cake of bread, and
caused him likewise to soak it, to which he
readily consented, making signs of the greatest
satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there; but
no sooner did the morning light appear, than
I ordered him to arise, and come along with
me, with certain tokens that I would give him
some clothes like mine, at which he seemed
very glad, being without the least covering
wliatever.---As we passed by the place where
the two men had been interred, my man
pointed directly to their graves, showing me
tl_ie_marks that he had made to nd themagain,
giving me to understand, by signs, that he
would dig them up, and devour them. At
this I eitpressed my utmost‘ abborrence, beck-
oning with my hand to come away, which. he
did withthe greatest submission. After this I
conducted him to the top of the hill, to view if
the rest of the savages were yet remaining there;
but when It looked through my perspective-L
glass, _I could see no appearance of them, nor
of their canoes. r
K
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, ani-
mating me with courage to see this scene of bar-
barity, I took my man Friday with me, putting
a sword into his hand, with the bow and arrows
at his back, which I perceived he could use
very dextrously, causing him to carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself; and thus equipped
against all attacks, away we marched directly
to the place of their bloody entertainment But
when I came there, I was struck with the ut-
most\horror.—Here lay several human bones,
and there several pieces of esh, half eaten,
mangled, and scorched. As I was musing on
this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself; that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in the
just defence of whom he was taken prisoner,
with many others, all of these were carried off
to different places to be devoured by their con-
querors: aud that it was his misfortune to be
brought thither by these wretches for the same
purpose.
After I was made sensible of these things, I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together upon a heap, whichl
ordered to be set on re and burn them to ashes;
my man, however, still retained the nature Of
a cannibal, having a hankering stomach after
some of the esh; but such an extreme abhor-
rence did I express at the least appearance ffl»
that he durst not but conceal it; for I made him
i
very sensible, that if he offered any such thing,
1 would certainly shoot him.
This being done, l took my man to my castle
and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I
had taken out of the poor gunner’s chest before-
inentioned; and which tted him very Well! I11
the next place I made him a jerkin of goat's
skin, such as my skill was able to manage, and
indeed 1 thought myself then a tolerahly good
tailor. l gave him also a cap which I made of a
hare’s skin, very convenient and fasliionable.-
'l‘lius being clothed tolerahly well, my man was
no less proud of his habit, than I was at seeing
him in it. Indeed he went very awkwardly at
rst, but by using himself to them, at length
he took to them very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge
him: and be. perfectly easy myself. I erected a
tent for him in the vacant place between m two
. . Y
fortifications, and, as there was an entrance or
d ' t
cor in o my cave, I made a framed door-case,
and a door to open on the inside; I barred it u
. . . P
in the night time, taking in my ladders too, so
that was m " '
, y man to prove treacherous, there
could he no way to come at me in the inside of
my innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs waken
"195 R114 $18 to my weapons, every night I took
them all to my bed-side. ~
But UIBTB Was no occasion for this precaution;
I"? surely "W9? master had a more sincere,
lllllll, and loving servant than Friday proved
to ine. Without passion, sullenness, or design,
Petfeclly Qbllgig and engaging, his affections
were as much tied to me,- as those of a child
to its parents; and I might venture to say, he
would have sacriced his life for the saving mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever.
I had not been above two or three days re-
turned to my castle, but my chief design was,
how I should bring Friday off from this horrid
sway of feeding; and to take from him that in-
human relish he by nature had been accustomed
to, I thought it my duty to let him taste other
esh, which might the rather tempt him to the
same abhorrence I so often expressed against
their accursed way of living. Accordingly, one
morning I took him out with me, with an inten-
tion to kill a kid out of the ock and bring it
home, and dress it. As I was going, I perceived
a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her.--Immediately I
patched hold of my man Friday, and bidding
him stand still, and not stir, I presented my
piece, and shot one of the kids. My poor ser-
vant, who at a distance perceived me kill his ad-
versary, and yet did not know by what means,
or how it was done, stood trembling and sur-
prised, andilooked so amazed, that I thought
he would have sunk into the earth. He did not
see the kid I aimed at, but ripped up his waist-
coat to see if he was not wounded, thinking my
resolution was to kill him.
I was much concerned to see him in that_con-
dition, and to convince him that I would do him
no harm, I took him smiling by the hand, and
pointing to the kid which I had slain, niafle
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he did-
NQ 1988» curious was he in viewing how the crea-
ture was killed, than he had been before in b6-
holding the Indian; which, while ll€dWt1S admip
ing at, I CllttI‘"'O(l my cun_ 11011111, an present_y
perceived a piiirot, pecicliing: upon a tree within
shot; and therefore, to let Friday understand
whatl was going to do, I called him to me again,
and pointing at the tree, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly
I tired, and bade hfinlillgok, whgn iinrr;ediattelyi'
ie sawtie parrot a own. "810 ie s oo
like one amazed, notwithstandingoall I had said
to him: and the more confounded he was, be-
cause he did not perceive me put any thing into
my gun. As for the gun in particular, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after.
but would come and communicate his thoughts
to it, and talk to it, as if the senseless piece had
understood and answered him; all this I could
perceive him do, when he thought my back was
turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire
it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to under-
stand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor
haulk his comical gestures, but when his asto-
nishment wasa little over, I made tokens to
hian to run and fetch the parrot I had shot;
w icli accordingly he did. We now returned
homeward with the kid, and the same evening
took oil‘ the skin and part of the esh I stewed
and boiled in apdt I had for this purpose. And
then spreading my table, I sat down, giving my
mlan gpnie (if it to eat, ‘who was wonderfully
p eas , ani seemed to ike it very well' but
what was the most surprising to me was t’o see
him eat no salt with it, I then put a little into
his mouthg but he seemed to nauseate in such a.
3
manner, as to spit and splutter at it, and then
washed his mouth with fresh water.
~ Thus having fed him suicicntly with boiled
meat and broth at that time, the next day I
was resolved to feast him with a roasted piece of
the kid. And having no spit to fasten it, I made
use of that common artice which many of
the gipseys of England have, that is, to set two
poles upon each side of the re, and one across
on the top, hanging the meat thereon with a
string, and so turning round continually, roast
it. This practice caused great admiration in
my man Friday, being quite another way than
that to which the savages were accustomed.
But when he came. to taste the sweetness and
tenderness of the esh, he expressed his entire
satisfaction above a thousand different ways.
And as I could not but understand his meaning,
you may be sure I was as wonderfully pleased,
especially when he made it also very plain to me,
thatvheywould never, while he lived, eat man’s
esh mbre.
It was now high time I should set my servant
to work; so next day I set him to beat out some
corn, and sift it in the same manner as I had
done before. And really the fellow was very
quick and handy in the execution of any thing
I ordered him to go about. I made him under-
stand that it was to make bread for us to eat,
and afterwards let him see me make it. In short,
he did every thing as I ordered him, and in a
little time as well as I could perform it myself."
But now considering that I had two mouths
to feed instead of one, it was necessary thatl
must provide more ground for my harvest, and
plant a larger quantity of corn than I commonly
used to do; upon which I marked out a larger
piece of land, fencing it in, in the same manner
as I had done before; in the execution of which
I must give Friday this good word, that no man
could work more hardy, or with better will than
he did; and when I made him sensible that it
was for bread to serve him as well as me, he
then very passionately made me understand,
that he tho.-ight I had much more labour on his
account, than I had for myself; and that no
pains or diligence should be wanting in him, if
I would but direct him in those works wherein
he might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant. year I ever heard in the island; for aft-
ter some time, Friday began to talk pretty well,
and understand the names of those things which
I was wont to call for, and the places where
I used to send him. So that my long silent
tongue, which had been useless so many years,
except in praying to God, or conversing with
my parrot, now began to be occupied in teaching
and talking to my man Friday; for I had such
a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself, so
innocent did his simple and unfeigned honesty
appear more and more to me every day, that
I really began entirely to love him; and for
his part, I believe there was no love lost, and
that his nature had been more charmed by this
exceeding kindness, and his affections more
placed upon me, than any other object whatso-
ever among his own countrymen.
I 01108 llfid it great mind to try if he had any
hankering inclination to his own country again;
and by this time having learned the English so
well that he could give me tolerable answers to
any question which I demanded, I asked him
whether that nation to which he belonged, over
conquered in battle? the question made Friday
to smile, and to which he answered, “ Yes, yes,
we always ght the better ;” as much as to say
they always got the better in ght. Upon which
we proceeded on the following discourse: You
say, said I, that you always ght‘ the better;
why, then, Friday, how came you to be taken
prisoner? ‘I
Friday. They more many mans than my
nation in the place where me was; they take
one, two, three, and me: my nation much
over beat them in the yonder place where me
no was, there my nation mans beat one, two,
three, great tousand.
Master. ’Tis very well, Friday; but what
does your nation do with the prisoners they
rake? do‘ they carry them away and eat them,
as these have done? ~
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eats mans too,
eat up all.
. jldaster. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over
other place.
llfnster. And have you been with them here,
Friday?
Friday, Yes, me been here (pointing to
the north-west of the island, being the side
where they used to land.)
Thus having gotten what account I could
from my man, lplainly understood, that he
had‘ been as bad as any of the rest of the can-
nibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the farthest
part of the island, upon the same bloody ooca-
sion as he was brought hither for; and some
time after I carried him to that place where he
pointed; and no sooner did he come there, but
re presently knew the ground, signifying to me
that he was once there when they ate up twenty
men, two women, and a young child: but as
he could not explain the number in English, he
did it by so many stones in a row, making a
sign for me to count them. ' .
My next question was, how far it was from
the island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost in the ocean? towhich he
answered there was no danger; that no canoes
were ever lost; but, that after a little way out
to the sea, there was a strong current, and a
wind always one way in the afternoon. This I
thought at rst to he no more than the sets of
the tide, of going out or coming in; but I
afterwards understood it was occasioned by the
great draught and reux of the mighty river
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf ofwhich I ima-
gined my kingdom lay; and that the land which
I perceived to the W. or N. W. must be the great
island Trinidad, on the north of. the river‘: A
thousand questions did I ask Friday, about the
"attire Of the country, the sea,‘ the inhabitants,
and what nations were nearest them; to which
questions the poor fellow declared all he knew,
Iggitytlie greatest openness and utmost sin-
l,V""» )'Q\l may be sure, this knowledge,
which thennperfeet knowledge of my man had
led me to, was very comfortable tn me, and
made me so curious as to ask him how I might
depart from this island, and get over to his
country? he told me, “ Yes, yes, I might
go in two canoes.” In two canoes, thought I,
what does the man mean? and indeed it was a
long time before I understood his meaning,
which was, that it must be a large boat as big
as two canoes, able to bear with the waves, and
not so liable to be overwhelmed as a small one
must be.
All the time since my man became so intelli-
gent as to understand and speak to me, I spared
no pains nor diligence to instruct him, according
to my poor share of knowledge in the principles
of religion. and the adoration that he ought to
pay to the True God. One time, as I very
well remember, I asked him who made him? at
rst the innocent creature did not understand
what I meant, upon which, “Friday,” said I,
“who is it that made the sea and all the world P”
and here, indeed, Idid not miss my intention;
for he told me it was Old Benamuckee, (the god
whom I suppose these savages adored) who lived
a great way beyond all. He could describe
nothing of this great person; and all that he
could say was, that he was very old, much older
than the sea and land, the moon, or the stars-
“ Friday,” said I again, “ where do the people
of your country go when they die?” he a-
swered, to Benamuckee. " What, and thostf
people that are eaten up, do they go there?’
“Benamuckee,” said he, “love ’em dearly; me
pray to Benamuckeein dc canoe, and BF"
namuckee would love me when dey eat mi? all
up‘)!
L‘
Such discourses as these had I with my man,
and in such I instructed him in the knowledge
of the true Deity. in which the directions of
God’s Holy Spirit assisted me. I lifted up my
hands to Heaven, and pointing thereto, told
him, that the grcat Maker of heaven and earth
lived there; that he was oinnipotent, could do
everything for us, give every thing to us, and
take every thing away from us; that he was a
rewarder of good and punisher of evil actions;
that there was nothing but what he knew, no
thoughts so secret but what he could bring to
light: and thus by degrees I opened his eyes,
and described to him the manner of the creation
of the world, the transgression of our rst pa-
rents, the wickedness of God’s peculiar people,
and the universal sins and abominations of the
whole earth.--When these things were implanted
in his mind, I entered into a long discourse upon
the subject of the world’s redemption by our
blessed Saviour; how he took upon himself our
nature. and to save us from the dreadful effects
of our own disobedience, suffered the dreadful
death of crucixion. I then descanted on the
doctrine of repentance from Heaven, together
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer.
God knows, I had more sincerity than kiiow-
ledge inall the ways I took for the poor Indian’s
instruction; and I must acknowledge, what I be-
lieve every body that acts upon the same priuoi-
pie will find, that in laying heavenly truths open
efore hiin, I informed and instructed myself in
many things what either I did not know, or had
not perfectly considered before; so that,~how-
ever this poor creature might be improved by
. 1 .
inyinstructions, certain it is, that I myself had
great reason to be thankful to Providence for
sending him tome. His company allaycd my
grief, and made my habitation comfortable; and
when I reflected that the solitary life to which I
had been so long conned, had made me to
look further towards Heaven, by making me
the instrument, under Providence, to save the
life, and, for aughtl knew, the soul of this
poor savage. by bringing him to the knowledge
of Jesus Christ, it caused a secret joy to spread
through every part of my soul; and I frequent-
ly rejoiced, that ever I was brought to this place
which Ionce thought the most miserable part
of the world.
" In this thankful frame of mind did I after-
wards continue, while I abode on the island,
and-for three years did my man and I live in the
greatest enjoyment of happiness. Indeed, I
believe the savage was as good a Christian as I;
and I hope we were equally enitent; and such
penitents as were comforted) and restored by
God’s Holy Spirit; for now we had the word of
the Lord to instruct us in the right way, as
much as if we had been on the English shore.
You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and I be-
came most intimately acquainted, and that there
was but very little that I could say but what
Friday understood; and indeed he spoke very
uently, though it was but broken English. I
nowitook a particular pleasure in relating all my
adventures, especially those that occurred sinv‘
my being cast on this island. I made him 1111'
derstand that wonderful" mystery, as he con-
i
ceived, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him
how to shoot. _ ' _
I next gave him a very particular descrip-
tion of the territories of Europe, and in a par-
ticular manner, of Old England, the Flaw Of
my nativity. I laid before him the manner of
our worshipping God, our behaviour one to ano-
ther, and how we trade in ships to every part of
the universe: I then told him my misfortunes
in being shi wrecked, showing, as near as I
could, the ilace where the ship lay, which had
been gone long before; and I brought him to
the ruins of my boat, which before my whole
strength could not move, but now was almost
rotten and fallen to pieces. I I observed my man
Friday to view thisboat with an uncommon cu-
riosity: which when he had done, he stood
pondering a great while, and said nothing. At
ast, said I, Friday, what makes you ponder so
much? he replied, “ O master, me see like boat
come to place at my nation.”
It was some time indeed, before I understood
what my man meant; but examining strictly in-~
to it, I plainly found, that such another boat
resembling mine, had come upon the country
where he dwelt; that is to say, by his farther
explanation, that the boat was driven there
through stress of weather.
Indeed) Friday answered my demands very
well, making every thing very plain to my lln-
dei-standing; but beyond measure was I satis-
ed, when he told me with great warmth and
§I"l¢:‘l}P,”“ O master, we save white‘ mans {mm
‘iv o 0 u n
0 "a 1111011 which I immediately asked him
Q )
if there were any white mans, as he called them,
L
in lll llill-P “ ‘HIS, yes,” Said he, u the boat
full, very full of white mans.” How many,
Friday P said I. I-Iereupon he numbered his n-
gers, and counted seventeen. And w hen I asked
him what became of them all, and whether they
lived or not? he replied, “Yes, master, they
all live, they he live among my nation.” This
information put fresh thoughts into my head,
that those must he those very men whg lmfom I
concluded had been swallowed up in the ocean,
after they had left the ship, that had struck up-
on the rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping
the fury of the deep, landed upon the wild shore,
and committed themselves to the mercy of the
devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
created in me a great anxiety, and made me still
more curious to ask Friday concerning them.
He told me, he was sure they lived there, having
resided among them above four years, and that
the savages gave them victuals to live upon; but
pray, Friday, said I, whence proceeded all this
good-nature and generosity? how came it to
pass that they did not kill and eat them, to
please their devouring appetites, and occasion so
splendid an entertainment among them? “No,
no,” said Friday, “they not kill ’em, they
make brothers with ’em; My nation no eat
‘mans‘,_'but 'whe'n mans make war ght:” As
though ‘he had said that neither those of his
kingdom, nor any other nation that he knew
of, ever ate their fellow creatures, but such as
their law of arms allowed to be devoured; that
‘is, those miserable captives, whose misfortune
it should be to be made prisoners of war.
iionisson eiwsoiz. lll
Seine considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant day, iii most serene wcatlier, mY ma“
and I stood upon the top of a hill, on the cast
side of the island, whence I had Olwv l1@f°">
beheld the continent of America. 1 Cllld "Oil
tell immediately what was the matter: for sud_-
denly Friday fell ajuiiiping and dancing as if
he had been mad; and upon iny demanding the
reason of his behaviour, “ O joy,” said he, f‘ O
glad! there see my country, there my nation,
there live white mans!” And indeed such _a
rapturous sense of pleasure appeared in his
coiintciiaiice, that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a lon ring desire to be
in his country again. This made me not so well
satised with my man Friday as before: for by
this appearance, I made no dispute, but that if
he could get back thither again, he would not
only be uiiinindful of what religion I had taught
him, but likewise of the great obligation he
owed me for his wonderful deliverance; nay,
that he would not only inform his countrymen
of me, but accompany hundreds of them to my
kingdom, and make me a miserable sacrice,
like those unhappy wretclies taken in hattle..
Indeed lwas very much to blame to have
those cruel and unjust suspicions, and must free-
] .
_y‘ own I wronged the poor creature very much,
_w io was of a quite contrary temper. Andhad
ll<=.had that discerning acuteness. which many
Europeans have, he would certainly have per-
ceive my coldness and indifference, and also
havetbeen very much concerned upon that ac-
coun .
As we were walking up the same hill a day or
two after, when the weather was so hazy at sea,
that I could not perceive the continent, " Fri-
day,” said I, “ don’t you wish yourself to be in
your own country, your nation, among your old
friends and acquaintances?” “ Yes,” said he,
“ me much O glad to be at my own nation.”
“ And what would you do there, Friday P would
you turn wild again, eat man’s flesh, and be as
savage as you were formerly?” “ N o, no,” (an-
swered he full of concern, and shaking his head)
“ Friday now tell them to live good, tell them
pray God, tell them to eat corn, bread, cattle,
esh, milk, no eat man again.” “ But surely,”
replied I, “ if you should offer to do all this,
they would kill you; and eat you up when they
had done.” He then put on a grave, yet inno-
cent and smooth countenance, saying, “ No,
they no kill me, they willing love learn :” that
is, that they would be very willing to learn:
adding withall, that they had learned much of
the white bearded mans that came in the boat.
“ Will you,” said I, “ go back again, Friday?”
he smiled at that, and told me, that he could
not swim so far. “ But,” said I, “ I will make
a canoe for you.” “Yes, master,” said he,
“ me go if you go; me no go, if you stay.”
“ I go, Friday! why would you have them to
eat me up, and devour your kind master? “ N0,
no,” said he, “ me make them not eat master,
and me make them much love you;” that is,‘ he
would tell them how I had slain his enemies,
and thereby saved his life, for which reason he
would make them love me: and then he related
to me, as well as he was able, how exceedingly
kind those of his natiou were to the White, 01'
bearded men, as he called them, who, in their
great calamit_v, were driven into their country.
It was from this time, indeed, Iliad strong
inclinations to venture over; and some days af-
ter, Friilay and I being at work, as usual, at
thc same time diverting ourselves with various
discourses, Itold him I had a boat which I
would give him, whenever he pleased to return
to his own nation; and to convince him of the
truth of what I said, I took him with me to the
other side of the island where my frigate lay,
and then taking it from under the water, (for I
always kept it sunk for fear of a discovery) we
went both into it to see how it would manage-
sucli an expedition.
And really never could any one be more dex-
trous in rowing than my faithful servant, mak-
ing the boat go as fast again as I could. Well,
now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to your
so much admired nation? but instead of meeting
with that cheerfulness I expected, he looked
very dull and melancholy at my saying so;
which indeed at rst surprised me, till he made
me sensible, that his concern was about the
boat being too small to go so far a voyage.
U_pon which I let him understand I had a much
bigger; and, accordingly, the next day went
to the place where the first boat lay, which I
had made, when all the strength I had, or art
I could use," failed me in my attempt to get it
into the water: but now it having lain in the
sun two-and-twenty years, and no care being
taken of it all that while, it became in a man-
ner rotten. My man told me that such a boat‘
L3
would do very well for the purpose, sufficient
to‘ carry vittle, drink, bread, for that was his
manner of talking. In short, my mind being
strongly xed upon my design of going over
with him to the continent, I'very plainly told
him that we would both go and make a boat
full as big, and more proportionable than that,
wherein he might safely return to his own na-
tion.
These words made Friday look so very pen-
sive, that I thought he would have fallen at
my feet. It was some time before he could
speak a word, which made me ask him what
was the matter with him? he replied in a very
soft and moving tone, “ What has poor Fri-day
done? why you angry?” "‘ Friday,” said I,
“you have not offended me, what makes you
think I am angry with you P” “ You no angry,
no angry,” said he several times; “ if you be
no angry, why den send Friday over great wa-
ter to my own nation?” “ Why, Friday,” an-
swered I, “did not you wish to be there, when
from a mountain, you beheld the place where
you was born? and it is to satisfy your desires
that I~ am willing to give you leave to return
thither, therefore, go your way, and leave me
alone to myself, as I was before I saved your
life.”
Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words. " Go me
away P” said he, after a long silence, “ no, I10,
Friday die, Friday live not master gone,”_ 119
though he had said, I neither can nor will llV€;
if my master sends me from him. Indeed
Friday felt for me the greatest gratitude and the
most sincere love; he found me not only his
delivcrer, but his prcserver and comforter. He
wanted for no manner of sustenance: and when
he was ill or opt of order, I was his physician,
not only for his body but his soul; and there-
fore, it was no wonder that such an innocent
creature, long since divested of his former na-
tural cruelty, should have an uncommon con-
cern at so cruel a separation from me, which
“pierced him to the very soul, and made him
desire even to die, rather than live without me.
After I had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his liberty as
soon as the boat was made, the language of
his eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
when, immediately running to one of his
hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart
so full, that he could scarcely speak.--“ Only
kill Friday,” said he, “ Friday care not live
long.” “ But what mustl kill you for?” re-
plied l. " Ah! dear master, what made you
save Friday from eat a me up, so keep long
Friday, make Friday love God, and love not
Benamuckee, and now send Friday away; never
see Friday more.” And then because he could
not expresshimself more clearly, the tears ran
down his cheeks in such a plentiful manner,
that I had much ado to refrain from weeping al-
80, when I beheld the poor creature’s affection:
so that I was forced to comfort him in the best
manner I could, which I did, by telling him, if
he was content to abide ‘with me, I should be
ever willing_to keep him. F
After Fr1day’s grief was somewhat abated,
more fully to convince me of his affection, he
said, “ O master, me not’ care to he in my na-
tion, leave you here: me desire nation learn good,
that's all;” meaning, that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people. But as ll
had no apostolic mission, nor any concern about
their salvation, so I had not the least intention
or desire of undertaking it; and the strength of
my inclination, in order to escape, proceeded
chiey from my late discourse with Friday,'
about those seventeen white bearded men, that
had been driven upon the barbarian coast, whom
l- designed to join, as the only means to further
our escape. To which intent my man and I
went to search for a proper tree to fell, whereof
we might make a large perigua, or canoe, to
undertake the voyage; and, indeed, we were
not long _in nding one t for our purpose,
there being enough of wood in the island to
have built a eet of large vessels; but the thing
we principally wanted, was to get one so near
the water, that we might launch it after it was
nished, and not commit so horrid a mistake
a,s,I had done once before.
» Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitched upon it kind of wood the msl
tting for it. 'l‘o this day I cannot tell the
name of the tree, nor describe it any other way,
than only by saying, that it is very like what
we call fustic, or between that and the Nineti-
ragua wood, being much Of the Same color
and smell. But though my man exceeded me
in my knowledge of the most pmper tree,
yet I showed him a much better and clearer
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before;
for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but I then
told him how he might do it with tools, learning
him at the same time how to use them, which
indeed he did very dextrously; so that in a
|nonth’s time we nished it, making it very hand-
some by cutting the outside in the true shape of
a boat. After this it took us a full fortnight
before we could get her into the water, which we
did as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers;
but when she was in, she would have carried
twenty men, with all the ease imaginable
As I was very well pleased, you may be sure,
at the launching of this man-of-war of mine, I
was no less amazed to behold with what dexte-
rity my man would man_age her, turn her, and
paddle her along. “ Well, Friday,” said I,
“ what do you think of it now? Do you think
this will carry us over i”’ “ Yes, master,” said
he, “ me venture over well, though great blow
wind.” But my design was yet farther, which
he was insensible of; and that was, to make a
mast and a sail, and to provide her with an
anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was no
difficult thing at all to procure: so I xed upon
a straight young cedar-tree, which I found near
the place, great plenty of it abounding in the
l8land;_ anrlsetting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to shape and
order it; but as to the sail, that I managed my-
self. _ I very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, which had lain six-
and-twenty years by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking I should 'havc'no
occasion to use them any more, when I came to
overlook them,’ I found them almost all rotten,
except two; and with these I went to work,
and after a great deal of pains and awkward te-
dious stiching for want of needles, at length I
nished a shoulder-of-mutton-sail, to go with a
boom at bottom, and a little small sprit at the top.
It was near two months, I think, before I
completed the rigging and tted my masts and
sails; and indeed they were nicely done, having
made a small stay and a sail, or a foresail
to it, to assist, if we should turn to the west-
ward; and, what is still more, I fixed a rudder
to the stern of her, to steer with; and though
I was but a very indifferent shipwright, yet as
I was. sensible of the usefulness and absolute
necessity of a thing like this, I applied myself
to it with such a constant application. that I at
last accomplished my design, but it cost me as
much pains in ordering as in making the boat.
Besides, when all this was done, I had my man
to teach navigation: for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe along, he was
an utter stranger to a sail and a rudder, and was
amazed when he saw me work the boat in the
sea, by them, and how the sail gibbed and lled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed. After some time aml a little use, I
made all these things very familiar to him, 9°
that he became an expert sailor. _
Thus entered I in the" seven-and-twentieth
year of my reign or captivity, which you please,
the last three of which were blessed with. the
company of my man Friday. I kept the anniver-
sary of my landing here, with the same thank-1
fulness to God as I did before; and certainly,
as l had great cause for a thankful acknowledg-
ment for my deliverance at rst, I had much
greater now for such singular and additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me-, in
all my distresses of both body and mind, and
the great hopes I had of being effectually and
speedily delivered.
And now the rainy season beginning to come
on, obliged me to keep the longer within doors;
but before this, I brought my new vessel into
the creek, .where I had landed my rafts from
the ship, and to keep the rain from her, we
thatched her over, as it were ‘with boughs of
trees, like a house, so we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I de-
signed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin
to draw near; but so much was I elevated with
this new-designed adventure, that I daily pre-
pared for the voyage. But one morning, as ‘I
was very busy upon something necessary for
this occasion, I called Friday to me} and bid
him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could
nd aturtle. He had not been long gone, be-
fore he came running back, as though he was
pursued for life, and as it were ew over my
outer wall or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or had no steps to set his feet on, and
before] haditime to enquire the reason of his
P"3°'P1latl0I1, he cries out, “'0 dear master,
9 $_0l’I‘0W, _0 yonder one, "two, -t.hreeic"anoes!”
“ell-. Friday,” said 1, “¥do‘n’t be terried,
I warrant you we will not only Ldefend ieurselves
\ U
against them, but kill most of those cruel sa-
vages.” But though I comforted him in the
best manner I could, the poor creature trem-
bled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him :
“ O master,” said he, “ they come look Friday,
they cut a me up.” “ Why, Friday,” said I,
they will eat me up as well as you, but we must
resolve to ght for our lives. What say you?
Can you ght, Friday?” “ Yes,” said he,
“ rather faintly, me shoot, me killjwhat I can,
but there come a great many number.”
“ Tliat’s no matter,” said I again, “ our guns
will terrify those we do not kill.” Things be-
ing thus settled, I fetched him a good dram of
rum, and gave it him to comfort his heart.
After he had drunk it, I ordered him to take
two fowling-pieces, and load them with large
swan-shot, then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs; and ve small bullets
each, charging my two pistols each with a
brace; I hung my great sword, as customary,
naked to my side, and gave Friday his hatchet,
as a most excellent weapon for defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself
as any knight errant that ever handled a sword
and spear; I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what I
could discover: and I perceived very soon by
my glass, that there were one-and-twenty sa-
vages three prisoners, and three canoes. Upon
which, I called very softly to Friday, and show-
’ t tthe corner
ing him a great tree, that was Jus a
"of the wood, I ordered him to repair thither,
and bring me word if he could perceive their ‘ac-
tions; accordingly he did as I commended 11"":
\
and came hack with this melancholy story, that
they were all about the re, eating the esh Of
one of their prisoners; and that_another lay
bound upon the sand, at a little distance from
them, which they designed for the next sacrifice,
and this he told me was not one of their nation,
but a bearded white man, who was driven by a
storm into their country, and of whom he had
talked to me about. You may be sure, that
upon hearing this, my soul was ready to sink
within me: when, ascending into a tree, I saw
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
feet tied with ags, or things resembling rushes,
being covered with clothes, and seemed to be
an European. From the tree where I took this
prospect, I perceived a thicket beyond it, about
fty yards nearer to them than where I was,
which I might come at undiscovered, and then
I should be within half a shot of these de-
vourers. Accordingly, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
thicket, and then I ascended to a little rising
ground, not above eighteen yards distance, and
there I had a full view of these creatures, and
could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me
not to loose a moment’s time. No less than
nineteen of these cruel wretches sat upon the
ground, close huddled together, expressing all
the delight imaginable at so barbarous an en-
tertainnient; .and they had just sent the other
two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,‘ and
bring him limb by limb to their re; for they
were then just going to untie the baiids from his
M
feet. Horeupon, immediately turning to my
man, “ Now, Friday,” said I, “ mind what I
say, and {do exactly as you sec me do. All
which he promising he would perforni, I set
down one of my musk-ets and fowling-piece up-
on the ground, and Friday did the same by his:
and with the other musket I took my aim at the
savages, bidding him do the like.
I only killed one and wounded two; but my
man Friday, taking his aim much better than I,
killed two and wounded three. You may be
sure theywere in a dreadful consternation at
such an unexpected disaster, and those who had
yet escaped our penetrating shot, immediately
jumped upon their feet, but were in such a cou-
fusion, that they knew not which way to run
or look, not knowing from whence their dc-
struction came. We threw down our pieces and
took upothers, giving a second volley; we per-
ceived only =two of them fall, though many
were wounded, who ran yelling and screaming
about like mad creatures. “ Now, Friday,”
said I, “ lay ‘down your piece, and take up the
musket, and follow me.” He did so, with great
courage; when, showing ourselves to the sa-
vages, we gave a great shout, and made directly
to the poor victim, who would have been sacri-
lced ‘had not our rst re obliged the butchers,
with three others, to jump into the canoe. By
fmyeorder, Friday red at them, rat which shot I
-thought the had ikilled them all, by reason of
"their falling =to the bottom of "the boat; how-
ever, rhe killed ‘two, and ‘smortally wounded *5
third. ‘In the meantime, I cut the ags the
tied the -<ha*nds land feet of the poor creature,
and lifting him up on his feet, asked him in the
Portuguese tongue, what countryman he wasi’
he said, Hispaniola, and then uttered all the
tliaiikfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
“ Signior,” said I, with as much Spanish as I
was master of, “ let us talk afterwards, but ght
now; here take this sword and pistol, and ‘do
what you can. And, indeed, he did so with
such courage and intrepidity, that he cut two
of them in pieces in an instant, the savages not
having the power to y for their lives. I or-
dared Friday to run for those pieces we had left
at the tree, which he brought me with great
swiftness, and then giving him my musket while
I loaded the rest, he pursued the ying wretclies
with his hatchet, dispatching three, but the rest
were too nimble for him. The S aniard taking
one of the fowliug pieces, Wllntlrflid two, whom
running into the wood, Friday pursued and
killed; but the other, notwithstanding his
wounds, lunged himself into the sea, and
swam to tliose who were left in the canoe, who,
with one wounded, were all that escaped out of
one-and-twenty.
The savages in the canoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager
in pursuing them; and indeed I was no less
anxious about their escape, lest, after the news
had been carried to their people, they should
return in multitudes, and destroy us. So being
resolved to pursue them, l jumped into one of
their canoes, and bid Friday follow me; but no
sooner was I in, than, to my surprise, I found
another poor creature bound hand and foot for
""3 Slauglllmi just as the Spaniard had been,
~
n
124 aosmsos causes.
with very little life in him. I immediately un-
bound him, and would have helped him up, but
he could neither stand nor speak, but groaned
so piteously, as thinking he was only unbound
to be slain. Here-upon I bid Friday speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; when
pulling out my bottle, I made the poor wretch
drink a dram, which with the joyful news he
had received, so revived his heart that he sat
up in the boat. As soon as Friday began to
hear him speak, and look more fully in his face,
it would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for he em-
braced him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, sung, then cried again, and wrung his
hands like a distracted creature; so that it was
a great while before I could make him speak
to me or tell me what was the matter with him;
at last he told me it was his father.
Here indeed I was innitely moved to see
the dutiful and tender affection this (poor sa-
vage had to his aged parent. He sat own by
him in the boat, opened his breast, and held
his father’s head close to his bosom, to cherish
him: he then took his arms and ancles, which
were stiff and numbed with binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; by which
means perceiving what the case was, I gave
him some ruin, which proved of great benet
to him. ‘
While we were busy in this action, the sa-
vages had gotten almost out of sight; and
happy it was we did not pursue them: for there
arose from the north-west, which continued all
night long, sucha violent storm, that lcollhl
not suppose otherwise but that they were all
drowned. After this I called Friday to me, and
asked him if he had given his father any bread?
he shook his head and said, “ None, not
one bit, hungry dog eat a all up;” S0 I gave
him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I car-
ried for this end. I likewise gave him a. dram
for himself, and two or three bunches of raisins
for his father. Both these he carried to him,
for he would make him drink the dram to com-
fort him.
Away then he runs out of the boat as if
he was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight as it were in
an instant; but at his return, I peiieived he
had in his hand an earthen jug with some water
for his father, with two more cakes of bread,
which he delivered into my hands. Being very
thirsty myself, I drank some of the water, of
which when his father had drank sufficiently, it
more revived his spirits than all the rum I had
given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry the S aniard one of the cakes, and
some water, who was reposing himself under
the shade of a tree, but so weak, that he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which I ordered
Friday to rub and bathe his ancles with rum; as
he did his father’s.--But every minute he was
employed in this he would east a wishful eye to-
wards the boat, where he left his father sitting;
who suddenly disappearing, he ew like light-
ning to him, but nding he had onlylaid himself
down lo ease his limbs, he returned haizk to me
presently. and then I spzpke to the Spaniard to
M
Q
let Friday help him to the boat, in order to be
conveyed to my dwelling, wherel would take
care of him. Upon which Friday carried him
to the canoe, setting him close by his father;
and presently stepping out again, launching the
boat off, and padd ed it along the shore faster
than I could walk, though the wind blew very
hard, and having brought them safe to the creek
away he ruiis to fetch the other canoe, which he
brought to the creek almost as soon as I got to
it by land, when wafting me over, we took our
new guests out of the boat; but so weak were
they that I was forced to make a kind of a hand-
barrow; gnd when I came to my castle, not be-
ing willing to make an entrance into iiiywall,
we made them a handsome tent, covered with
old sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon
and cover them.
To vet provisions for my poor weak subjects,
I ordeiied Friday to kill a yearling goat; which
when he had done, I cut oft‘ the hinder quarters,
' ' ' ll ' e boiled and
and chopping it into sina piec s,
stewed it, putting barley and rice into the broth.
This I carried into their tent, set a table, dined
'tl tlein myself and encouraged them. Fri-
Wl I I 2
day was my interpreter to his father, and indeed
' ' f
to the Spaniard too, who spoke_the language o
th va res retty well. After dinner, Iordered
e sa g p
Friday to fetch home all our arms from the eld
b the dead
of battle, and the next day to ury
bodies, which he did accordingly.
And now I bade Friday inquire of his father,
whether he thought these savages had escaped
F’ d 'f whether
tlielate storm in their canoe. an i so,
they would not return with a power too gt'B_at‘for
us to resist? he answered, that he thought it im-
possible they could _ outlive the storm- And
suppose they had attained their own country,
the strangeness of their fatal and bloody attack,
would make them tell their people, that the rest
of them were killed by thunder and lightning»
not by the hand of man, but by two spirits,
(meaning Friday and me) sent from above to de-
stroy them. And this, he said, he knew, be-
cause he heard them say the same to one ano-
ther. And indeed he was in the right on it; for
I have heard since, that these four men gave
out that whoever went to that enchanted island,
would be destroyed by re from the gods.
No canoes appearing soon after, as I expected,
my apprehensions ceased; instead of which my
former thoughts of a voyage took place, espe-
cially when Friday’s father assured me, I should
have good usage in his nation. As to the Spa-
niard, he told me that sixteen more of his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who had been ship-
wrecked, made their escape thither; that though
theylwere in union with the savages, yet they
were very miserable for want of provisions and
other necessaries. When I asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered that their
ship was bound from Rio de la Plata to the Ha-
vannah; that when the ship was lost only,ve
perished in the ocean; the rest, having saved
themselves in the boat, were now landed on the
main continent. “ And what do they intend to
do there ?’.’ said I. He ‘replied, “ They have
concerted measures to escape, by building a
vessel, but that they had neither tools nor pro-
visions, so that all their designs came to no-
thing.” “ Supposing,” said I, “ I should makc
a proposal, and invite them here, would they
not carry me prisoner to New Spain?” He an-
swered “No; for he knew them to be such
honest men, as would scorn to act such inhuman
baseness to their deliverer; that, if I pleased,
he and the old savage would go over to them,
talk with them about it, and bring me an an-
swer.
His assurances made me resolve to grant them
relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose; but when every thing was ready, the
Spaniard raised an objection, which carried a
great deal of weight in it, “ You know, sir,”
said he, “ that I cannot but be sensible of your
stock of rice and corn, sufficient for us at pre-
sent, but not for an increased number, much
less to vict-ual a vessel for an intended voyage.
My advice is, to wait another harvest, and in
the mean time cultivate and improve some more
land, whereby we may have plenty of provisions
in order to execute our design.”
This advice of the Spaniard I approved ex-
tremely, and so we all four went to work upon
some more land, and against seed-time we had
cured and trimmed up sufcient to sow twenty-
two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of
rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had
to spare. As we were four in number, and by
this time all in good health, we feared not a
hundred Indians, should they venture to attack
us; and while the corn was growing, I pitchffd
upon some trees, t to build us a large vessel,_ in
case the Spaniards came over; which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my privy-counsellor, to oversee and direct
the whole. I likewise increased my ocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bringing
home their kids to my inclosure. Nor did I
neglect the grape season, but cured them as
usual, though Ihad such a quantity now, as
would have lled eighty barrels with raisins.
And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came, God Almighty blessed the increase of
it so much, that from twenty-two barrels of
barley, we thrashed out two hundred and twen-
ty, and the like quantity of rice, sufficient to
victnal a ship t to carry me and all the Spa-
niards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered,
by a sufficient stock of provision, I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, giving
each of them a musket, eight charges of pow-
der and ball, and provision enough for eight
days; and away they sailed with a fair gale.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head,
when one morning a strange accident happened,
which was ushered in by Friday’s coming running
tome, and calling aloud, “Master, master,
they are wme, they are come.” Upon which,
out I jumped from my bed, put on my clothes,
and hurried through my little grove; when look-
ing towards the sea, I perceived a boat about a
league and a half distant, standing in for the
shore with the wind fair. I beheld they did not
come from the side where the land lay on, but
from the southermost end of the island; so
these being none of the people we wanted, I
ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as I
came down from the hill, which I now ascended,
in order to discover. more fully what they were;
and now with the help of my perspective glass
I plainly perceived an English ship, which lled
me with such uncommon transports of joy as
1 cannot tell how to describe; and yet some se-
cret doubts hung about me, proceeding from I
know not what cause, as though I had reason to
be upon my guard.
It was not long before I perceived the boat
to approach the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they ran their boat on shore on the
beach, about half a mile’s distance; which
proved so much the happier for me; since, had
they come into the creek, they had landed just
at my door; 'and might not only have forced me
out of my castle, but plundered me of all I had
in the world. Now l was fully convinced they
were all Englishmen, three of which were un-
armed and bound; when immediately the rst
four or ve leaped on shore, and took those three
out of the boat as prisoners; one of whom I
could perceive used the most passionate gestures
of entreaty, aliction, and despair, while the
others, in a lesser degree, showed abundance of
concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, lbeclaoned
to Friday who was below, to ascend the hill,
and likewise to view this sight. “ O master,”
said he to me, “ you see English mans eats pri-
soners as well as savage mans.” “And do you
think they will eat them, Friday?” said _I.
v
“ Yes,” said Friday. No, no, said I, Friday,
I am much more concerned lest they murder
them, but as for eating them up, that I am
sure they will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and the savage with
me, but also that I could not come within shot
of them unperceived, (they having no re arms
among them) and save these three men, whom
Ithought they were going to kill with their
swords. But it was some comfort to me, that 1
perceived they were set at liberty to go where
they pleased; the seamen scattered about as
though they had amind to see the place; and
so long did they negligently ramble, -that the
tide had ebbed so low as to 'leave the boat
aground. Nor were the two men who were in
her more circumspect; for having drank a little
too much liquor, they fell fast asleep. I all this
while lay very quiet, as being fully sensible it
could be no less than ten hours before the boat
could be aoat, and then it would would be so
dark, that they could not easily perceive .me, by
which means I should be more at liberty to hear
their talk, and observe all their motions; not
butrthat I prepared for my defence; yet as I had
another sort of an enemy to combat with, I
acted with ‘more caution. I took two fusees on
my shoulder, and gave Friday three muskets;
besides, my formidable goat-skin coat and mon-
strousvcap made me look.as erce anrlterrible as
Hercules» of old, especially when two pistols were
stuck in my belt, and -my naked sword hanging
by myaside. e .
The three ipoor distressed zcreatures, ‘too anx-
ions to get any repose, were however seated un-
der the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of
a mile from me. Upon which, without any
more ado, I approached towards them, with my
man following behind me, and, before I was
perceived, I called aloud to them, “ What are
ye, gentlemen?”
At these words they started up in great confu-
sion, when they beheld the strange gure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed as
if they would fly from me. “ Gentlemen,”
said I, “don’t be afraid; perhaps you have a
friend nearer than you expect.” “ He must
be from Heaven,” said one of them gravely,
pulling off his hat, “ for we are past all help in
this world.” “ All help is from Heaven,” said
I; "‘ but, sir, as I have perceived every action
between you and these brutes since your landing,
only inform me how to assist you, and I will do
it to the utmost of my power.”
“ Am I talking with one of human kind, or
an angel P” said he, in melting tears. “Sir,”
said I, “ my poor habit will tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you,
having but this servant only: here are arms and
ammunition; tell freely your condition: can we
save you?” “ The story,” said he, “is too
long to relate, since our butchers are so near;
but, sir, I was master of that ship, my men have
mutinied, and it is a favor they have put my
mate, this passenger, and me, on shore without
murdering us, though we expect nothing but
perishing here.” “ Have they re arms?” said
I. “ They have but two pieces,” said he, “ one
of which is left in the boat.” Ile also told me
there were two enormous villains among them,
that were the authors of this mutiny, who, if
they were killed or seized, might induce the rest
to return to their obedience.--“Well, well,”
said I, “ let us retire farther under the cover of
the woods;” and there it was I made these con-
ditions with him: rst, that, while they staid
iii the island, they should entirely conform» to
my orders, and return me the arms whichl
should put into their hands; and secondly, that
if the ship was recovered by my means, they
should afford Friday and myself a passage gratis
to England.
When he had given all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each of them a gun, with powder and
ball sutcient. We soon came up with them,
upon which I red, killed one of the captain’s
chief enemies and wounded the other, who ea-
gerly called for assistance; but the captain who
had reserved his piece, coming up to him,
knocked him down with the stock of his gun;
three others were also slightly wounded, who
at my approach cried out for help. This the
captain granted, upon condition that they
would swear to be true to him and assist in re-
covering the ship, which they solemnly did;
however I obliged the captain to keep them
bound. After which I sent Friday and the
captain’s mate to secure the boat and bring
away the oars and sails; when, at their return,
three men coming back, and seeing their late
distressed captain now their conqueror, sub-
mitted to be bound also. And then it was,
that having more liberty, I related the adven-
N
tures of my life, which he heard with a serious
and wonderful attention. After this, I carried
him and his two companions into my little
fortied castle; showed them all my conveni-
ences, and refreshed them with such provisions
as I could afford. When this was over, we be-
gan to consider about regaining the ship. He
said that there were twenty-six hands on hoard,
who knowing their lives were forfeited by the
mutiny, it would be dangerous for our small
company to attack them. This was a reason-
able inference indeed; but something we must
resolve on, and immediately put in execution.
We therefore heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that she could not shoot off at high-
water mark, and broke a hole in her not easily
to he stopped; so that all the signals they gave
for the boat to come on board were in vain.
This obliged them to send another boat on
shore with ten men armed, whose faces the
captain plainly descried, the boatswain being
the chief officer; but he said there were three
honest lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy. When the sailors landed, and
beheld their boat in that condition, they not
only hallooed, butred for their companions to
hear, yet they received no answer. This struck
them with horror and amazement; and thinking
their companions were murdered, three were
ordered to look after the boat, while the other
seven leaped on shore to search for their com-
panions; and, indeed, they came to the brow
of rthe hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to ._a great distance .-in the woods.
andtthere shouting and -hallooing till tired and
weary, they at length seated themselves. ‘under a
spreading tree; I now ordered Friday and the
captain’s mate to go over the creek, and halloo
as loud as they could, and so decoying them
farther into the woods, come round to me
again. And this, indeed, had good effect; for
they followed the noise. Hereupon, immedi-
ately the captain and our party hastened to the
boat, and surprised the three, by the captain’s
knocking down one, and ordering the others to
surrender upon pain of death, and who, being
the honestest of them all, sincerely joined with
us.
By this time it was pretty late; when the
rest returning to their boat, which they found
aground in the creek, the tide out, and the men
gone, they ran about wringing their hands,
crying it was an enchanted island, and that they
should be all murdered by spirits or devils. My
men would willingly have fallen upon them, but
to be more certain, Friday and the captain
crawled upon their hands and feet; when the
boatswain approached in sight, the captain red
and killed him on the spot; Friday wounded
the next man, and a third ran away. Here-
upon, it being dark, I ordered the man we
had surprised in the boat, to call them by their
names, and to parley with the . Accordingly
he called out aloud, “ Tom Sinnith, for God’s
Sake, Tom, surrender immediately, or vou’re
all dead men.” “ Who must we surrender to P”
says Smith. “ To our captain and fty men
llefei Who have taken me prisoner, wounded
WI" Frye. and killed the boatswain.” - Shall we
have quarter, then?!’ Hereupon, the captain
Aw.
callsout, “You Smith, you know my voice,
surrender ‘immediately, and you shall have all
your lives granted, except Will Atkins.” Here-
upon Atkins cried out, “ What have I done,
captain, more than the rest P” however, he
was ordered to submit to the governor’s mercy,
for such was I called. And so, laying down
their arms, we bound them all, and seized on
their boat.
After this, the captain expostulated with
them, telling them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there;
but he thought they would all be sent to Eng-
land,»except Will Atkins, who was ordered to
prepare for death the next morning. Here-
upon Atkins implored the captain to intereede
for his life, and the rest begged they might not
be sent to England. This answered our pro-
ject for seizing the ship. For after sending
Atkins and two of the worst fast bound to the
cave, and the rest being committed to my
bower, I sent the captain to treat with them
in the governor’s name, offering them pardon
if they would assist in recovering the ship.
Upon which they all promised to stand by him
to the last drop of their blood; and whoever
acted treacherously, should be hanged in chains
upon the beach. They were all released_ on
these assurances; and then the captain repaired
to the boat, with four men well armed, himself,
his mate, and ve more. By midnight they
came within call of the ship, when the captain
ordered Robinson to hail her, and. tell them
that with great diieulty they had found _the
men at last. But while they erew discoursmg,
the captain, his mate, and the rest entered, and
knocked down the second mate and carpenter,
and after some resistance, shot the pirate cap-
tain through the head, upon which all the rest
yielded themselves prisoners. And thus the
ship being recovered, the joyful signal was red,
which I heard with the greatest joy imaginable;
nor was it long before he brought the ship to
an anchor at the creek’s mouth, where coming
to me unawares, " There,” says he, “ my dearest
friend and deliverer, there is your ship, and we
are your servantsz” a comfort so unspeakable,
as made me swoon in his arms, while with gra-
titude to heaven we were tenderly embracing
each other.
Nothiii now remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board. Here-
upon cnncerting with the captain, Idressed my-
self in one of ‘is suits, and sending for them,
told them, that as I was going to leave the island
with all my people, if they would tarry there,
their lives should be spared, if not, they should
be hanged at the rst port they came at. They
agreed to stay. Hereupon Itold them my whole
story, charging them to be kind to the Spa-
niards, that were expected, giving them all my
arms, and informing them of every thing neces-
sary for their subststance, after which, I and my
man Friday went on hoard. But the next morn-
lng, two of the men came swimming to the ship’s
side, desiring the captain to take them on board,
though he hanged them afterwards, complaining
mightily how hartiareusly the others used them.
Upon which 1 prevailed wgitlt the captain to take
N .
138 noanvson enusoa.
them in; and being severely whipped and pickled,
they proved more honest for the future. And
so I bid farewell to this island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and
goat’s skin cap; setting sail December 1'2, 1686,
after twenty-eight years, twoymonths, and nine-
teen days’ residence, that same day and month
I escaped from Salee, and landed in England,
June ll, 1687, after ve-and-thirty years’ ab-
sence from my own country, which rendered me
altogether a stranger there.
Here I found my rst captain’s widow alive,
who had buried a second husband, but in very
mean circumstances, and whom I made easy up-
on his account. Soon after, I went down to
Yorkshire, where all my family was expired,
except two sisters, and as many of one of my
-brother’s children. I found no_ provision had
-been made for me, they concluding I had been
long since dead; so that I was but in a very
slender station. Indeed the captain did me a
great kindness, by his report to the owners, how
I had delivered the ship on the Desolate Island,
upon which they made me a present of £200
sterling. I next went to Lisbon, taking my
man Friday with me, and there arriving in
April, I met the Portuguese paptain, who had
' t but,
taken me on board on the A rican coas ;
being ancient, he had left off the sea, and re-
signed all his business to his son who followed
the Brazil trade. So altered both of us were,
that we did not know each other at rst, till I
discovered myself more fully to him. After pa
few embraces, I began to inquire of my con-
cerns: and then the old gentlemen told m,
aonmsos erwsos. I39
that it was nine years since he had been at Bra-
zil, where my partner was then living, but my
trustees were both dead; that he believed I
should have a good account of the product of
my plantation; that the imagination of my be-
ing lost had obliged my trustees to give an es-
timate of my share to the procurator scal, who,
through my not returning, had given one-third
to the king, and the rest to the monastery of
St. Augustine; but if I put in my claim, or any
one for me, it would he returned, except the
yearly product, which was given to the poor. I
then desired him to tell me what improvement
he thought had been made on my plantation,
and whether he imagined it was worth my while
to look after it; he answered he did not know
how much it was improved; but this he was cer-
tain of, that my partner was grown vastly rich
upon his half of it: and, that he had been
informed, that the king had 200 moidores per
annum for his third part. He farther told me
that he had taken possession of my sugar-house,
having accounted himself for eight years with
my partner and trustees for the prots, of which
he would give me a very good account.
4 And indeed, this he performed very faithfully
in afew days, making himself indebted to me
470 moidores of gold, over and above what had
been lost at sea, after I had left the place. And
then he recounted to me what misfortunes he
had gone through, whieli forced my money out
of his hands, to buy a part in a new ship:
“ But,” says he, “ you shall not want, take
this: and when my son returns, every farthing
shall be paid you.” Upon which he put into
my hand a purse of 150 moidores in gold; as
likewise the instrument, containing the title to
the ship which his son was in, and which
he offered as security for the remainder. But
really when I saw so much goodness, generosity,
tenderness, and real honesty, I had not the
heart to accept it, for fear he would straighten
himself on my account.--“ It is true,” said he,
“ it may be so; but then the money/is your’s,
not mine, and you may have the greatest ocea-
sion for it.” However I returned fty of them
back again, promising that I would freely for-
give him the other hundred when I got my
effects into my hands, and that I designed to go
myself for that purpose. But he told me he
could save me that trouble, and so caused me
to enter my name with a public notary, as like-
wise my aidavit, with a procuration aixed. to
it: and this he ordered me to send in a letter to
one of his acquaintance, a merchant in Brazil;
and indeed, nothing could be more faithfully and
honorably observed; for in seven months’ time
I had a very faithful account of all my effects,
what sums of money were raised, what ex-
pended, and what remained for my use: in a
word Ifound myself to be worth £5,000 sterling,
and £1,000 per annum.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded
my faithful captain, by returning him the hun-
dred moidores, and not only forgave him all he
owed me, but I allowed him yearly ahundred
more, and fty to his son, during their lives.
And now being resolved to go to England, I re-
turned letters of thanks to the Prior of St. Au-
gustine, and in particular to my old partner,
with very suitable presents. By the captain’s-
advice, I was persuaded to go by land to Calais,
and there take passage for England; when as it
happened, I got a young English gentleman, a.
merchant-’s son at Lisbon, to accompany me,
together with two English, and two Portuguese
gentlemen; so that with a Portuguese servant,
an English sailor, and my man Friday, there
were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we set out, and
came to Madrid, when the summer decaying,
we hasted to Navarre, where we were informed,
that there was scarcely any passing, by reason<
of the prodigious quantity of snow; so that we
were obliged to abide near twenty days at Pam-
peluna, and at last to take a guide to conduct us
safe towards Thoulouse. And now twelve other
gentlemen joining with us, together with their.
servants, we had a very jolly company. Away
our guide led us by frightful mountains, and.-
through so many intricate mazes and windings,
that we insensibly passed them, which, as we
travelled along, ushured us into- the prospect of
the fruitful and charming provinces of Langu_e-
doc and Gascoigne. .
But now came on two adventures, both tra-
gical and comical. First, our guide was encoun-
tered by three wolves and a bear, who set upon
him and his horse, and wounded him in three
places; upon which my man, riding up to his
assistance, shot one of them dead upon-the
spot, which made the othérs retire into the
woods. But the pleasantest adventure was to
behold my man attack the bear." ’Tis such a
ereature, that if you let him alone, he will never
meddle with you; and this my man very well
knew, and so begging leave of me in broken
English, he told us, “ He would make good
laugh.” “Why, you silly fool,” said I, “ he’lI
eat you up at a mouthful.” “ Eatee me up,”
replied he, by way of scorn, “me not only
eatee him up, but make much good laugh.”
Upon which, pulling off his boots, he claps on
his pumps, and running after the monstrous
beast, he called out that he wanted to discourse
with him, and then throwing stones on purpose
to incense him, the beast turns about in fury,
and, with prodigious strides, shuffles after him.
But although he was not swift enough to keep
pace with Friday, who made up to us as it were
for help; yet being angry, “ ou dog,” said I,
immediately take horse, and let us shoot the
creature.” But he cried, “~ Dear master, no
shoot, me make you much laugh.” And so he
turned about, making signs to follow, while
the bear ran=afterf, till coming to a great oak,
he ascended in a" minute, leaving his gun at
the bottom of it». Nor did the bear make any
difculty of it, but ascended like a cat, though
his weight was very great. You must consider
I was not a little amazed at the folly of my
man, as not perceiving any thing to occasion
our laughter, till such time as we rode up nearer
and beheld the beast mounted upon the oak,
on the beginning of the same branch, to which
Friday clung at the farther end, where the bear
durst not come. Hereupon Friday cried out,
“ Now, master, me make much laugh, me make
bear dance.” Upon which he fell a shaking
the bough, which made the creature look be-
hind him to see how he could retreat. Then
as if the bear had understood his stammering
English; “Why you no come farther,’ Mr.
Bear?” said he; “pray, Mr. Bear, come far
here;” and then indeed we all burst into a
laughter, especially when we perceived Friday
drop like a squirrel upon the ground, leaving
the beast to make the best of his way down the
tree, and as the creature descended backward
from the tree very leisurely, before he could lay
one foot on the ground, Friday shot him
through the ear stone dead; and looking to see
whether we were pleased he burst out into a
hearty laughter, saying, “ So we kill 'de bear
in my country, not with the gun, but with
much long arrow.” Thus ended our diversion
to our great satisfaction; especially in a place
where the terrible howling struck us with a con-
tinual terror. But the snows now growing very
deep, particularly on the mountains, the raven-
ous creatures were then obliged to seek for sus-
tenance in the villages, where coming by sur-
prise on the country Rgpple, killed several of
them, besides a great ‘i'umb‘er"of their sheep
and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dan-
gerous place to pass by: and if there were any
more wolves in the country, there we should nd
them. This.was a small plain encompassed with
woods, to get through a long lane to the village
where we were tolodge. When we entered the
wood, the sun was within half an-hour of setting,
and'a little after it was set, we came img the
plain, which was not above twofurlongs over,
and then we perceived ve great wolves .cr.oss
the road, without taking notice of us, and as
swift as though they were pursuing after their
prey. Hereupon our guide, believing there were
more coming, desired us to be upon our guard.
Accordingly our eyes were very circumspect,
till about half a league farther, we perceived a
dead horse, and near a dozen of wolves devour-
ing its carcass. We had not gone half over the
plain, before we heard dreadful howlings in a
wood on our left, when presently we saw a hun-
dred come up against us, as though they had
been an experienced army. This obliged us to
form-ourselves in the best manner; and then I
-ordered that every other man should re; and
those who did not, might "be ready to give a
second volley, should they advance upon us;
and then every man should made use of his
-pistols. But there was no necessity for this;
for the enemy being terried, stopped at the
"noise of the re; four of them were shot dead,
and several -other being wounded, went bleeding
away, upon which, ordering a second volley in
their rear, they all galloped into the woods with
great precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our
-pieces again, and then made all the haste we
could on our way; but we had not rode far, he--
afore we were obliged to put ourselves in a posture
1.-of defence as before, being alarmed with a very
‘dreadful ‘noise in the same wood, on our left
'band, the same way as we were to pass, only
that it was some distance from us. But pre-
sently, these troops of wolves on our front ap-
peared in sight, as though a great» number of
them had a design to surroundus, and devour
Q
us in spite of fate. But as they did not fall up-
on us immediately, we proceeded on our journey
in as swift a manner as the roads would permit
our horses, which was only a large trot. It
was in this manner we travelled, till such time
as we discovered another wood,‘ and had the
prospect of! its entrance, through which we were
trrpass, at the farthest side of the plain. But
surely none, can express the terror we were in,
when approaching the lane, we‘ perceived a con-
fused number of theercest wolves, standing, as
itfwere, guarding its entrance.
What course to-= take, whether to proceed or
retreat‘, we could, not telli; but it was not long
before the wolves themselves made us come to a
resolution; for‘ such numbers surrounded us,
every one of whom expectedi their prey, that
were our bodies to‘; be divided among them, there
would not be half a mouthful a piece. But
happy, very happy it was forius, that but a lit-
tle way from the entrance, there lay some very
large timber trees, which I- supposed had been
cut down and laid there for sale; amongst which-
l* drew my little troop, placing ourselves in a
line behind one long tree, which served us for as
breast-work, when desiring them to alight, we
stood’ in a triangle, or three fronts, closing our
horses in the centre, the only place where we
could preserve them. - . ,
Certainly, there never was a- more furious
charge than what the wolves made upon us iri
this place: and the sight oft the horses, which
was the principal prey they aimed at; provoked
$59!? llllllgr and added to their natural erce-
ncss; They came on us with a most dreadful
0
noise, that made the woods ring again; and
beginning to mount the pieces of timber, I or-
dered cvery man to lire, as before directed: and,
indeed, so well did they take their aim, that
they killed several of the wolves at the rst vol-
ley; but still we were obliged to keep a conti-
nual ring, by reason they came on like devils,
pushing one another with the greatest fury.-
But our second volley something abated their
courage, when stopping a little, we hoped they
would have made the best of their way ; however,
it did not prove so, for others made a new at-
tempt upon us; and though in four rings -we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, laining
twice as many, yet they several times succes-
sively came on, as though they valued not their
lives for the sake of their prey.
I was unwilling to spend our last shot too
suddenly, and therefore calling my other servant,
and giving him a horn of powder, bid him lay‘ a
large train quite along the timber, which he did
while Friday was charging my fusee and his own,
with the greatest dexterity. By this time the
wolves coming up to the timber, I set re to the
train, by snapping a discharged pistolclose to
the powder. This so scorched and terried them,
that some fell down, and otliersjuinped in among
us; butthese were immediately dispatched, when
all the rest, frightened with the light, which the
darksome night caused to appear more dreadful,
began at length to retire; upon which, ordering
our last pistols to be red at once‘, giving at the
same time a great shout, the wolves were obliged
to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn tail;
and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones,
cutting them in pieces with our swords, which
obliged them to howl lamcntably, to the terror
of their fellows, who resigned to us the eld as
victorious conquerors.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts,
having killed three score of them, and saved our
lives from their fury. We still had a league far-
ther to go, when, as we went, our cars were sa-
luted with their most unwelcome howlings, and
we expected every moment another attack. But,
in an hour’s time, we arrived at the town where
we were to lodge; and here we found the place
strictly guarded, and all in terrible confusion,
as well they might, for fear of the bears and
wolves breaking into the village, in order to
prey upon their cattle and people. The next
morning we were obliged to take a new guide,
by reason the other fell very bad of his wounds,
which he had received, as before-mentioned.
After we had reached Thoulouse, we eameinto
a warm, pleasant, and fruitful country, not in-
fested with wolves, nor any sort of ravenous
creatures.
I have nothing uncommon in my passage
through France to take notice of. From Thou-
louse I travelled to Paris, from thence to Calais,
where I took shipping, and landed at Dover the
14th of January, in a very cold season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon
discovered my new-found estate, and allthe bills
of exchange I had were currently paid. The
good ancient widow, my only privy-counsellor,
-thought no pains or cares too great to procure
my advantage; nor had I ever occasion to blame
her delity, which drew from mc an ample re-
ward. I was for leaving my .efi'eets in her
hands, intending ‘to set out -for Lisbon, and to
the Brazils; shut, as -in the Besolate ‘Island, I
had some doubts about the Romish oeligion, 280
I knew there ~was Elittle encouragement to settle
there, unless I would apostatize from the ortho-
dox ‘faith, or live in continual fear of the inqui.
sition. Upon this account I resolved rto se‘ll my
plantation; and, for that intent, I wrote to my
old friendat Lisbon, who neturned me ran an,-
swer to my great satisfaction; which was, that
he would sell it Ito good -account; which he
accordingly did‘; so that in about eight months
after, the ship ibeing in rthat ztime returned, he
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight, in order ito pay
for the purchase.
. Hereupon, in return, I signed the instrument
of sale, according to form, which they had sent
from Lisbon, and returned it again to my old
friend, he having sent me, for my estate, bills
of thnee -hundred and twenty eight thousand
KPIGQQS of eight, reserving the payment of one
hundred moidores per annum, whichl had al-
‘lowed him during life, likewise fty to his son
during his life also, according to my faithful
promise, which the plantations was to make
good as a rent charge.
And thus having led my reader to the know-
dedge of the rst parts of my ‘life, so remarkable
for the many peculiar prov-idences that attended
-it, oating in the ocean of uncertainty and dis-
,appointment, of adversity and prosperity, be-
ginning rfoolishly, and yet ending happily; sme-
-thinks, now that I am come to a safe and plea-
sant haven, it is time to cast out my anchor,
and, laying up my vessel, bid, for a while, adieu
to foreign adventures. I had no other concern
to look after, but the care of my brother’s two
sons, which, with the good widow's persuasions,
obliged me to continue at home seven years.
One of these children I bred up agentleman,
and the other an ex erienced sailor, reinarkahle
for his courage and) bravery. Besides this, I
married a virtuous young gentlcwoman, of a
very good family, by whom I had two sons
and one daughter. But my dear and tender wife
leaving this earthly stage, (as in the second part
of my life you will hear) which rent my soul, as
it were, asunder, my native country became
weary and tiresome to me; and my nephew hap-
pening to come from sea, tempted me to venture
another voyage to the East-Indies, which I did
in the year"]694, at. which time I visited my
island, and informed myself of every thing that
happened since my departure.
I
 
 
03
[150]
WEN ©R@@@@°§
sacoun vomoa TO THE ISLAND,
AND
FURTHER ADVENTURES
On his Return by Land.
' ~
WHEN we consider the puissant force of nature,
and what mighty inuence it has many times
over the temper of the mind, it will be no such
great wonder to think, that mg powerful reason
should he overcome by a muc stronger incli-
nation. My late acquired kingdom ran cpn-
nually in my thoughts all day, and Idreamed
of it in the night : nay, I made it the continual
subject of my talk even to impcrtinence, when
I was awake. And, indeed, this anticipating
all the pleasing joys of mylife, scarcelya orded
me one pleasant hour: my dear and tender wife
could not but take notice of it, which drew ma-
ny affectionate expostulations from her, which
at length, aided and enforced by the most en-
dearing tenderness, and the most innocent, and
yet most powerful charms, brought me insen-
gibly into my right understanding: and when I
considered all the transactions of my life, and
particularly that I had no occasion to seek for
more riches, who already was blessed with sul-
ciency, with much struggling I altered my reso-
lutions at last, resolving to apply myself to
aosmsou cxwsos. 151
some business or other, whiclrmight put a pe-
riod to such wandering inclinatlons. Hereupon
I bought a little» farm in the county of Bedford,
with a resolution to move thither: upon this
there was apretty convenient house, surrounded
with land, very capable of improvement, Wl}1°h
suited my temper, as to planting, managing,
and cultivating. Nor was I long before I entered
upon my new settlement, having bought plouglls,
harrows, carts, waggnns, horses, cows, and
shee ; so thatl now led the life of a country
gentleman, and ile happy in my retirement as
the greatest monarch in the world. And what
made me think my he piness, the greater was,
that I was in the middle state of life, which my
father had so often recommended, much resem-
bling the felicity of a rural retirement, which is
elegantly described by the poet in these lines:
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and yonth no snare.
But in the midst of this my happiness, I was
suddenly plunged in the greatest sorrow that I
could possibly endure; for, when I least ex-
pected it, my dear and tender wife was forced to
submit to the irresistible power of death, leav-
ing this transitory life for a better. It is impos-
lbl ll‘ BIB t0 EXQPQBB thebeauties of ‘her mind,
or the loveliness of her person; neither ean I
too much lament her loss, which my latest
breath shall record; her inuence was greater
over me than the powers of my own reason, the
lmportunities of friends, the instructions 'ot'~a
-fat er. orlthe melting tears of a tender;and'dis-
eonsolate mother; in as word, she" was the spirit
\..
of all my affairs, and the centre of my enter-
prises.'—-But now, since the cruel hand of death
had closed my dearest’s eyes, I seemed in my
thoughts a‘ stranger to the world; my privy-
counsellor being gone, I was like a ship without
a pilot, that could only run before the wind.
And when I looked around me in this busy
world, and beheld one part of mankind labour-
ing for bread, and the other squandering away
their estates, this put me in mind how I had
lived in my little kingdom, where both ‘reason
and religion dictated to me, that there was
something that certainly was the reason and end
of life, which was far superior to what could be
hoped for on this side the grave. My country
delights were now as insipid and dull, as music
and science to those who have neither taste nor
ingenuity. In short, resolving to -leave off
house-keeping, I left my farm, and in a few
months returned to London. .
It was now the beginning of the year 1694, at
which timemy nephew’ (who, as I before oh-
served, had been brought up to the sea, and ad-
vanced to be captain of a ship) was returned
from aslaort voyage to Bilboa, the rst he had
made,in that station. He comes ito me one
morning, telling me, that some merchants of
his acquaintance had proposed to him to go a
voyage forthem to the East-Indies and China,
in the manner of private traders: “ and now
uncle,’? said he, “if you’ll accompany me thi-
ther, I’ll engage to land you upon yourown
island, to see the state of your little kingdom.”
k‘ Just.~before he came fin, my thoughts ‘Were
xed to get a patent for its possession, and then
I
to ll it with inhabitants. After Ihad paused a
while, “ Nephew,” said I, “ if you will leave
me there, and call for me as you comeback, I
care not if I give my consent;” but he answered
that the merchants would not allow their vessel,
loaded with a valuable cargo, to return t/here
-again, which was a month’s sail out of the wayj;
-“ besides, sir,” said he, K‘ if I should miscarry,
was your request granted, why then you would
ibe locked up as before.” This, indeed, carried
-a great deal of reason in it; but we found out a
remedy, and that was to carry a framed sloop
.on board, ready to lbe set up in the island, by
the assistance of some carpenters, which we
should carry with us, that ‘might be tted up in
~a few days to go to sea. I was not -long in form-
ing my resolution, which overswayed my good
friend, the widow's persuasions, and the natural
~a'ection "I ‘bore to my young children. I made
my will, and settled my estate in such manner,
that I was perfectly sure my poor infants would
have justice done them. The good widow not
only undertook to make provision for my voy-
age, but also took the charge of my domestic
affairs, and to provide for my children's educa-
tion; and indeed no mother could take more
care or understand the oice better; for which
I lived to reward and return my hearty thanks.
The heginning of January, L694-5, my ne-
phew hemg ready to sail, I and Friday went on
board l the Downs on the 8th, having, besides
the sloop already mentioned, a very considerable
cargo for my new colony. First ,1 had some ser-
vants, Wlwm I proposed to leave there, as they
should appear wilting; there were two carpen-
154 nomuson cnusos.
1
-r
ters, a smith, and a very ingenious fellow who was
Jack-of-all-trades; for he was not only a cooper
by trade, but also was dextrous at making
wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn. likewise a
good turner, and a good pot-maker. I also car-
ried a tailor, who consented to stay in my plan-
tation, and proved a most necessary fellow in the
island. As to my cargo, it consisted of a sui-
cient quantity of linen, and English stuffs for
clothing the Spaniards ‘that I expected to nd
there; as likewise gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings; together with beds, bedding, and house-
hold stuff, especially kitchen utensils, with ots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also nails, toolis of
allssorts, staples, hooks, hinges, and all other
things necessary; all which, Ithink, cost me
about three hundred pounds. Nor was this all,
forl carried a hundred spare arms, muskets,
and fusees, besides some pistols, and a conside-
rable quantity of several sorts of shot, two
brass cannon, besides swords, cutlasses, and the
iron part of some pikes and halherts. I made
my nephew take with us two small quarter-deck
guns, more than he had occasion for in his ship,
to leave behind, if there was a necessity; so
that we might build a fort there, and man it
against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea, and though I can’t
say this voyage was so unprosperous as my
others had been, yet contrary winds drove us so
far northwardythat we were obliged to put in at
Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days. Here, indeed, provisrotgs
were very cheap, and we added to ourslnps
stores by taking several live hogs, two cowi 111111
calves, which I then resolved to put on shore in
my island, if our necessities did not call for
them. On the 5th of February we sailed from
Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lasted for
some days; and I think it was about the 20th of
the same month late in the evening, when the
mate informed us, that he saw a ash of re,
and heard a gun re; and when he was speaking,
a boy came in and told us, that the boatswain
had heard another. Upon which we all ran to
the quarter-deck, from whence, in a few mo-
ments, we perceived a terrible re at a distance.
We made up directly to it, and in half an hour’s
time, the wind being fair, we could plainly per-
ceivea great ship on re, in the middle of the
sea.-—'l‘ouched with this unhappy disaster, and
considering my former circumstances, whenhthe
Portuguese captain took me up, I immediately
ordered ve guns to be red, that the poor crea-
tures, not seeing us, it being dark, (though we
could perceive their ame) might be sensible
there was deliverance at hand, and consequently
might endeavour to save themselves in their boat.
Nor was it long before the ship blew up in the
air, and the re was extinguished in the ocean.
But supposing them all to be in their boats, we
hung out our lanterns, and kept ring till eight
o’clock in the morning; when, with our per-
spectives, we beheld two boats full of people,
making towards us, though the tide was against
them 5 then spreading out our ancient, and
hanging out a_ waft, as a signal for them to
come on_hoard, in half an hour’s time we came
up with them, and took them all in, there being
I10 198$ than Sixty-four men, w0men,.and chil-.
I
dren. It waisa French merchant-ship of three
hundred. tons, homeward bound from Quebec,
m the l'lV8l‘ of Caneda.-The master informed‘
me how, by the negligence of the steersman, the
steerage was set on re; that, at his outcry for
help, the re’ was, as he thought, totally extin-
guished; but that some sparks: getting between;
the timber and‘ within the ceiling, it proceeded"
int5rt;tIh'e’1gold, n;il1_erf~ttl;ene xgastno resisliingit;
an en iey go mo ierr oa siasierea uresm
the last extremity, with what; rovision they
" ogeit ors s1s~a;n’a ompass,
had t tl er with a e'l Pd c
intending to= go Back to,Newf’eundland», “ but,
(said he‘) in this? our great distress we heard‘ the
wel‘come~neport of your guns; when, with un-
speakable joy, taking down our masts and sails,
we were resolved to lie by till morning; but per-
ceiving" your light, we set our oars at work-, to
keep our boat a‘-head‘ the sooner to attain‘ your
ship, the happy iiistrinnent of our deliverance.”
Indeed mo one can‘ express the‘ joy of these
poor creatures on this; occasion; I think, if I
aminot mistaken, our surgeon was» obliged to
lint thirty of them hloodi _But among the pas-
sengers, there were two priests, tlieone an: old,
the other a young‘ man; and what‘ amazed me
more was, that the oldest was in the worst
pligglit; for no sooner did he perceive himself
£1-nee from dangev, but he dimpped down, asit
were; witho:l1t* life, andh t'o-‘every Oli‘§'S£iippé8l;
arme quite‘ ead; but t e" surgeon c _a ngi an
rubbing his arm,‘ opened a vein, which. atrst
dropped; andi then owing more _freely, the=old‘
man began tor o{)en l1(S' eyes, and=m a quarter vi’
arbhourewas we l again.
¢
, 4~
Remarkable, indeed, was the behaviour of
the young priest. At his entrance on board the
ship, he fell on his face in the most humble
prostration to the Almighty. I thought indeed-‘,
he had fallen into a swoon. and so ran to help
him up; but he modestly told me, he was re-
turning thanks to the Almighty, desiring me to
leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Creator, he would retu_rn= me thanks also. And
indeed he did. so, about three minutes after,
with great seriousness and affection, while the
tears stood in his eyes, which convinced me of
the gratitude of his soul. Nor did he less show
his piety and wisdomi, in applying himself to his
country people, and labouring tm compose them,
bytlhe-moot powerful: reasons; arguments, and
persuasions.---Amt when, indeed, these people
had taken their night’s repose, in such lodgings
as our ship would allow, we ound nothing but
the best oi manners, andi the most ei'vil= acknow-
ledgements, for which the French are eminently
remarkable. The next day the captain, and one
of Ihepriests desired: to speak. with me and my
nephew the commander. They told: us, that
they had saved some money and valuable things
out of the"i'uined- vessel, which was at our service,
only that they desired to beset. on: shore some
where pi our way. At i:st:,._ nephew was fa:
accepting the: money‘: but Ii (who knew hom
hard my case would have been, had the Puntin-
guese captain‘ served mm so)‘ peiimaded. him to
359- contrary; and therefore told: them, that as
we had done nothing but wha._t we were obliged
to do, by patmlei and humanity, and. wh-3|; ya
ourselves might expect from others ii such» cala-
.. P '
mity, so we took them up to save them, not to
plunder them, or leave them naked upon the
land, to perish for Want of subsistence, and
therefore would not accept their money; but as
to landing them, that was a great difliculty; for
being bound to the East-Indies, it was impos-
sible to change our voyage upon their particular
account.--All that we could do, was to put our-
selves -in the way of meeting some ships home-
ward bound‘ from the West-Indies, that, if pos-
siblc, they might get a passage to France or
England. Indeed, they were very thankful for
our rst kindness; but were under great concern,
especially the passengers, at their being carried
to the East-Indies. They begged, therefore, I
would keep on the banks of Newfoundland,
where probably they might meet with some ship
or sloop to carry them to Canada, whence they
came. As this was but a reasonable request, so
we consented to carry them to Newfoundland, if
wind and weather would permit; if not, that
we would carry them to Martinico in the West-
Indies. But, as it happened, in a week’s time
we made the banks of Newfoundland, where the
French people hireda bark to carry them to
France. But the young preist being desirous to
go to the East-Indies, I readily agreed to it, be-
cause I liked his conversation, ~ and two or three
of the French sailors alsoentered themselves on
board our ship.
Now directing our course for the West-Indies,
steering S. and S. by E. about twenty days,
with little wind, another adventure happened to
exercise our humanity. In‘ the latitude of 27
degrees, 5 minutes north, the 19th of March:
1694-5, we perceived a sail, which bore upon»
us,' and then she appeared to he a large vessel,
having lost her main top-mast and bowsprit;
when firing a gun as a signal of distress, wind
N. N. W. we soon came to speak with .her.
She was a ship from Bristol, bound home from
Barbadoes, out of which road she had been
forced in a hurricane to the westward, in which
thev lost their masts.
They told us their expectations were to see the-
Bahama islands, but were driven away by a
strong wind at N. N. W. and having noasails to
work the ship with, but the main-course, and a
kind of a square sail upon a jury fore-mast, be-
cause they could not come near the land, were
endeavouring to stand for the Canaries;' nay,
what was worse, besides all their fatigue, they
were almost starved for want of provision,
having ate nothing for eleven days; all that
they had aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh wa-
ter, and seven casks of rum. In this ship were
passengers, a youth, his mother, and a maid-
servant, who were in a most deplorable condi-
tion for want of food. Ifl had not gone on
hoard their ship, the knowledge of their misery
had been concealed from me, and they would
have inevitably perished, though, indeed their
second mate, who was captain, by reason the
true captain not being on board when the hurri-
cane happened, had before informed me that
there were such persons on board, whom he sup-
posed to he dead, being afraid to inquire after
them, because he had nothing to give them for
relief. Hereupon we resolved to let them have
what we could spare, ordering the mate to bring
some of his men on board us, which he did ac-
cordingly; as he and they looked like skeletons,
when meat was set before them I ordered them
to eat sparingly. But, however, they soon fell
sick: which obliged the surgeon to mix some-
thing in their broth, which was to be to them
both food and physio. When they were fed, we
ordered our mate to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or ve pieces of beef; but the surgeon
charged them to see it boiled, and keep a guard
on the cook-room, to prevent the men from
eating it raw, and consequently killing them-
selves with what was designed for their relief.
But, particularly I desired the mate to see what
condition the poor passengers were in, and the
surgeon gave him a itcher of the same broth
which he had prepared) for the men. And being
curious to see this\scene of misery myself, I
took the captain (as we called the mate of the
ship) in our own boat, and sailed after them.
Here was a sad sight indeed! scarcely were
the victuals half boiled in the pot, but they
were ready to break open the cook»-room door.
To stay their stomachs, the mate gave them
biscuits, which were dipped and softened with
the liquor of the meat, which they called brewis;
telling them it was for their own safety, that he
was obliged to give them but a little at a time;
and so feeding them gradually their bellies were
comfortably lled, and the men did very well
again. But when they came to the oor gen-
tlewoman in the cabin, who for severalldays had
continued without food, giving what she had t0
her son, they found her as it were in the arms
of death. She was sitting upon the oor of the
deck, with her back up against the sides, be-
tween two chairs, which were lashed fast, and
her head shrunk between her shoulders, like a
senseless corpse. Nothing was wanting in my
mate to revive and encourage her; opening her
lips, and putting some broth into her mouth
with a spoon. But not having strength to
speak, she lifted up her head with much dilcul-
ty, intimating that it was now too late! at the
same time pointing to the youth, her son, as
though she desired him to do what he could to
save the lad; and, in a little time after she died.
The youth, indeed, was no§ so far gone, yet
lay stretched out on the cabin-bed, like one that
had scarce any life. In his mouth was a piece of
an old glove, the rest of which he had ate up.
At rst he vomited what the mate had given
him; but at length began sensibly to revive,
though in the greatest concern for the death of
his tender mother.
As to the poor maid, she lay by her mistress,
like one in the last pangs of death; her limbs
were distorted, one of her hands was clasped
round the frame of a chair, which she grasped
so hard, that it was with some diiculty we se-
parated her from it; her other arm lay overlher
head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin table; not only
being starved with hunger, but overcome with
grief at theloss of her mistress, whom sheloved
most tenderly. It was a great_ while before the
surgeon_ couldbrmg her to life, and. a much
longer time before she came to her.sens'es., ,
After we had sailed with them some days; we
sentftliem ve barrels;of3beef,‘ dneof pork, .,t'wo
‘ 1'
hogsheads of biscuit, with pease, our, and
other things; taking three casks of sugar, some
rum, and some pieces of eight as payment, we
left them, but took the youth and maid with us,
with all their goods. The lad was about seven-
teen years old, very handsome, modest, sensi-
ble, and well-bred, but mightily concerned for
the loss of his honored mother, having lost his
father at Barbadoes but a few months before.
He beseeched the surgeon to intercede with me
to take him out of the ship; for that the sailors
not sparing a small sustenance, had starved his
mother. And indeed the surgeon so represented
their case to me, that I consented, and took
them on board, with all their goods, except ele-
ven hogsheads of sugar; but the youth having
a bill of lading, I made the commander oblige
himself to deliver a letter and the deceased wi-
dow’s goods to Mr. Rogers, a merchant in Bris-
tol: but I believe the ship was lost at sea, for
we never could hear what became of her after-
wards. We were now in the latitude 19 deg.
32 min. having as yet a tolerable good voyage.
But, passing by several little incidents relating
to wind and weather, I shall relate what is most
remarkable concerning my little kingdom, to
which I was now drawing near. I had great dif-
oulty in nding it. But at length I came fair
on the south-side of my island, and then I pre-
sently knew the countenance of my little king-
dom; so we brought the ship safe to an anchor»
broadside within the creek, where stood my an-
cient and venerable‘ castle.
No sooner did I see the place, but calling’ 5°!‘
Friday, I asked him where he was; but Whit!
he looked a little, he clapped his hands, crying,
“O joy, O there! O yes, O there!” pointing
to our old abode, and then fell adancing and
capering, asif he was mad, and I had much ado
to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore. “ Friday,” said I, “ what do you think,
shall we go to see your father?” at the men-
tioning his father’s name, the poor affectionate
creature fell a weeping: “No, no,” says he,
“ me see him no more, never see poor father
more! he long ago die, die long ago; he much
old man.” “ You don't know that,” said I,
“ but shall we see any body else?” He looks
about, and pointing to the hill above my house,
cries out, “ We see there much men and there;”
which, though I could not perceive them with
my perspective glass, was true, by what the
men themselves told me the next day.
When the English ancient was spread, and
three guns red, as a signal of friendship, we
perceived a smoke rise from the creek: upon
which I ordered the boat out, taking Friday
with me, and hanging out a white ag of truce,
I went on shore, accompanied also by the young
friar, to whom I had related the history of the
rst part of my life; besides, we had sixteen
men well armed, in case we had met with any
opposition.
After we had rowed directly into the creek,
the rst man I xed my eye upon was the Spa-
mard, whose life I had saved, and whose face I
perfectly welt knew. I ordered them all to stay
in the boat fora while; but Friday, perceiving
his father at a distance, would have jumped into
the sea, had they not let the boat go; No
3
sooner was he on shore, but he ew like a swift
arrow out of a how to embrace his aged father.
Certainly it would melt a man of the rmest re-
solution into the softest tears, to see with what
uncommon transports of joy he_saluted him;
he rst kissed him, then stroked his face, took
-him in his arms, laid him under a shady tree,
sat down by him, then looked as earnestly at
him, as one would do at a picture, for a quarter
of an hour'together. His frolics ran in another
channel in the afternoon; when he set old Fri-
day on the ground, he would dance round him,
making comical postures and gestures; and all
this while would be telling him one story or
another of his travels and adventures. -
It was on the 10th of April, anno 1695, that
1 set my foot. upon the island a second time.
When my faithful Spaniard, accompanied by
one more, approached the boat, he little knew
who I was, till I discovered myself to him.
“ Signior,” said I, in Portuguese, “ don’t you
know me?" He spoke never a word, but giving
his musket to his attendant, extending his arms,
and saying something in Spanish that I did not
then understand, he came forward and embraced
me, saying, he was inexcusable not to know lns
deliverer, who, like an angel sent from heaven,
had saved his life. He then beckoned to the
man to call out his companions; asked me if I
would walk to my own habitations, and take
possession“, where I should nd some mean Im-
provements; but indeed they were extraordinary
ones; for they had planted“ so many .trees S0
‘close together, that the place was like a laby-
rinth,-which none could nd out except them-
selves, who knew its intricate windings. I asked
him the meaning of all these fortications; he
told me he would shortly give a full account of
what had passed since my departure till this
time. While we were thus talking, the man
whom he sent, retiimed, accompanied by eleven
more, but in such habits, that it was impossible
to tell what nations they were of. He rst
turned to me, and pointing to them, “These
sir,” said he, “ are some of the gentlemen who
owe their lives to your goodness;” then turning
to them, and pointing to me, he made them
sensible who I was; and then indeed they sa-
luted me one by one, not as ordinary men, but
as though they had been ambassadors, and I a
triumphant conqueror; for their behaviour not
only agreed with a man-like majestic gravity,
but at the same time was so obliging and cour-
teous, as made them agreeable to the last de-
ree.
g Before I relate the history of the transactions
of my kingdom, as I had it from the Spaniard’s
pwn mouth, I must here insert what I omitted
in my former relation. The matter is this:
Just before we weighed anchor and set sail, there
happened a _quarrel on board the ship, when the
captain fearing a_second mutiny, put two of the
most refi-actory_in irons, threatening, as they
were concerned in the former disorders, to have
them hanged in England for running away with
the ship. l3ut as this had brought us to an
anchor at _night, in which there was a calm,
the two prisoners broke from their irons, stole
each of them a musket, and some other wea-
P°"9» and taking the ship's pinnace, not yet
4
hauled up, ran away to their brother rogues.
And thus there were ve ~Englishmen in the
island, which caused great differences, as my
faithful Spaniard gave me a perfect account “of,
in the following manner:
“ You cannot, sir, but remember the embassy
you sent me about, and what a disappointment
we met with, by your absence at our return.
There is but little variety in the relation of all
our voyage, being blessed with calm weather,
and a smooth sea. Great indeed was the joy of
my countrymen to see me alive, as knowing I
was taken prisoner by the savages of another
nation, they had thought me long since en-
tombed in their monstrous bowels. But when
I showed them the arms, ammunition, and pro-
visions I had brought .for them, they looked
upon me as a deliverer, and immediately pre-
pared to come along with me. Indeed they
were obliged to trespass upon their friendly sa-
vages, by borrowing two of their canoes, under
a pretext for shing; and they came away the
next morning, but without any provisions of
their own, excepta few roots, which served them
instead of bread.--After three weel<.’s absence,
we arrived at our new habitation. Here we
met with three English sailors, who, l confess,
gave us provisions, and that letter of direction
you had left for us, which informed us how to
bring up tame goats, plant corn, cure grapes,
make pots, and, in short, every thing that was
necessary for our use. As I knew your method
best, so taking Friday’s father to assist me»
we managed all the affairs; nor were the rest of
the Spaniards wanting in their kind offices».
dressing food for the Englishmen, who did' no-
thing but ramble and divert themselves in the
woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tor-
toises. But we had not been long ashore, be-
fore we were informed of two more Englishmen,
turned out of their common place of residence,
by the three others above-mentioned; this made
my Spaniards and me (whom they now looked
upon as their governor in your absence) en»
deavour to persuade them to take them in, that
we might be as one family; but all our entrea-
ties were in vain, so that the poor fellows nding
nothing to be done without industry, pitched
their tents on the north side of the island, a lit-
tle inclining to the _west, for fear of savages.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge, and the
other to lay their stores in; they dug and planted
as you had done, and began to live comfortably.
But while they were thus prosperously going
on, the three brutes, their countrymen, insulted
them, by saying, the governor, (meaning you)
had given them possession of the island, and
they would take care they should build no
houses upon their ground, without paying rent.
One of the wretches snatching up a re-brand,
and clapping it to the outside of their hut, very
fairly set it on re, which would soon have con-
sumed it, had not the honest man thrust him
away, and trod it out with his feet. Hereupon
the fellow returns with a pole, with which he
would have ended his days, had not the poor
man avoided the blow, when fetching his musket,
he knocked down the villainthat began the
quarrel. The other two coming to assist their
fellow, obliged the‘ honest‘ man to take" his
musket also, and both of them presenting their
pieces, bade the villains stand off; and if they
did not lay down their arms death should decide
the dispute. This brought them to a parley,
in which they agreed to take their wounded man
arid begone: but they were in the wrong that
they did not disarm them when they had the
POWQI‘, and then make their complaint to me
and my Spaniards for justice, which might have
prevented their farther designs against them;
for so marry trespasses did they afterwards com-
mit, by treading down their corn, shooting
their young kids and goats, and plaguing them
night and day, that they resolved to come to
my castle, challenge all the three, and decide
their right by battle. One day it happened»
that two of my Spaniards being in the woods,
were met by one of the honest men, who com-
plained of the harbarity of his countrymen;
and when the Spaniards came home at night,
and supper being oir the table, one of them
began to repreheiid the Englishmeli, bf!‘ "1 @-
wery rriannerly way; which they resenting, re‘-
plied, ‘What business had their countrymen
iris that place wi'th'outT leave, when. it was none
of their ground P’ ‘ Why,’ said my Spaniard,
calmly, ‘ Iiiglise, they must not starvez’ but
they replied, ‘ Let them starve if they will,
they should neither plan-t nor build;they should
he their servants, and work for them, for the
island was" theirs, arid they would bum all the
hats they should nd in the island.’ ‘ By tin!
rule,’ said my Spaniard, smiling, ‘we shall lit:
your servants toe.’ ‘ Aye, Md =0 Y0" 'l'?“’*
replied the iiiipiideiit rascal. Upon wlmlb
n0B!Ns0N cnusos. 169
starting up, Will Atkins cries, ‘Come, Jack,
let’s have t’other brush with them, who dare
to huild in our dominions!’--Thus leaving us
something ‘heated with just passion, away they
trooped, every man having a gun, pistol, and
sword, muttering some threatening words, that
we but imperfectly understood. That night they
designed to murder their two companions; and
slept till midnight in the bower, thinking to fall
upon them in their sleep; nor were the honest
men less thoughtful concerning them; for at
this juncture they were coming to nd them
out, but in a much fairer way. As soon as the
villains came to the huts, and found nobody
there, they concluded that I and my Spaniard
had given them notice, and therefore swore to
be revenged. They accordingly ‘demolished the
poor men’s habitations; not by re, but by
pulling down their huts limb from limb, broke
their household stuff in’ pieces, tore up their
trees, spoiled their inclosure, and in short,
quite ruined them. Had these people met to-
gether,‘ no doubt but there would have been a
bloody battle; but Providence ordered it other-
wise; for just as the three met togethee, the
two were at our castle; and when they left us,
the three came hack again, but in a great rage;
when one taking hold of a Spaniard’-s hat, iwirls
it Tlmlh saying, ‘And you, Sleignior Jack
Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you
don’! mend your manners.’ My Spaniard, a
grave, but courageous man, knocked him down
with one blow of his st; at which another vil-
hm red his pistol, and narrowly missed his
body, but wounded him a little in the ear.
Q
Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes up his fel-
low’s musket whom he had knocked down, and
would have shot him, if I and the rest had not
come out, and taken their arms from every one
of them.
“ These Englishmen perceiving they had made
all of us their enemies, began to cool; but not-
withstanding their bitter words, the Spaniards
would not return them their arms again, telling
them they would do them no manner of harm,
if they would live peaceably; but if they offered
any injury to the plantation or castle, they
would shoot them. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like furies. They
were no sooner gone, but in came the two ho-
nest men, red with the justest rage, if such
can be, having being ruined as aforesaid. And
indeed it was very hard, that nineteen of us
should be bullied by three villains, continually
offending with impunity.
“ It was a great while, sir, before we could
persuade the two Englishmen from pursuing,
and undoubtedly killingthem with their fire-
arms; but we promised them justice should be
done them: and, in the mean time, they should
reside withus in our habitation. In about ve
days after, these three vagrants, almost starved
with hunger, drew near our grove, and perceiv-
ing me .(t-he governor) and» two others walking
by the side of the creek, they very submissively
desired to be received into» the family again.
We told them of their great-incivility» to us, and
of their unnatural barbarity to their coun.try-
men; but after some debate, we called them
in, where their two countrymen laid a heavy’
charge against them, for not only ruining, but
designing to murder them, which they could
not deny. But here I was forced to interfere
as a mediator, by obliging the two Englishmen
not to hurt them, being naked and unarmed;
and that the other three should make them re-
stitution, by building their two huts, and fenc-
ing their ground in the same manner as it was
before. Well, being in a miserable condition,
they submitted, and lived some time regularly
enough, but their arms being given them again,
they scarce had them a week when they became
as troublesome as ever; when an accident hap-
pening soon after, obliged us to lay aside pri-
vate rcsentments, and look to our common pre-
servation. I
" One night, sir, I went to bed, perfectly
well in health, and yet by no means could I
compose myself to sleep; upon which, being
very uneasy, I got up and looked out; when
one of my Spaniards hearing me walk about,
asked the occasion, ‘ Sir,’ said I, ‘certainly
there is some mischief plotting against us; some
kind. spirit gives this information for advantage.
Come let us go abroad, and see if any thing
offers to justify our fears. Upon which I and
some of my Spaniards went up the hill, through
the grove, and then we were struck with a panic
on seeing a light, as though it were a re at a
very little distance, and hearing the voices of
several men. Hereupon we retreated immedi-
ately, and raised the rest of our forces, and
made them sensible of the impending danger.
As they were in different parties, and straggling
over. the sllore, we were much afraid that they
should nd out our habitations, and destroy our
ocks: to prevent which, we sent immediately
an Englishman and two Spaniards to drive the
goats into the valley where the cave lay; or, if
there was occasion, into the cave itself; and
before it was very light, we sent out Friday’s
father as a spy, who stripping himself_ naked,
got among them undiscovered, and in two
.hour’s time brought word, that they were two
parties of two different nations, who lately hav-
ing a bloody battle with one another, happened
by mere chance to land in the same island, to
devour their miserable prisoners; but they were
entirely ignorant of any persons inhabiting here;
but rather being lled with rage and fury against
one another, he believed, that as soon as day-
light appeared, there would be a terrible en-
gagement. Old Friday hado scarce ended his
relation, when we heard an uncommon noise,
and perceived that there was a horrid engage-
ment between the two parties.
“Such was the curiosity of our party, espe-
cially the Englishmen, that they would not lie
close, though old Friday told them their safety
depended upon it; and that if we had patience,
we should behold the savages kill one another.
However they used some caution, by going
farther into the woods, and placing themselves
in a convenient place to behold the battle.
“ Never could there be a more bloody engage-
ment, or men of more invincible spirits, a-
cording to their manner of ghting. It lasted
nearly two hours, till the arty which was nearest
our castle began to decline,-and at last to 33
from their conquerors. We were put into gr?“
consternation on this account, lesttthey should
run into our grove, and bring us into danger.
lrlereupon we resolved to kill the rst that came,
to prevent discovery, and that too with our
swords, and the butt-end of our muskets, for
fear the report of our guns should be heard.
“ And so indeed, it happened; for three of
the vanquished party crossing the creek, ran
directly to the place, as to a thick wood for
shelter; nor was it long before our scout gave
us notice of it; as also that the victors did
not think t to pursue them. Upon this I
would not suffer them to be slain, but had them
surprised and taken by our party; afterwards
they proved-very good servants to us, being
stout young creatures, and able to do a great
deal of work. The remainder of the conquered
savages fled to their canoes, and put out into
the ocean, while the conquerors, Joining toge-
ther, shouted by way of triumph, and about
three in the afternoon they alsoembarked for
their own country. Thus we were freed at once
from those savages and our fears, not perceiv-
ing any of these creatures for some considerable
time after. We found two-and-thirty men dead
in the eld of battle; some were slain with long
arrows, which we ‘found sticking in their bodies;
and the rest were killed with great .unweildy
wooden swords, which denoted their vast
strength, and of which we found seventeen,
l)CSl(l9S hows and arrows; but we could not nd
one wounded creature among them alive; for
they either kill theirfenemies quite, or carry
those wounded away with them.. - , ,
» “ This terrible sight Igamed the Englishmen
Q.
for some time; indeed it made them more tract-
able to the common necessary business of the
whole society, planting, sowing, and reaping,
with the greatest signs of amity and friendship;
so that being now all good friends, we began
to consider of circumstances in general; and
the rst thing we thought of was, whether, as
we perceived the savages haunted that side of
the island, and there being more retired parts
of it, and yet as well suited to our manner of
living, and equally to our advantage, we ought
not rather to move our lace of residence, and
plant it in a much safer place, both for the
security of our corn and cattle.
“ After a long debate on this head, it was re-
solved, not to remove our ancient castle, and
that for this very good reason, that some time
or other we expected to hear from our supreme
governor, (meaning you, sir) whose messengers
not nding us there, might think the place de-
molished, and all his subjects destroyed by the
savages.
" But though we could not change our habi-
tation, we resolved to make it more fortied
and more secure. To this end, sir, as you
planted trees at some distance before the en-
trance of your palace, so we imitating your ex-
ample, planted and lled up the whole space of
ground, even. to the banks of the creek, nay,
into the very ooze where the tide owed, not
leavinga place for landing; andl among those I
had planted, they had intermmgled so many
short -ones, all of which growing wonderfelf!
fast and thick, _a little dog could; scarcely find 8
passage through them: we dndthc same 10'8"
the ground on the right and left hand of us,
even to the top of the hill, without so much as
leaving a passage for ourselves, except by the
ladder, which being taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcraft could come near
us. And indeed this was exceedingly well con-
trived, as we afterwards found it.
“ Thus we lived two years in a happy retire-
ment, having, all this time, not one visit from
the savages. But now there happened another
quarrel between the_three wicked Englishmen,
and some of my Spaniards; one of them being
enraged at one of the savages, whom he had
taken prisoner, for not being able to compre-
hend something which he was showing him,
snatched up a hatchet in a great fury, not to
correct, butto kill him; yet missing his head,
gave him such a barbarous cut in the shoulder,
that he had like to have struck o’ his arm»; at
which a Spaniard interposing between the Eng.
lishman and the savage, heseeehed the former
not to murder the poor creature; but this kind-
ness had like to have cost the Spaniard his life,
for the Englishman struck at him in the same
manner; which he nimbly avoiding, returned
suddenly upon him with his shovel, being all at
work about their corn land) and very fairly
knocked the brutish creature down. Hereupon,
another Englishman coming to his fellow’s as-
sistance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth;
when immediately two others coming to his re-
lief, were attacked by the third Ehglisl|ma,r|
rmed with an old cutlass, who wounded theni
both. '_I_~‘h1s uproar soon reached our ears, when,
V“ '“'l""8 out upon them, took‘ thethree Eng-
lishmen prisoners, and then our next question
was, what should be done to such mutinous and
impudent fellows.
“Now, sir, as I was governor in your ab-
sence, so I also took the authority of a judge:
and, having them brought before me, I told
them, that if they had been of my country, I
would have hanged every mother’s son of them;
but, since it was an Englishman, (meaning you,
kind sir) to whom we were indebted for our
preservation and deliverance, I would, in grati-
tude, use them with all possible mildness; but,
at the same time, leave them to the judgment of
the other two Englishmen, who, I hoped, for-
getting their resentments, would deal impartially
by them.
“ Hereupon, one of their countrymen stood
up; ‘ Sir,’ said he, leave it not to us, for you
may be sensible we have reason to sentence them
to the gallows; besides, sir, this fellow, Will
Atkins, and the two others, proposed to us,
that we might murder you all in your sleep,
which we could not consent to; but knowing
their inability and your vigilance, we did not
think t to discover it before now.’
“ The two Englishmen and the Spaniard,
who had saved the poor lndian’s life, mightily
-petitioned me to hang one of them for an ex-
ample to the others, which should‘ be him that
had twice attempted to commit murder with
liishatchet, it being at that time thought im-
possible’/for the poor ‘slave torecover. -B_l1t
they could never gain my consent to put lilm
to death, for the reasons above-mentioned» Sin?“
it was an Englishman (even yourself) who was
my deliverer; and as merciful counsels are most
prevailing when earnestly pressed, so I got them
to be of the same opinion as to clemency. But
to prevent them doing us any further mischief,
we all agreed, that they should have no weapons,
as sword, gun, powder, or shot, but be expelled
from the society, to live as they pleased by
themselves; that neither the two Englishmen,
nor the rest of the Spaniards, should have con-
versation with them upon any account what-
soever; that they should be kept from coming
within a certain distance of our castle; and if
they dared to offer us any violence, either by
spoiling,‘ burning, killing, or destroying any
of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle, belonging to the society, we would shoot
them as freely as we would do beasts of prey, in
whatsoever places we should nd them.
“ This sentence seemed very just to all but
themselves; when, like a merciful judge, I
called out to the two honest Englishmen, say~
ing, ‘ You must consider they ought not to be
starved neither, and since it will be some time
before they can raise corn and cattle of their
own, let us give them some corn to last them
eight months, and for seed to sow, by which
time they’ll raise some for themselves; let us
also bestow upon them six milch goats, four he
ones, and six kids, as well for their present
support, as for a farther increase; with tools
necessary for their work, as hatchets, an axe,
93", arid other things to build them huts.
Thus dismissing them from our society, they
weft‘ away. sullen and refractory, as though
neither willing to go nor stay; however, seeing
R
no remedy, they took what provision was given
them, promising to choose a convenient place
where they might live by themselves.
“ About ve days after, they came to those
limits appointed, in order for more vietuals, and
sent me word by one of my Spaniards, whom
they called to, where they had pitched their
tents, and marked themselves out a habitation
and plantation, -at the N. E. and most remote
part of the island. - And, indeed, there they
built themselves two very handsome cottages,
resembling our little castle, being under the side
of, a mountain, with some trees already growing
on three sides of it; so that planting a few
more, it would be obscured from sight, unless
particularly sought for. When these huts were
finished, we gave them some dry goat-skins for
bedding and covering; and upon their giving us
fuller assurances of their goodbehaviour for the
future, we gave them some peas, barley, and
rice for sowing, and whatever tools we could
spare. . _
= “Six months did they live-in this separate
condition, in which they got their rst harvest
in, the quantity of which was but small, be-
cause they had planted but little land; for in-
deed, all their plantations being to form, made it
more difficult, especially as itwas a thing out of
their element; and when they were obliged to
make their boards and pots, &c. they could
make little or nothing of it. . But the rainy sea-
son coming on, put them~into a greater psi‘-
plexity, for want of a cave _t_o keep their corn
.dry, and prevent it from spoiling; and so imlll
_did this humble them, that they begged of mi’
Spaniards to help them, to which the good na-
tured men readily consented, and in four day’s
space, worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, large enough for theirpurpose, to
secure their corn and other things from the rain,
though not comparable to ours, which had se-
veral additional apartments. .
“ But a new whim ‘possessed these rogues
about three quarters of a year after, which had
like to have ruined us, and themselves too; for
it seems, being tired and weary of this sort of
living, which made them work for themselves,
without hopes of changing their condition, no-
thing would serve them, but that they would
make a voyage to the continent, and try if they
could sieze upon some of the savages, and bring
them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, while
they lived at ease and pleasure!
“ Indeed the project was not so preposterous,
if they had not gone farther; but they neither
did nor proposed any-thing, but what had mis-
chief in the design, or the event.--One morn-
ing, these three fellows came down to the limited
station, and humbly desired to be admitted to
talk with us, which we readily granted; they
told us, in short, that being tired of their,man-
ner of living, and the labour of their hands in
such employments not being sufficient to pro-
cure the necessaries, of life, they only desired
one of the canoes we came over in, with some
arms and ammunition for their defence, and
they would seek their fortunesabroad, and I13-
ver trouble us any more. - To be sure, we were
glad enough to get rid of such wretched plagues,
but yet honesty made us mgenuously represent
S
to them, by what we ourselves had suffered,
the certain destruction they were running into,
either of being starved to death or murdered by
the savages. To this they very audaciously re-
plied, that they neither could nor would work;
and consequently that they might as well be
abroad as at home; and as to their falling into
the hands of the savages, why, if they were
murdered, that was nothing to us, there was an
end of them: neither had they any wives or
children to cry after them : nay, so intent were
they upon their voyage, that if the Spaniards
had not given them arms, so they had but the
canoe, they would have gone without them.
“ Though we could not well spare our re-
arms, rather than they should go like naked
men, we let them have two muskets,_a pistol,
a cutlass, three hatchets, which ‘ were thought
very sufcient; we also gave them goat's esh,
a great basket full of dried grapes, a pot of
fresh butter, a young live kid, and a large ca-
noe suicient to carry twenty men. And thus,
with a mast made of a long pole, and a sail of
six large goats’-skins dried, having a fair breeze,
and ood-tide with them, they merrily sailed
away, the Spaniards calling_after them, Ban
voyqjo, no man ever expecting to see them
ITIOPB.
~ " When they were gone, /the Spaniards and
Englishmen would often say to one another,
1 0" how peaceably do we now live, since those
turbulent fellows have left us!’--Nothing’ could
be farther from their thoughts than tobehotd
their faces any more; and yet scarce two-and-
twenty days had passedover their heads,.but
I 5 f ~,.
one of the Englishmen, being abroad a plant-
ing, (perceived at a distance, three men, well
arme , approaching towards him. Away he
flies with speed to our castle, and tells me and
the rest, that we were all undone, for that
strangers were landed upon the island, and who
they were he could not tell; but added, that
they were not savages, but men habited, bear-
ing arms. Why then, said I, we have the less
occasion to be concerned, since, if they were
not Indians, they must be friends; for I am
sure there is no Christian people upon earth,
but what would do us good rather than harm.
But while we were considering of the event, up
came the three Englishmen; whose voices we
quickly knew, and so all our admiration of that
nature ceased at once. And our wonder was
succeeded by another sort of inquiry, which was
what could he the occasion of their returning so
quickly to the island, when we little expected,
andlmuch less desired, their company; but as
this was better to be related by themselves, I or-
dered them to be brought in, when they gave
me the following relation of their voyage.
“ ‘ After two days’ sail, or something less,
they reached land, where they found the people
coming to give them another sort of reception
than what they expected or desired; for, as the
savages were armed with bows and arrows, they
durst not venture on shore, but steered north-
wards, six or seven hours, till they gained an
opening, by which they plainly perceived, that
the land that a peared from this place, was not
the mill" llli but an island. At their en-
trance into the opening of the sea, they disco-
R
vercd another island on the right hand north-
ward, and several more lying to the westward;
but being resolved to go on shore somewhere
or other, they put over to one of the western
islands. Here they found the natives very
courteous to them, giving them several roots
and dried sh; nay, even to supply them with
what they could procure them to eat, bringing
it a great way to them upon their heads.
Among those hospitable Indians they continued
some days, inquiring, by signs and tokens,
what nations lay round them: and were in-
formed, that there were several erce and ter-
rible people lived every way, accustomed to eat
mankind: (but for themselves they never used
such diet, except those that were taken in bat-
tle, and of them they made a solemn feast.
“ The Englishmen enquired how long it was
since -they had a feast of that kind; they an-
swered, about two moons ago, pointing to the
moon, and then two ngers; that at this "time,
their king had two hundred prisoners, which
were fattening up for the slaughter. The Eng-
lishmen were mighty desirous of seeing the
prisoners, which the others mistaking, thought
that they wanted some of them for their own
food; upon which they beckoned to them,
pointing to the rising, and then to the setting
of the sun, meaning, that by the time it ap-
eared in the east next morning, they would
ring themjsome; and indeed they were as
good as their word; for by that time they
brought eleven men and ve women, just as so
many cows and oxen are brought ‘to sea-port
towns, to victual a ship. But as brutish as
these Englishmen were, their stomachs turned
at the sight. What to do in this ease, they
could not tell: to refuse the prisoners would
have been the highest affront offered to the sa-
vage gentry; and to dispose of them, they
knew not in what manner; however they re-
solved to accept them, and so gave them, in
return, one of their hatchets, an old key, a
knife, and six or seven of their bullets; things
which, though they were wholly ignorant of,
they seemed entirely contented with; and drag-
ging the poor wretches into the boat, with their
hands bound behind them, delivered them to
the Englishmen. But this obliged them to put
oft‘ as soon as they had these presents, lest the
donors should have expected “two or three of
them killed, and to be invited to dinner the
next. day; and so taking leave with all possible
respect and thanks, though neither of them
understood what the others said, they sailed
away back to the rst island, and there set
eight of the prisoners at liberty. In their voy-
age they endeavoured to comfort and have some
conversation with the poor captives; but it was
impossible to make them sensible of any thing;
and nothing they could say or’ give, or do for
them, could make them otherwise ersuaded,
but that they were unbound only to lie devour-
ed; if they looked at any one more particularly,
the poor creature supposed itself to be the rst
sacrifice: and even when we brought them to
our island. and began to use them with the
greatesthumanity and kindness, theyeexpected
every day that their new masters would devour
thenn’ .
“ And thus, sir, did these three strange wan-
derers conclude the unaccountable relation of
theirvoyage, which was both amazing and en-
i8I‘l;&lIllIlg'. Hereupon I asked them, where
their new family was; they told me, they had
put them into one of their huts, and they came
to beg some victuals for them. a This, indeed,
made us all long to see them; and taking Fri-
day’s father with us, leaving only two at our
611836, We came down to behold these poor
creatures.
- “ When we arrived at the hut, we found them
stark naked; they were three lusty men, well
shaped, with straight and good limbs, between
thirty and ve-and-thirty years old; and ve
women, two of them might be from thirty to
forty, W0 more not above four-and-twenty;
and the last, a comely tall maiden of about
seventeen. Indeed all the women were very
agreeable, both in proportion and features, ex-
cept, that they were tawny, which their modest
behaviour, and other graces, made amends for
when they afterwards came to be clothed.
“ But now, sir, having women amongst us,
and dreading that it might occasion some strife,
if not blood, ‘ Gentlemen,’ said I, ‘ I am not
going to restrain you; but, methinks, for avoid-
ing dissentions among you, I would desire you
to engage, that none of you will take more
than one woman, and that having taken this
one, none else should presume to touch her;
for it is but reasonable, that whoever thus takes
a woman, should be obliged to maintain her,
since nobody has any thing to do with her; and
this, indeed, appeared so just to all present,
that it was unanimously agreed to. They set
the ve women in one of their huts, and going
themselves to the other, drew lots which should
have the rst choice. Now he that had the rst
lot went to the hut, and fetched out her he
chose; and it is remarkable, that he took her
that was the most homely and eldest of the
number, but, as it happened, the fellow had
the best thought, in choosing one t for appli-
cation and business; and, indeed, she -proved
the best wife of all the parcel.
“ Well, after this, the Englishmen went to
work, and being assisted by the Spaniards, in a
few hours erected a new hut, or tent, for their
separate lodging, since those they had already
were lled with tools, household stu} and pro-
vision. They all continued on the north shore
of the island, but separate as before: the three
worst pitched farther off, and the two honest
men nearer our castle; so that the island seemed
to he peopled in three places, three towns being
built for that purpose. And here I cannot but
remark, that from this moment we all lived in
perfect harmony.
“ But now, sir, I come to lay before your
eyes a scene quite different from any thing-that
ever happened before, or that perhaps ever befel
you in all the time of your residence on the
island. One morning, sir, there came ve or
six canoes of Indians on shore, upon their old
custom of devouring their prisoners. All ‘that
we had to do upon such an occasion, was to lie
concealed; all the ‘-three plantations 'were~ to
keep within doors, and a proper scout was to
be placed to give intelligeénce of their departure
R.
But, notwithstanding these wise measures, an
unhappy disaster discovered us to the savages,
which was like to have caused the desolation of
the whole island; for, after the savages were
gone off in their canoes, some of us inamed
with a curiosity to see what they had been do-
ing, to our great amazement beheld three sa-
vages fast asleep on the ground, who, being
gorged, could not awake when the others went
oft‘. What to do with them we could not tell,
however, we all went back, and took them
prisoners. We rst took them to the bower,
where the chief of our country work lay, as keep-
ing goats, planting corn, &c. and then carried
them to the two Englishmen’s habitation, to
help them in their business; but happy it was
for us all we did not carry them to our castle.
The Englishmen,’ indeed, found them work to
do; but whether they guarded them strictlyor
not, I cannot tell; but one of them ran away
into. the woods, and they could not hear of him
for a long time after.
“ Undoubtedly he got home in some of the
canoes, the savages returning in about four
weeks’ time, and going off in the, space of two
days. You may be certain, sir, this thought
could not but terrify us exceedingly, and make
us justly conclude, that the savage would in-
form his countrymen of our abode in the island,
bow few and weak we were in comparison to
their numbers; and we expected it would not
be long before the Englishmen would be at-
tacked in their habitations: :".Dr»;,were we mI_8-
taken, for about eight months after this. 811'»
canoes, with about tenrmen‘ in each can_0B,
~ ‘ ‘i
came sailing by the north side of the island,
and landed about an hour after sun-rise,_ near a
mile from the dwelling of the two Englishmen,
who, it seems, had the good fortune to_discover
them about a league off. And now being c_0n-
firmed in this opinion that they were certainly
betrayed, they immediately bound the two
slaves which were left, causing two of the three
men, whom they brought with the women, and
who proved very faithful, to lead them with their
wives, and other conveniences, into their retired
cave in the wood. They then sent the other
slave of the three, who had been with them by
accident, to alarm the Spaniards, and desire
assistance; in the mean time they took their
arms and made to the cave where they had sent
their wives, and seated themselves in a private
place, from whence they might behold all the
actions of the savages. Nor had they gone far,
when ascending a rising ground, they could see
their beautiful dwelling in a consuming ame;
and the savages here and there, searching every
bush and place for the people, of whom it was
evident they had information. Upon which the
two Englishmen retreated about half a mile
higher in the country, they took their stand by
the trunk of an old hollow tree, whence they
could see what would offer; but they had not
stood long there, before two savages came to-
wards them; a little farther were three more,
and ve more behind them again, all running
the same way. The poor men seeing them thus
3¢W?1‘@ll, resolved to resist them as long as
theirlainmunition lasted. Thus xed instheir
resolution, they took them in a direct line, as
they approached nearer. While they were wait-
ing, the savages came on, one of them wasthe
runaway, who had caused all the mischief; so
they resolved he should not escape if they both
red at once. But the rst that let y, was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for he killed
the foremost out-right, the second (who was
the runaway Indian) fell to the ground, being
shot through the body, but not dead, and the
third was a little wounded in the shoulder, who,
fell a screaming in a most fearful manner. The
noise of the guns so much terried the re sa-
vages hehind, that they stood still at rst, like
so many inanimate images. But they soon
came to the place were their companions lay,
and not being sensible that they were liable to
the same fate, stood over the wounded man, as
if enquiring the occasion of the calamity. By
this time, the Englishmen having loaded their
pieces, red both together a second time, and
seeing them all fall on the ground, they rushed
up boldly to them, and when they came to the
place, found four alive; they rst knocked the
runaway savage on the head, and another that
was but little wounded in the arm, and then
put the other languishing wretches out of their
am.
P “ Well, now they were as much concerned as
ever, as not knowing how near their enemies
might be, or in what numbers. Immediately
they repaired to the cave, to see if all was well
there, and found every thing safe. They had
not been long here, before seven ofmy Spa"
niards came to assist them; while the other ten»
their servants, and Friday's father, were gone iv
defend their bower, corn, and cattle, in case the
savages should have rambled so far. _
“ So much encouraged were the Englishmen
at the approach of the Spaniards, that they had
not patience to stay any longer; but taking ve
Spaniards along with them, armed with muskets,
away they went in pursuit of their enemies.
As they passed by the place where the savages
were slain, it was very easy to be perceived that
more of them had been there, having attempted
to carry off their dead bodies, but found it im-
practicahle. From a rising ground, our party
plainly perceived that the savages had embarked
in their canoes, and were putting out to sea.
This they were sorry to sec, but, however, they
were glad enough to get clear of such unwel-
come guests.
“ Thus the two honest but unfortunate Eng-
lishmen, heiiig ruined a second time, and their
improvements quite destroyed, most of my
good-natured Spaniards helped them to rebuild,
and we all assisted them with needful supplies;
nay, what is more remarkable, their three mis-
chievous countrymen, very friendly worked for
them several days; so that in a little time their
habitations were rebuilt, their necessities sup-
plied, and themselves restored to their former
tranquillity.
“ Though the savages had nothing to boast of
in this adventure, yet it was natural to be sup-
posed, that those who gaiiied their native shore
would iname their nation to another attempt.
with a greater force to carry all before them,
And, indeed, so it happened: for about seven
months after, our island was invaded with a
I
most formidable navy, no less than eight-and
twenty canoes full of savages, armed with
wooden swords, monstrous clubs, bows and ar-
rows, and such like instruments of war, land-»
ing at the east end of the island.
“ You may well, sir, imagine, what conster-
nation our men were in upon this account;
however, as there was no time to lose, we took
proper precautionary measures. Early the next
morning, the Indians, leaving their canoes at
the east end of the island, came running along
the shore, about two hundred and fty in num-
ber, as near as could be guessed. Our army
was indeed but little; and what was our great-
est misfortune, we had not arms sutcient for
them. The account, as to the men, sir, is as
follows, viz. 17 Spaniards, 5 Englishmen, old
Friday, the three savages, taken with the ve
women, and three other slaves, living with
the Spaniards. To arm these, they had ll
muskets, 5 pistols, 3 fowling-pieces, 2 swords»
3 old halberts, 5 muskets, or fowling-(pieces,
taken from thesailors whom you reduce . AS
to the slaves, we gave three of them halberts,
and the others, three long staves, with great
iron spikes at the end of them, with hatchel
by their sides: we also had liatcliets sticking H1
our girdles, besides the re arms; nay, W" of
the women could not be dissuaded from ght-
ing along with their dear husbands. S@§m-3'
their resolution, we gave them hatchets llli’
wise.
“ Over this army, which, though little, W??-
of great intrcpidity, I was constituted °l;",‘;'I
general and coininander; and knowing l‘
‘Rt
Atkins, to be a man of invincible courage, I
gave him the power of commanding under me;
he had six men with their muskets loaded with
six or seven bullets a piece, and were planted
just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an ad-
vanced guard, having orders to let the rst pass
by; and then, when he red into the middle of
them, make a nimble retreat round a part of
the wood, and so come in the rear of the Spa-
niards, who were shaded by a thicket of trees;
for, though the savages came on with the erce-
ness of lions, yet they were out of all manner
of order, and straggling inheaps every way:
and, indeed, when Will Atkins, after fty of
the savages had passed by, had ordered three of
his men to give re, so great was their conster-
nation, to see so many men killed and wounded,
and hear such a dreadful noise, and yet knew
not whence it came, that they were frightened
to the highest degree; and when the second
volley was given, they concluded no less but
that their companions were slain by thunder and
lightning from Heaven. However, they let y
their arrows, wounded Atkins himself, and
killed his fellow Englishman, and one of the
Indians taken with the women. Our party did
not fail to answer them, and in their retreat
killed about twenty savages. As Atkins re-
"@=1iBll,_ Our party advanced, to interpose be-
tween him and the savages; but after three vol-
leys, we were obliged to retreat also; they were
so numerous and desperate: they did not, how-
ever, think t to follow us, but drawing them.
selves up in a circle, they gave two shouts.
“ After I had drawn up my little army toge...
ther, upon a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as
he was, would have had us attack the whole bo-
dy of the savages at once. I was extremely
well pleased with the gallantry of the man: but
upon consideration, I replied, ‘You perceive,
Seignior Atkins, how their wounded men ght;
let them alone till morning, when they will he
faint, stiff and sore, and then we shall have
fewer to combat with,’ and so we tarried.
“ By the brightness of the moon that night,
we perceived the savages in great disorder about
their dead and wounded men. This made us
change our resolution, and resolve to fall upon
them in the night, if we could give them one
volley undiscovered. This we had a fair oppor-
tunity to do, by one of the Englishmen leading
us round, between the woods and the sea-side
westward, and turning short south, came pri-
vately to a place where the thickest of them
were. Unheard and unperceived, eight of us
red among them, and did dreadful execution;
and in half a minute after, eight more of us let
y, killing and wounding abundance of them;
and then dividing ourselves into three bodies,
eight persons in each body, we marched from
among the trees, to the very teeth of the ene-
my, sending forth the greatest shouts and ac-
clamations. The savages hearing a d|f_ferent
noise from three quarters at once, stood in the
utmost confusion; but rushing in among them,
we again red three several ways, and then fell
to work with our swords, staves, hatchets, "mi
the butt-ends of our muskets, with a fury not
to be resisted; so that with the most (llSm8l
screaming and howling, they had recourse to
their feet, to save their lives by a speedy flight.
Nor must we forget the valour of the two wo-
men; for they exposed themselves to the great-
est dangers, killed many with their arrows, and
valiantly destroyed several more with their
hatchets.
" In ghting these two battles, we were so
much tired, that we did not then trouble our-
selves to pursue them to their canoes, in which
we thought they would presently put to the
ocean; but there happening a dreadful storm at
sea, which continuing all that night, it not on-
ly prevented their voyage, but dashed several ot
their boats to pieces against the beach, and
drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it
required innite labour to get them ol The
next morning when we came to the beach and
saw what had happened, we could had rather at
rst, have wished that the weather had per-
mitted them to have gone off to sea; but when
we considered that their escape might occasion the
approach of multitudes, t.o our utter ruin and
desolation, we were very well pleased the con~
trary had happened: Will Atkins (who, though
wounded, would not part from us all this while)
advised us not to let slip this advantage, but
clapping between them and their boats, deprive
them of the capacity of ever returning to plague
the island: ‘ for (said he) we had better have to
do with an hundred men, whom we can kill, or
make slaves of at leisure, than with an hundred
nations, whom it is impossible we should save
Oufstilves “Om, much less subdue.’ This ad-
vice, and these arguments being approved of,
we set tire to their boats. As soon as the lu-
s
dians perceived what we were doing, many of
them ran out of the woods, in sight of us, and
kneeling down, seemed to beg of us not to de-
stroy their canoes. But perceiving their com-
plaints, subinissions, and entreaties were in vain,
they raised a lamentable cry, and ran into the
woods, where they continued ranging about,
making the woods ring with their lamentations.
Having a little recovered from OH; late hia-
rassing condition, we now came to t e reso u-
tion to drive the savages up to the farther part
of the island. Accordingly we pursued them
with our guns, at the hearing gig wlgjch thpy
were so terried, t at the wouc fa to t ie
ground. Every day we killed and wounded
some, and many were found starved to death,
so that our hearts began to relent at the sight of
such miserable objects. At last with great dif-
culty, taking one of them alive, and using him
with kindness, and tenderness, we brought him
old Friday who talked to him, and_told them
how good we would he to them all, giving them
corn and land to plant and live in, and present
nourishment, provided they would keep within
such bounds as shall be allotted them, and not
do rejudice to others; ‘ Go then,’ said he, ‘and
infdim your countrymen of thisf; lVhl"l1Cl1, lllf hgy
will not agree to, every one o em s a e
slain.
“ The poor creatgres, glhoroughly humlglriili
bein reduced to a out t irty-seven, joy ii y
accegted the offer, and elarnegtly begged fog fotcélg
hereu on we sent twe ve paniar s an _
Englighmen, well armed, together with old FH-
day, and three Indian slaves loaded with a-large
quantity of bread and rice cakes, with three live
goats; and the poor Indians being ordered to
set down on the side of the hill, they ate the
vietuals very thankfully, and have proved faith-
ful to the last, never trespassing beyond their
hounds, where at this day they quietly and hap-
pily remain, and where we now and then visit
them. We gave them twelve hatchets, and
three or four knives; have taught them to build
huts, make wooden spades, plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats and milk them, as like-
wise to make wicker-work, in which I must con-
fess they innitely out do us; and now they live
the most innocent and inoffensive creatures that
ever were subdued in the world, wanting nothing
but wives to make them a nation.
“Thus, kind sir, have Igiven you an account
of the various transactions that have happened
in the island since your departure, to this day;
and we have great reason to acknowledge the
kind providence of Heaven in our merciful deli-
verance. When you inspect your little kingdom
you will nd in it some little improvement, your
ocks increased, and your subjects augmented,
so that from a desolate island, as this was before
your wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a
visible prospect of its becoming a populous and
well-governed little kingdom, to your immortal
fame and glory.”
There is no doubt to suppose but that the pre-
ceding relation of my faithful Spaniard was very
agreeable, and no less surprising to me, to the
young priest, and to all who heard it: nor were
these people less pleased with those necessary
utensi s that I brought them, such as the knives,
scissars, spades, shovels, and pick-axes, with
which they now adorned their liabitations.
So much had they addicted themselves.to
wicker-work, prompted by the ingenuity of the
Indians, who assisted them, that when I viewed
the Englishmen’s colonies, they seemed at a dis-
tance as though ihey had lived like bees in a
hive; RS for Will Atkins, who has now become a
very industrious and sober man, he made liim-
self a tent of basket-work round the outside;
n\;;lls.p]r1ere wplrked '11], ap abaskhetinlpannelesci
wi woo en ms, rom w ici ie raise
a pyramid for the roiiif, mighty pretty, I assure
you, and joined very well together with iron
spikes, which lie made himself; for he had
made him a forge, with a pair of wooden hel-
Iows, and charcoal for his work, forming an an-
vil out of one of the iron crows, to work upon,
and in this manner would he make himself
hooks, staples, spikes, bolts, and hinges. In
short nothing could be built more ingeniously,
kept more neat, or have better conveniences;
and here lived the three families, Will Atkins,
hlis codmpantiog, (tiheir wlives and children, and
tie wi ow o tie ecease .
None‘ of their children were then above six
years 0 d; they were all fruitful enough, and I
think the cook’s inate’s wife was big of her
sixth child.
I shall now inform the reader what I did for
them and in what condition I left them. As we
were all of opinion that as the savages would
scarce trouble them any more, so we had no ap-
prehensions on that score, I told them I was
come purely to establish, and not to remove
them; and upon that occasion, had not only
brought them necessaries for convenience and
defence, but also articers, and other persons,
both for their necessary employments, and to
add to their number. They were all together
when I thus talked to them; and before I deli-
vered to them the stores I brought, I asked
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot
their rst animosities, would engage in the
strictest friendship, and shake hands with one
another?’ On this Will Atkins, with abundance
of good humour, said, they had had afllictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies
enough to make them all friends: As for the
Spaniards, they said, Will had behaved himself
so valiantly in ght, and had shewn so great a
regard to the common interest of them all, they
had not only forgotten all that was past, but
thought he ought as much to be trusted with
arms and necessaries as any of them, which
they testied by making him next in command
to the governor: and they most heartily em-
braced the occasion of giving me this solemn
assurance, that they would never separate their
interest again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship we
appointed all of us to dine together the next
day ; upon this I caused the ship’s cook and his
mate to come on shore for that purpose, to as-
sist in dressing our dinner, We brought from
the ship six pieces of beef, and four of pork, to-
gether with our punch-bowl, and materials to
ll it; and in particular I gave them ten bottles
of French claret, and ten of English beer,
- s 3 .
which was very acceptable to them. The Spa-
niards added to our feast ve whole kids, which
being roasted, three of them were sent as fresh
meat to the sailors on board, and the other two
we eat ourselves. After our merry and innocent
feast was over, I began to distribute my cargo
among them, First, I gave them sufficient to
make every one of them four shirts, and at the
Spaniard’s request made them up six. The thin
English stuffs I allotted to make every one a
light coat like a frock, agreeable to the climate,
and left them such a quantity as to make more
upon their decay; as also pumps, shoes, hats,
and stockings. It is not to be expressed the
pleasing satisfaction which sat upon the coun-
tenances of these poor men, when they per-
ceived what care I took of them, as if I had
been a common father to them all; and they all
engaged never to leave the island, till I gave my
consent for their departure. I then presented to
them the people I brought, viz. the tailor, smith,
d the two carpenters; hut my Jack-of-alL
an ~
trades was the most acce table presentl could
make them. My tailor fell)iinmcdiately to work
and made every one of them a shirt; after
l' h he learned the women how to sew and
w iic ,
stitch thereby to become more helpful to their
husbahds. Neither were the carpenters less use-
fl takin in pieces their clumsy things; in-
u , g
stead of which they made convenient latl gang-
some tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboar s, oc -
ers, and shelves. But when I carried them to
see Will Atkins’s basket house, tliey owner: tlgey
. . e_
never saw such a piece of natura iiigenui y
fore; “I am sure,” said one of the carpenters»
" the man that built this has no need of us;
you need, sir, do nothing but give him tools.”
I divided the tools among them: to every man
I gave a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake,
and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow,
a hroad»axe, and a saw, with a store for a gene-
ral supply, should any be broken or worn out.
I left them also nails, staples, hinges, hammers,
chissels, knives, scissars, and all sorts of tools
and iron work: and for the use of the smith,
gave them three tons of unwrought iron, fora
supply: and as to arms and ammunition, I
stored them even to profusion; or at least to
equip a suflicicnt little army against all opposers
whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfor-
tunately starved to death) together with the
maid, a pious and well educated young woman,
seeing things so well ordered on shore, both
desired of me, that I would leave them there,
and enter them among my subjects. This I
readily agreed to, ordering them a plat of
ground, on which were three little houses
erected, environed with basket-work, palisadoed
like Atkins’s, and adjoining to his plantation.
So contrived were their tents, that each of them
had a room apart to lodge in, while their middle
tent was not only their store-house, but their
place for eating and drinking.
But now I think it high time to speak of the
young French priest, whose judicious and pious
discourses, merit an extraordinary observation;
he was a person of a most courteous disposition,
extensive charity and exalted piety. His argu-
ments were always agreeable to reason, and his
conversation the most acceptable that I had ever
yet heard in my life.
“ Sir,” said he to me one day, “ since, under
God, you have not only saved my life; but by
permitting me to go this voyage, have granted
me the happiness of free conversation, I think
it my duty, to save what souls I can, by bring-
ing them to the knowledge of some catholic
doctrine, necessary to salvation: and since these
people are under your immediate government,
I shall offer no farther points in religion, than
what merit your approbation.”
So sensibly was I touched with this discourse,
and so satised with that ardent piety that in-
amed his soul, that I thanked him for expres-
sing so great a concern for us, and desired liiin
to explain himself more fully. “ Why thll,
sir,” said he, “in the rst place, you haw?
four Englishmen, who have taken savage women
to their wives, none of them are legally married.
as the law of God and mdanl requires they, I sayf
sir, are no less than a u terers, ie essence o
matrimony consists not only in a _mutual con-
sent, but in the obligation, which compels
them to own and acknowledge one another, to
abstain from other persons, and to the same and
like conditions. Now, sir, the tlllllggl Would
P]'()p()$B is, that we should marry them, by a
written contract, signed by both man and W0-
man, and by all the witnesses present, which all
the European laws decree to be of suicient ef-
ficacy.” I could not but acknowledge all thug
he said to be very Just fldklndi and P1'°'Y"s°
that I would discourse with the men about it-
~ The next complaint he had to make to me
was this, that though these English subjects of
inine have lived with these‘ women sleven yfeaps,
'et they had never tau "lit t iein any t iiiig 0 t ie
ilhristian religion, mi) the knowledge of "God,
much less in what manner he ought to he served.
“ And is not this an unaccountable neglect?”
said he warinly. “But as it is not too late, if
you please to give me leave to instruct them, I
doubt not but I shall supply HHS. great defect,
by bringing them into the great circle of Chris-
tianity, even xshile you continue in the island.”
I could hold no longer, but told him, with a
thousand thanks, I would grant whatever lie
requested, and desired him to proceed in the
third article, which he did in the following
manner:
u“ Sir,” said he, “it should be a maxim among
a Christians, that Christian know ed e on ht
to be propagated by all possible meang, andgon
all occasions. Now, sir, as here is an opportu-
nity to convert seven-and-thirty-poor savages,
I wonder how you can pass by such an occasion
of doing good, which is really worth the ex-
pence of a man's whole life.”
I must confess I was so confounded at this
discourse, that I could not tell how to answer
him. “,Sii',” said I, “it is very true: but as
you are an ecclesiastic, why don’t you rather of-
fer to undertake it yourself, than press me to
itimbupon tips he tugned about, making a very
ow ow, “ most umbly thank God and you,
sir (said he) for so blessed a call; and most wil-
lingly undertake so glorious an oice.”
While he was thus speaking, I could discover
a rapture in his face, by his color going and
coming: at the same time his eyes sparkled like
re, and all the signs of the most zealous tran-
sports. And when I asked whether he was in
earnest, “ Sir,” said he, “ it was to preach to
the Indians I consented to come along with you;
these indels, even in this little island, are in-
nitely of more worth than my poor life: if so
that I should prove the happy instrument of
saving these poor creatures’ souls, I care not if
I never see my native country again.”
When we came to the Englishmen, after I
had told them what necessary things I had done
for them, I talked to them of the scandalous
life they led, and told them what notice the
clergyman had taken of it. Hereupon Will At-
kins, who spoke for the rest, told me, that they
believed their wives to be the most innocent and
virtuous creatures in the world; that they would
never forsake them while they had breath: and
that, if there was a clergyman in the ship, they
would be married to them with all their hearts.
I told you before, said I, that I have a minister
with me, who shall marry you to niorrow morn-
ing, so l would have you consult to night with
the rest about it.
Nothing now remained, but that the women
should he made sensible of the meaning of the
thing: with which being well satised, they
with their husbands attended at my apartment
the next morning; there was my priest, habited
in a black vest, something like a cassock, _with
a sash round it, much resembling a minister.
But the seriousness of his behaviour, and the.
scruples he made of marrying the women, till
he had rst baptized them, gave them an ex-
ceeding reverence for his person. Thus ended a
ceremony to me the most pleasant and agreeable
I ever witnessed in my life.
The affairs of the island being settled, I was
preparing to go on board, when the young man
(whose mother was starved) came tome, saying,
that as he understood I had aclergyman with
me, who had married the Englishmen with sa-
vages, he had a match to make between two
Christians, which he desired might be nished
before I departed,---the marriage he proposed,
was between my J ack-of-all-trades and the maid
Susan.
I was indeed agreeable to this match, she be-
ing an excellent, dextrous, and sensible house-
wife, t to be governess of the whole island; so
we married them the same day; and asI was her
fathdr and gave her away, so I gave her a hand-
some portion, appointing her and her husband
a convenient large spot~of ground for their plan.-
tation. The sharing out of the land I left to Will
Atkins, who really divided it very justly, to every
person’s satisfaction: As to their laws and go-
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another;
and as to the Indians who lived in a nook by
themselves, I allotted three or four of them
plantations, and the rest willingly chose to be-
come servants to the other families, bv which
means they were employed in useful labour, and
fared much better than they did before.
But to return to the disposition of things
among my people, I did not take any notice to
them of the s oop that I had framed, neither
would I leave them the two pieces of brass can-
"O", 01' ilwvlwo quarter-deck guns that I had
on board, lest upon any disgust, they should
have separated, or turned pirates, but leaving
them in a ourishing condition, with a promise
to send them further relief, I went on board the
ship again, the rst of May, I695, and next
morning giving them a salute of ve guns at
parting, we set sail for the Brazils. The third
day, towards evening there happening a calm,
and the current being very strong, we were drove
to the N. N. E. towards the lands. Some hours
after, we perceived the sea covered as it were
with something very black; upon which our
chief mate ascending the shrouds a little way,
and taking a view with the perspective glass, he
cries out, “ An army! an army !” “ You fool.”
said I, “ what do you mean?” “ Nay, sir,” said
he “ don’t be angry, I assure you, it is not ‘only
an army, but a fleet too, for I believe there are
athousand canoes paddling along, and making
with great haste towards ‘us.”
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this
relation; and my nephew, the captain, could
not tell what to think of it, but thought we
should all be devoured; l10W€V€T'> I enbvllrged
him not to be afraid, but bring the ship to an
anchor, as soon as we were certain t at we
must engage them. _
As they approached us, they seemed to be Ill
the greatest amazement, not knowing what_to
make of us. They rowed round the ship, which
occasioned us to beekondto yhedsgvaigef tr; SEEP
back, which they aceor ingy 1 5 I1’ a 9"
retreat they let y abjiult fty ayrows ampng ill:
and ver much woun e one 0 0111‘ I119 \-
half an iiour after they came S0 near 11511" " 0‘
us, that we had a perfect sight of them; this
made me order all our men to get their guns
ready. In the mean timel ordered Friday to
ask them in his language what they meant. No
sooner did he do so, but the savages let y a
volley of arrows, unfortunately for poor Friday,
who fell under the cloud of three hundred arrows,
no less than seven piercing through his body.
-Sn enraged was I at the death of poor Friday,
that the guns, which before were charged only
with powder, I ordered to be loaded with small
shot; nor did the guimers fail in their aim, but
at this broadside split and overset thirteen or
fourteen of their canoes, which killed numbers
of them, and set the rest a swimming: the
others, frightened out of their wits, little re-
garding their fellows drowning, scoured away
as fast as they could.
Being now under sail, we took our last fare-
well of poor honest Friday, and interred him
with all possible decency and solemnity, putting
him in a coffin, and committing liiin to the deep,
at the same time causing eleven guns to be fired
over him. Thus ended the life of one of the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and affectionate
servants, that ever any man was blessed with in
the world.
Having now a fair wind for Brazil, in about
twelve days time we made land in the latitude of
ve degrees south of the line.
Here Idelivered my partner’s goods to the va-
lue of £100, sterling, and obliged him to t up
the sloop Ibought for the use of my island, in
order to send them refreshments; and so active
was he in this matter, that he had the vessel
T
nished in a few days, to the master of which I
gave particular instructions to nd the place.
By this sloop, among other things, Isent my
subjects three milch cows and ve calves, about
22 hogs, three sows big with pig, two mares
and a stone-horse. Ialso engaged ve Portu-
gal women to gofor the sake of the Spaniards,
which, were sufficient, since the rest had wives
,of their own, though in another country: all
which cargo arrived safe, no doubt to their ex-
ceeding comfort, who with this addition, were
about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
From the Brazils we made directly over the
Atlantic Ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, hav-
ing a tolerable good voyage, steering for the
most part S. E. At the Cape we only took in
fresh water, and then sailed for the coast of Go-
roinandel.
In our passage, we touched at the Island of
Madagascar, where, though the inhabitants are
naturally erce and treacherous, and go con-
stantly armed with bows and iances, yet for
some time they treated us civilly enough; and,
in exchange for knives, scissars, and. other
tries, they hroiight us eleven good fat bollocks,
which we took partly for present victuals, and
the remainder to salt for the sliip’s use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the
world where I came to, that I went on shore as
often as I could. One evening when on shore,
we observed numbers of the people stand gazing
at us at a distance. We thought ourselves in no
danger, as they had hitherto used us kindly.
However we cut three boughs out of a_trB§,
sticking them at a distance from us, which it
a
seems in that country, is not only a token of
truce and amity, but when poles or boughs are
set up on the other side, it is a sign the truce is
accepted. In these treaties, however, there is
one principal thing to be regarded, that neither
arty come beyond one another’s three poles or
lioughs; so that the middle space is not only
secure, but is also allowed as a market for traic
and commerce. When the truce is thus ac--e
cepted, they stick up their javelins and lances at
the rst poles, and come on unarmed: but if
any violence is offered, away they run to their
poles, take up their weapons, and then the truce
is at an end. This evening it happened that a
greater number of people than usual, both men
and women, trading among us for such toys as
we had, with_such great civility, that we made
us a little tent, of large boughs of trees, some
of the men resolving to lie on shore all night;
but for my part I and some others took our
lodgings in the boat, with some bougbs of
trees spread over it, having a sail spread at
the bottom to lie upon. About two o’clock
in the morning we were awakened by the ring
of muskets, and our men crying out for help,
or else they would all be murdered. Scarce had
we time to get the boat ashore, when our men
came plunging themselves into the water, with
about four hundred of the islanders at their
heels. We took up seven of the men, three of
them~very_ much wounded, and one left behind
klllefli while the enemy poured their arrows so
thick among us, that we returned them a volley
which wounded several of them as we could hear
by their cries. In this condition we lay till
a
break of day, when my nephew weighed anchor,
and stood as near the shore as possible, and
then sent another boat with ten hands in her to
assist us; but we called to them not to come
near, informing them of our unhappy condition.
However they ventured; when one of the men
taking the end of a tow-line in one hand, and
keeping our boat between him and our adversa-
ries, swam to us, and slipping our cables, they
towed us out of the reach of their arrows, and
quickly after a broad-side was given them from
the ship, which made a most dreadful liavock
among them. When we got on board, we exa-
mined into the occasion of this fray. The men
who ed informed us, that an old woman, who
sold milk within the poles, had brought a young
woman with her, who carried roots and herbs,
the sight of whom so much tempted our men.
that they offered rudeness to the maid, at which
the old women set up a great cry: nor would the
sailors part with their prize, but carried I191‘
among the trees, while the old woman went,
and brought a whole army down upon them.
At the beginning of the attack, one of our men
was killed with a lance, and the fellow who began
the mischief, paid dear enough for his mistress,
though as yet we did notknow what had become
of him; the rest luckily escaped. The third
night after the action, being curious to under-
stand liow affairs stood, Itook the supercargo
and twenty stout fellows with me, will landd
about two hours before midnight at the Same
place where those Indians stood the night before,
and there we divided our men into two l)0(llBS.o
the boatswain commanding 0118, and I an0ll1@_h
if
We perceived here no fewer than two-and-thirty
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not
quite dead. Satised with this discovery, _I was
for going on board again, but the boatswain and
the rest told me, they would make a visit to the
Indian town. But I utterly refused to go, so
they all left me but one, and the supercargo; We
three returned to the boat, where a boy was left,
resolving to stay till they returned. They came
to a few Indian houses at rst, which not being
the houses they expected, they went farther,
and nding a cow tied to a tree, they untied her;
she led them directly to the town, which con-
sisted of above two hundred houses. At their
arrival, all being in profound sleep, the sailors
agreed to divide themselves into three bodies,
and set three parts of the town on re at once,
to kill those that were escaping, and plunder
the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved, they went to work; but the rst party
had not gone far before they found Tom Jeffery;
hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat
almost cut from ear to ear. In a house that was
hard by the tree, they found sixteen or seven-
teen Indians, who had been concerned in the
fray; this house they set on re rst, and in a
few minutes after, ve or six places more [in the
town appeared in ames. The conagration
spread like wild-re, their houses being all of
wood, and covered with ags or rushes. The
poor ai-ighted inhabitants endeavoured to run
out to save their lives, but they‘ were driven
back into the ames by the sailors, and killed
without mercy. At the rst house ab
_ _ ove-men'-
tinned, after the boatswain had slain two with
"r 3 _
his pole-axe, he threw a hand grenade into the
house, which bursting, made a terrible havock,
killing and wounding most of them; and their
king and most of his train, who were in that
house, fell victims to their fury, every creature of
them being either smothered or burnt. All this
while they never red a gun, lest the people
should awaken faster than they could overpower
them. ‘But the re awakened them fast enough,
which obliged our fellows to keep together in
bodies. By this time the whole town was in a
ame, yet the fury rather increased. The terri-
hle light of this conagration made me very un-
easy, and roused my nephew the captain, and
the rest of his men, who knew nothing of the
matter. When he perceived the dreadful smoke,
and heard the guns go off, he readily concluded
his men were in danger; he therefore takes ano-
ther boat, and comes ashore himself, with thir-
teen men well armed. He was greatly surprised
to see me and only two, men in the boat, but
more so when I told him the story; but though
I urged with him, as I did with the men, about
the dangers of the voyage, the interests of the
merchants and owners, and the safety of the
ship, yet my nephew, like the rest, declared,
that he would rather lose the ship, his voyage,
his life and all, than his men should be lost for
want of help; and so away he went. For my
part, seeing him resolved to go, I had not
power to stay behind. He ordered the pinnace
back again for twelve men more, and then we
marched directly as the ame guided us.
The rst object, I think, we met with, W88
the ruins of one of their liabitations,.bef0r8
which lay four men and three women killed, and
two more burnt to death among the re, which
was now decaying. We had not gone much far-
ther, when we beheld three naked women, fol-
lowed by sixteen or seventeen men, ying with
the greatest swiftness from our men, who shot
one of them in our sight. ..
However, being resolved to put an end to this
barbarity, I ordered the men to follow me. We
had not gone fteen yards before we came up
with the hoatswain, with four of our men at
his heels, all of them covered with blood and.
dust, and in search of more people to satiate
their vengeance. As soon as we saw them wee
called out and made them understand who we
were; upon which, setting up an halloo of
triumph, in token that more help was come,
“ Noble captain,” said he to my nephew, “ I’m
glad you’re come, pray come hither and behold
poor Tom Jeffery; and with that he showed us.
the poor fellow with his throat cut, hanging-,_
upon the tree.
This sight made my nephew and the rest as.
bad as they; nay, my nephew declared, that
not a soul of them ought to live. Upon. this,
the boatswain and eight more directly turned
about, and went to nish the intended tragedy;
which being out of my power to prevent, I
returned back from the dismal sight, and the
piteous cries of those unfortunate creatures,
who ‘where made victims to their fury. When I
had got to the boat, the re was almost extin-
guished, and the noise abated; but I had scarce
been half an hour on board the ship, when I
heard another volley given by our sailors,‘ and an
great smoke, which, as I afterwards found, was
our men falling upon those houses and persons
that stood between them and the sea; but here
they spared the wives and children, and killed
only the men, to the number of about sixteen
or seventeen. By the time they got to the
shore, the piiinace and the ship’s boat were
ready to receive them, and they all got safe on
board, not a man of them having received the
least hurt, except two, one of them having
sprained his foot, and the other burnt his hand
a little; for they met with no resistance, the
poor Indians being unprepared, amazed, and
confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them,
but particularly with the captain, who instead
of cooling the rage of the men, had? prompted
them on to further mischief; nor could he make
me any other excuse, but that as he was a_ man,
he could not master his passions at the sight of
one of his men so cruelly murdered. As for the
rest, knowing they were not under my command
they took no notice of my anger, but rather
boasted of their revenge. According to all their
accounts, they killed or destroyed about I50 men
women, and children, besides burning the town
to ashes. They took their companion Tom Jef-
fery from the tree, covered him with some of the
ruins, and so left him. But however this action
of our men might seem to them j_ustiable, yet
I always openly condemned it with the appel-
lation of the Massacre of Madagascar.
We were now in the road of Bengal, when,
going ashore with the supercargo one day, In
the evening, as'I was preparing to go on board,
one of the men ca-me to me, and told me, I
need not trouble myself to come to the boat, for
that the cockswain and others had ordered him
not to carry me on board any more. This inso-
lent message much surprised me; yet l gave
him no answer to it, but went directly and ac-
(]ll€tgllI€:.]l thedsupercargo, entreating him t.o go
on oar , an , by ac uaintin the ca tain with
it, preventBa mutiiiyqwhichgi perceiifed would
iappen. ut before I had s oken this, the
matter was effected on board; foii no sooner was
he gone off in the boat, but the boatswain, gun-
ner, and all the inferior officers, came to the
quarter-deck, desiring to speak with the captain:
and_ there the boatswain made a long liarangue
:l€§.£ti1?t[?1Bi as before-mentioned, exclaiming
_ iai not gone on shore peaceably for my
own diversion, they, by violence, would have
compelled inc, for their satisfaction; that as
they had shipped with the captain, so they
would faithfully serve him; but if I did not quit
§ll.°.i‘il"lL’..‘;’ ti: T? *1’ turnin" his face tfbiigf "lime la e yi ' lereupon,
_,. 1 ., y way of signal, they
out, “ ONE and ALL! ONE and
Y'0ll may be sure, that though my nephew
was a nian of great courage, he could not but
be surprised at their sudden and unexpected be-
lia_viour; ‘but there was no remedy but com-
pliance: in short, all my necessaries were sent
me, and so this matter was over in a few hours.
f I think I was now near athousand leagues
arther offEngland by sea, than at my time
kingdom. BX¢ept this difference, that I ‘might,
K
travel by land over the Great Mogul’s country
to Surat, from thence to Bassora, by sea up the
Persian Gulf, then take the way of the caravans
over the Arabian desert to Aleppo and Scande-
roon, there taking shipping to Italy, and so
travel by land into France, and from thence
across the sea to England.
My nephew left me two persons to attend me;
one of them was his servant, and the other clerk
to the purser, who engaged to be mine. I took
lodgings in an English woman’s house, where
several French, one English, and two Italian
merchants resided. The handsome entertain-
ment I met with here, occasioned me to stay
nine months, considering what course I should
take, Some English goods I had with me of
great value, besides a thousand pieces of eight,
and a letter for more, if there was such neces-
sity. The goods I soon disposed of to advan-
tage, and bought here several good diamonds,
which I could easily carry about with me. One
morning the English merchant came to me, as
being very intimate together, “ Countryman,”
said he, “ I have a project tocommunicate to
you: in a few days, a vessel leaves this place
for Pekin in China, from whence shipping S1111
belonging to every power in Europe. If you
do not dislike my company, we will both em-
bark to morrow; and see if we cannot get 8-
conveyance froin thence to our own country.
This proposal soon got my consent, being of
a very rambling disposition; and the more S0,
because I looked upon my countryman to_ be 8-
man of great good sense, honest disposition,
and of an intelligent turn. Accordingly We
NJ
i-i
Ur
bargained for our passage, and set out in less
than a week. We had but an indifferent voyage;
but at length arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two servants, and an old Por-
tuguese pilot, whose charges we bore, and who
served us as an interpreter by the way. We
had scarce been a week at Pekin, but he comes
laughing to us, “Ah! Seignior Inglise,” said
he, “me something tell you make your heart
glad, but make me sorry; for you bring me
here, and now you leave me go back alone; and
which way shall I make my port after, without
de ship, without money? He then informed
me, that there was a great caravan of Muscovite
and Polish merchants in the city, who were pre-
paring to set out for Muscovy by land within six
weeks; and, that he was certain we would take
this opportunity, and consequently that he must
go home by himself. Indeed this news innitely
surprised and pleased me.--“ Are you certain of
this P” said I, “ Yes, sir,” says he, “ me sure
it’s true.”--“ Well, Seignior,” said I, “ don’t
be discontented about your returning alone;
and if, by this means, I can nd a passage to
England, it will he your own fault if you.re-
turn at all.” And so consulting with my part-
ner what was best to be done; he referred it to
me to do as I pleased. Thus resolved, we agreed
that if our pilot would go with us, we would bear
his charges either to Moscow or England; and
to give him in a present the sum of one hundred
and seventy pounds sterling. Hereupon we
called him in, and told him what we would do
for him; and as for his charges, we would set
him safe onshore, God willing, either in'Mus-
covy or England, as he pleased, at our owri
charge. At this proposal he was like a man
transported, telling us, he would go with us
all the world over; and we made preparations
for our journey; but it was several months be-
fore all the merchaiits were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot
went express to the port where we rst put in,
to dispose of what goods had been left there,
while I accompanied a Chinese merchant who
was going to Nanquin, and_there bought twenty-
nine pieces of damask, with about three hun-
dred iiiore of other ne silks; and by the time
my partner returned to Pekin, I had them all
carried thither; our cargo in silks amounted to
£4,600 sterling, which, together with tea, ne
calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves, loaded eighteen
camels for our share, besides what we rode upon,
with two or three spare horses, and two more
loaded with provisions; the company now was
very ‘great, making about four hundred horse,
and one hundred and twenty men, well armed
and provided. \Ve were of several nations,
among whom were ve Scotchnnercliants re-
siding in Moscow, and well experienced in trade.
We set out from Pekiii the beginning of Fe-
bruary, old style; aiid in two days more, we
passed through the gate of the great China wall,
which was erected as a fortication against the
Tartars, being one hundred English miles long.
We then entered a country not nearly so po-
pulous, chiey under the_ power of plundering
Tartars, _several companies of whom we per-
ceived riding on poor starved horses, .C0.tIIt.3fDptl-A
ble as themselves, without order 0If.(ltSCIPllIlB.--—
We travelled-a month more through the Em-
}.-eror of China’s dominions; and at length came
to one of their towns about a day and a half’s
journey from the city of Naum.
When we came to the city of Naum, ‘we
rested there one day, and then proceeded on
our travels, passing several great rivers .and de-
serts; and on the 13th of April we came. to the
frontiers of Muscovy, the rst town of which
was called Argun. I . '
This happy occasion, as I thought, of .com-
ing into a Christian country, made me congra-
tulate the Scotch merchant upon it. He smiled
at that," telling me not to rejoice too- soon;
“ for,” said he, " except the Russian soldiers in
garrison, and a few inhabitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country, for above
a thousand miles, is inhabited by the most.ig-
norant and barbarous Pagans.” 1
We advanced from the river Arguna by mode-
rate journeys, and found convenient garrisons
on the road lled with Christian soldiers, for
the security of commerce, and for the conve-
nient lodgings of travellers: but the inhabitants
of the country were mere Pagans, worshi ping
the sun, moon, and stars. We particularly ob-
served this idolatry near the river Arguna, at a
city ‘inhabited by Tarters and Russians, called
Nerisinkey. Being curious to see their way of
living while the caravan continued to rest; them-
selves in that city, Iwent toone of their vil-
lages; wherethere was to be one of thciri solemn
sacrices. There I beheld,~.upon ;tl18 stump~of
an‘ old _tree, an idol of wood, more ugly than
the devil himself: its head resemblingpno living
v
I
i
creature; its ears were as big and as high as
goat’s horns; a crooked nose, four-cornered-
mouth, and horrible teeth; it was clothed in
sheep-skins, had a great Tartar hoiinet, with
two horns growing through ‘it, and was eight
feet "high, without feet, legs, ‘or proportion.
Before this idol there lay sixteen or seventeen
people, who brought their offerings, and were
making “-their .prayers., while at a distance stood
three men, and one bullock, as victims to this
ugly monster.
‘Such stupendous sacrilege as this in -robbing
the true God of -his honor, ‘lled me with the
greatest astonishment and "reection: which
soonturningitozragerand -fury, Irode up to the
image, and -out in pieces the bonnet that was
upon his head with my sword, so that it hung
down by one of the horns, “while one of my men
that was with me pulled zat it by his sheep-skin
garment. Immediately an hideous howling and
-outcry ran through -the village, and twoor three
‘hundred people coming about our ears, we were
obliged to y for it. ~
‘But Ihad _not done with the monster; for the
raravan being to rest three nights in the town,
‘I told the Scotch merchant what I had seen, and
‘that I was resolved to take four or ve men well
iarmed with "me, in order to destroy the idol, and
show the peorple how little reason they had to
trust in ;a go who could not save himself. At
rst he laughed at me, representing the danger
"of pit; and when zit was destroyed, what timerhad
we ‘to preach ito them better things, whose zeal
and ignorance was in the greatest degree,‘ and
-‘both unparallelled; that if I should "be talcen
by them, I should be served as a. poor Russian
who condemiied their worship; that is, to be
stripped naked, ‘and tied to the top of the idol,
there shot at with arrows till my body was full
of them, and then burnt as a sacrice to the
monster; “ But, sir,” said he, “ since your
zeal carries you so far, rather than you should
be alone, I will bring a stout fellow equal to
yourself, if you will, to assist you in this de-
sign:” and accordingly he brought one captain
Richardson, who, hearing the story, readily
consented; but my partner declined it, being
altogether out of his way; and so we three, and
my servant, resolved to execute this exploit
about midnight; but upon second thoughts we
deferred it to the next night, by reason that
the caravan being to go from hence the next
morning, we should be out of the gov-ernor’s
power. The better to effectuate my design, I
procured a Tartar’s sheep-skin robe, a bonnet,
with bow and arrows, and every one. of us got
the like habits. The rst night we spent in
mixing combustible matter with aqua-vitae,
gunpowder, &c. having a good quantity of tar
in a pot; next. night we came up. to. the idol
about eleven o’cloi:li,, the moon being; up. We
found none guarding it; but we perceived a light
in the house, where we had seen the priests be-
fore. One of our men was for ring the hut,
another for killing the people, and a, third for
making them prisoners, while the idol was de-
stroyed. We agreed to the latter; so knoekiiig
at the door, we seized the rst that opened it,
and Stepping his mouth and tying his feet, we
left him.‘ We served the other two in the like
manner; and then the Scotch merchant set re
to the composition, which frightened them so
much that we brought them all away prisoners
to their wooden god. There we fell to work
with him, daubing him all over with tar mixed
with tallow' and brimstone, stopping his eyes,
ears, and mouth full of gunpowder, with a
great piece of wild-re in his bonnet, and envi-
roned it with dry forage. All this being done,
we unloosed and ungagged the prisoners, and
set the idol on re, which the gunpowder blow-
ing up, the shape of it was deformed, rent, and
split, which the forage utterly consumed; for
we stayed to see its destruction, lest the ignorant
idolatrous people should have thrown themselves
into the ames. And thus we came away undis-
covered, in the morning appearing as busy
among our fellow travellers, as nobody could
have suspected any other but that we had been
in our beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but
a small distance from the city, when there came
‘a multitude’ of people of the country to the
gates of thercity, demanding satisfaction of the
Russian governor for insulting their priests, and
burning their great Cham Chi-Thaungu,_ who
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would violate
this image but some Christian miscreants; and
being no less than thirty thousand strong, they
announced war against him and all his Chris-
tians. ‘ .
The governor assured them that he was ig-
norant of the matter, and that none of his gar-
rison hada been abroad; that indeed there was a
‘caravan thatwent away that morning, and that
ID
ID
ml
he would send after them to. inquire into it_; and
whoever was the offender, should berdehvered.
into their hands. This satised them for the
present, but the governor sent to inform US,»
that if any of us had done it, we should make
all the haste away possible, while he keptthem
in play as long as he could. Upon ‘U118 We
marched two days and two nights, stopping but
very little, till at last we arrived at a village
called Plothus, and hastened to Jarawena, ano-
ther of the Czar’s »colonies. On the third day,
having entered the desert, and passed the lake
called Shaks Oser, we beheld anumerous body of
horse on the other side of it to the north, who
supposed we had passed on that side the lake;
but either having found the mistake, or being
certainly informed of the way we took, they
came upon us towards the dusk of the evening,
just as we had pitched our camp between two lit-
tle, but very thick woods, with a little river run-
ning before our front, and some felled trees with
which we covered our rear; a precaution we
always took, and which we had just nished
when the enemy came up.--They did not fall
on us immediately, but sent three messengers,
demanding the men who had insulted their
priests, and burnt their god Oham Chi-Thaungu,
that they might be burnt with re :’ that if this
was complied with,they would peaceably depart;
but if not, they would destroy one and all of
us. Our men~ stared at one another on receipt
of this message, but nobody was the word, as
indeed nobody‘ knew it, but he who did it.
Upon which the leader of the caravan returned
for an answer, “ That they were peaceable mer-
U3
I
1
chants, who meddled with none of their priests
and gods; and therefore desired them not to
disturb us, and put us under the necessity of
defending ourselves.” But so far was this from
satisfying them, that the next morning coming
to our right they let y a volley of arrows
among us, which happily did not hurt any,'be-
cause we sheltered ourselves, behind our bag-
gage. We expected however to come to closer
engagement, but were happily saved by a cun-
ning fellow, a Cossack, who obtaining leave of
the leader to go out, mounts his horse, rides
directly from our rear, and.taking a circuit,
comes up to the Tartars, as though he had been
sent express, and tells them a formal story, that
the wretches who had burnt the Cham Chi-
Thaungu, were gone to Shiheilka, with areso-
lution to burn the god Shal-Isar, belonging to
the Tongueses. Upon which, believing -this
cunning Tartar, who was servant to our Mus-
covites, away they drove to Shiheilka, and in
less than three minutes were out of sight, nor
did we ever hear of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we
rested ve days, and then entered into a fright-
ful desert, which held us twenty-three days’
march, infested with several small companies of
robbers, or Mogul Tartars, who never had the
courage to attack us. After we had passed over
this desert, we found several garrisons to defend
the caravans from the violence of the Tartars;
in particular the governor of Adinskoysfoffered
us-aguard of fty men to the nextstation, if
we apprehended any danger. The people here
retained the same paganism and barbarity, only
l
noemsou c_1wsor~:. ‘Z23
they were not so dangerous, being conquered by
the Muscovites. .The clothing both of _\nen
and women, is of the skins of beasts, living
under the ground in vaults and caves, which
have a communication with one another. They
have idolsalmost in every family; besides, they
adore the sun and stars, water and snow; and
the least uncommon thing that happens in the
elements alarms them as much as thunder and
lightning does the unbelieving Jews.
Nothing remarkable occurred in our march
through this country. When we had gone
through the desert, after two days farther travel,
we came to Jenezoy, a Muscovite city, on the
great river so called, which we were told parted
Europe from Asia. From this city to the river
Oby, we travelled over a pleasant, fruitful, but
very uncultivated country, for want of good
management and people, and those few. are
mostly Pagans. This is the place where the
Muscovite criminals are banished to, if they
are not put to death. The next city we came
to, was the capital city of Siberia, called 'l'obol-
ski, when having been almost seven months on
our journey, and winter drawing on apace, my
partner and I consulted about our articular
affairs, in what manner we should dispose of
ourselves. We had been told of sledges and
rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the winter
season, the snow being frozen sohard, that the
sledges can run upon the surface without any
danger of going down. As I was rbound to
England, .I.now_.behoved. either to go with the
caravan to J ereslaw, from thence west to Narva,
and the gulf of Finland,-and so by landor sea
to Denmark; or else I must leave the caravan
at a little town on ..the Dwina, and so to Arch-
angel, wliere I was certain of shipping either to
England, Holland, or Hamburgh.
One night I happened to get into the com-
pany of an illustrious but banished Prince, whose
company and virtues made me propose to him a
method how he might obtain his liberty.--“ My
dear friend,” said he, “asl am here happily
free from my miserable greatness, with all its
attendants of pride, ambition, avarice, and lux-
ury, if Ishould escape from this place, those
pernicious seeds may again revive, to my last-
ing disquietude; therefore let me remain in a
blessed connement, for I am but esh, a mere
man, with passions and affections as such; O
be not myifrieiid and teinpter too 3” Struck dumb
with surprise, I stood silent awhile; nor was he
less in disorder, by which perceiving he wanted
to give vent to his mind, I desired him to con-
sider of it, and so withdrew. But about two
hours after he came to my apartment; “Dear
friend,” said he, “ though I cannot consent to
accompany you, I shall have this satisfaction in
parting, that you leave me an honest man still:
but as a testimony of my affection to you, be
pleased to accept this present of sables.”
In return for this compliment, I sent my ser-
vant next inorning to his lordship with a small
present of tea, two pieces of China damask, and
four little wedges of gold; but he only accepted
the tea, one piece of damask, and one piece of
gold, for the curiosity of the Japan stamp that
was upon it. Not long; after he sent for me,
and told me_ what he. ad refused.hi'_mself,~ he
noumsorz cnvsos. 226
or
hoped, upon his account, I would grant to ano-
ther, whom he should name: in short it was his
only son, who was about two hundred miles
distant from him, on the other side of the city,
whom he said he would send for, if I gave my
consent. This I soon complied with; upon
which he sent his servant next day for his son,
who returned in twenty da.y’s time, bringing
seven horses loaded with valuable furs. At
night the young lord was conducted incognito
into our apartment, where his father presented
him to me. We then concerted the best way
for travelling, and after having bought a consi-
derable quantity of sables, black fox skins, ne
ermines, &c. (which I sold at Archangel at a
good price). we set out from this city the be-
ginning of June, making a small caravan, being
about thirty-two horses and camels, of which I
represented the head. My young lord had with
him a very faithful Siberian servant, well ac»
quainted with the roads. We shunned the prin-
cipal towns and cities, as Tumen, Soli, Ka-
moskoi, and several others, byreason of their
strictness in examining travellers, lest any one
of the banished persons of distinction should
escape. Having passed the river Kama, we
came to a city on the European side, called
S.oloy Kamoskoi, where we found the people
mostly Pagans as before. We then passed a
desert of about two hundred miles over; but in
.other places it is near seven hundred. In pass-
mg. this wild place, we were beset by a troop
of .men on horseback, and about ve-and-forty
men armed with bows and arrows. At rst they
looked earnestly on us, and then placed them-
selves in our way. We were but sixteen men,
so we drew up a little line before our camels.
My young lord sent out his Siberian servant, to
know wh_o they were; but, when he approached
them, he neither knew a word they said, nor
would they admit him to come near them at his
peril, but prepared to shoot him. At his re-
turn, he told us he believed them to be Kalmuc
Tartars; and that there were more upon the
desert. This was but a small comfort to us;
yet seeing a little grove, about a quarter of a
mile distant, we moved to it, by the old Por-
tuguese pilot’s advice, without meeting with
opposition. Here we found a marshy piece of
ground, and a spring of water running into~a
little brook on one side, which joined another
like it a little farther off, and these two formed
the head of the river called Writska. As soon
as we arrived, we went to work, cutting great
arms off the trees, and laying them hanging not
quite off from one tree to another. In this si-
tuation we waited the motion of the enemy,
without perceiving any advancement they made
towards us. About two hours before night, be-
ing joined by some others, in all about four-
score horses, among whom we fanciediwere
some women, they came upon us with great
fury. We fired without ball, calling to them in
the Russian tongue, to know their business;
but they either not knowing, or seeming not to
understand us, came directly to the wood-side,
not considering that we we so fortied, as that
they could not break in. Our old pilot, the
Portuguese, proved both our captain and en-
gineer, and desired us not to re till they came
w,
D 0
within pistol shot; and when he gave the word
of mainland, then to take the surest aim; but
he did not bid us give re, till they were within
two pikes length of us, and then we killed four-
teen of them, wounded several, as also their
horses, having every one of us loaded our pieces
with two or three bullets at least. So much were
they surprised at our undauntedness, that they
retired about a hundred roods from us. -I-n the
mean while we loaded our pieces again, and
sallying out, secured four or ve of their horses,
whose riders we found were killed, and perceived
them to be Tartars. About an hour after, they
made another attempt, to see where they might
break in‘; but nding us ready to receive them,
they retired. e
All that night we wrought hard, in strength-
ening our situation, and barricading the entrance
into the woods; but when day light came we
made a very unwelcome discovery; for the ene-
my being encouraged by their numbers, had set
up eleven or twelve tents, in form of a camp,
about three quarters of ~a mile from us. -I must
confess, I was never more concerned in my life,
giving myself and all that I had over for lost.
And my partner declared, that as the loss of his
goods would be his ruin, before they .should be
taken from him, he would ght to the last drop
of his blood. As we could not pretend to force
our way, we had recourse to a stratagem; we
kindled alarge re, which burnt all night; and
no sooner was it dark, but we pursued our jour-
ney towards the pole or north star; and tra-
velling all night, by six o’clock at night we came
10 it Russian village, called Kertza, and from
s
thence came to a large town named Ozonzoys,
where we heard that several troops of Calmuc
Tartars had been abroad upon the desert; but
that we were past all danger. In ve days after
we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzedga;
from thence we came to Lawrenskoy, on the
third of July, where, providing ourselves with
two luggage boats, and a convenient bark, we
embarked the seventh, and arrived at Archangel
the eighteenth, after a year, ve months, and
three days’ journey, including the eight months
and odd days at Tobolski. We came from Arch-
angel the 20th of August in the same year, and
arrived at Hamburgh the 30th of September.
Here my partner and I made a very good sale of
our goods, both those of China and Siberia;
when, dividing our effects, my share came to
£3,475 17s. 3d. after all the losses we had sus-
tained, and the charges we had been at.--Here
the young lord took his leave of me, in order to
go to the court of Vienna, not only to seek
protection, but to correspond with his father’s
friends. After we had staid four months in
Hamburgh, I went from thence over-land to
the Hague, where embarking in the packet, I
arrived in London the 10th of January, I705,
after ten years and nine months absence from
England.
THE END.
cI_ A2,, 4, _____ _ ___A____ , W. _ _. - - "*
 
,___*_- .. __ __ _-__ _. .___ _*_ 7
‘Dean &Mn nday,Pi'inters,'l‘h readneedle-street, London-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
