 
 
 
 
 
 
THE
WONDERFUL LIFE
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF THAT RENOWNED HERO,
ROBINSON CRUSOE, ^
WHO IIVED TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS
ON AN
UNINHABITED ISLAND,
Whtih he afterwards Colonised,
Philadelphia:,
Printed by B. J 0 HNSQi$: Ho, $1,
HIGH STREET.
1802.
1
 
THE
LIFE and ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
 
J W A S born of a good family in the
city of Tork^ where my father, who was a native
of 'Bremen, had fcttle-d, afier having got haht-
some estate by meichandize. My heart began to
be very early filled with rambling thoughts 3 and
though when I grew up, my father often pctfuacU
ed rpe to fettle to* some business;, sncT my mothe$v
used the tenderest intreaties, yet,uotbjrtg vCipggfJ^
prevail upon me to lay aside my; desire.of g^l^
 
to sea: and I at length resolved to gratify tfy
roving disposition, notwithstanding the extreme
.uneasiness my father and mother always shew-
ed at the thoughts of my leaving them. As if
bent on my own destruction. I hardened myself
.against the prudent and kind advice of the most in-
dulgent parents; and being one day at Hull, where
I met with one of my companions, who was going
so sea in his father's ship, M easily persuaded me
On the siist of September^ 1651,1 went on board
,fbis ship, which was bound for London^ and without
Jetting my father know the ralh and disobedient
itep 1 had taken, set fail 5 but no sooner was the
ship out of the Humoer, than the wind began to
J>low, and the sea to rife in a most terrible manner.
Having never been at sea before, I was extremely
jsick, and my mind was silled with terror. I then
j>egan to grow sensible of my wickedness in $ifo-
<heying the best of parents, and their good counsel,
tears and entreaties came afresh into my mind, and
filjed me with fear and remorse. I expected every
wave would swallow us up, and in the agony of
my mind, made vows and resolutions* that if it
should please God to spare my life in this one voy-
age, 1 would go directly home to my father, and
never set soot into a ship again.
The next day the wind abated, and the tea grew
calm, I was no longer sea sick, and my companion
laughed at my fears; He ridiculed my gravity,and
with a bowl of punch made me half drunk* and thus
drowned my repentance and all my sober reflecti-
ons. The weather continued calm for several days
and we at length came into Yarmouth road, where
we cast anchor to wait for a wind. After riding
here four or five days, the wind bltw very hard:
the road however being reckoned almost as goodL
as an harbour, we were under no apprehensions,
bur spent the time in rest and mirth, till the eighth
day in the morning, when the wind encreafed* and'
we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts*
and cast'our sheet anchor. • ,'
It nov^ blew a terrible storm; I began to fee ter-,
'rgr and amazement in the faces even, of thfcfeamcri
'A 3
themselves ; and as the master passed by me, I could
hear him say softly to himself, Lord be ?nerciful to
US) we snail be lost. During the first hurry I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin in the steerage. I
could ill resume the penitence I had so apparently
trampled upon: I even hardened myself against it,
and thought that this storm would pass over like
the first. But when the master came by me, and
said we fliould all be lost, I wac. terribly frighted: [
got up out of my cabin, and looked about, but such
a dismal sight I never before saw; the sea ran moun-
tains high, and broke upon us every three or four
minutes: A {hip foundered ac a distance: Two
ships that were near us had cut their masts by the
board; and the mate and boatswain beeped of his
master to let them cut away our foremast,
'I cannot express the horror of mind with which /
was then seized; / was in ten times more terror on*
account of my having flighted my former convict!-'
ons, than even at death itfjf. The storm still en-
.creased, and /saw (what is but too seldom seen) the
master and boatswain, and several others at prayers.
xpecting that every moment the ship Would go to
he bottom. In the middle of the night, one of the
Yuen, who had been down on purposes cried out we
lad sprung leak, and had four feet water in the
fiold, upon which all hands were called to the pump.
1/ worked with the rest, but the water gained upon
Jus, and it was apparent that the ship would found-
er : the ftorm however beginning to abate, themas^
[ter fired guns for help and a light ship which had
[rid it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to
[help us. It was with the utmost hazard that it came
[near us, but the men ventured their lives to fare
ours: and our men casting a rope over the stern
with a buoy, they after much labour and hazard
[got hold of it, and we hauled them close under our
stern, and got all into the boas But we had hardly
left the ship a quarter of an hour, when we saw
her sounder. My heart was in a manner dead
within me, with fright, horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
As it was impossible for the boat to get up vyith
the ship to which (he belonged, we endeavoured to
A 4
reach the shore and partly by rowing and partly bj
being driven by the waves, we at last with great
(jifficulty got to land, and walked to Yarmouth
where we were received with great humanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town who assigned us
good quarters, as by the particular merchants and
owners of ships* and had money given us suffici-
ent to carry us either to London or back to Hull.
Had / now had the fense to return home, my fa-
tter would have received me with tenderness; but a
weak and foolish sliame opposed all thoughts of it 5
/ was afraid of being laughed at among the neigh-
bours, and lhould be afliaroed not only to fee my
father, but every body else, /had, without blush-
ing, committed an action which bore all the marks
of folly; but was ashamed of returning, though that
Was the wisest step / could have taken. / remained
some time in doubt what course to take j but having
faoney in my pocket, /travelled to London^ by land.
On my arrival in that city, / happily fell into n0;
bad company j but being well dressed, / contracted
an acquaintance with the master: of a ship who had
• 9
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9
been on the coast of Guinea, and having had good
success there, was resolved to go a^ain; and he tak-
ing a fancy to me, told me, that i? I would go the
voyage with him / should be at no expence; and if
/would carry any thing with me / stiould have the
advantage of trading for myself. Encouraged by
this offer, by the assistance of some of my relations
with whom / still corresponded, / raised 40I. which
/ laid out in futh toys and triflles, as my friend the
captain directed me to buy. But though in this*
voyage / was continually sick, being thrown inta
a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the cli-
mate; yet, under my worthy friend, / got a com-
petent knowledge of the mathematics^ and the rules
of navigation; learned how to keep an account of
the (hip's course, and to take an observation r in a
word this voyage made me both a sailor ami a mer-
chant; for / brought home five pounds nine oun-
ces of gold dust for my adventure., \vhrch yielded;
me ifi Lmdoriy at my return almost jdal.-
/ was now set up for a Giimta trader;' and mjr
friend, to-my' gfcat misfortune,dving soon after hte
A 5
arrival, / resolved to go the same voyage again,*nd
having left £oql. in the hands of my friend's widow
1 embarked in the fame vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now the
command of the (hip. This was one of the most
pnhappy voyages that ever man made; for as we
were steering between the Canary islands and the
Jfrlcan flioie, we were surprized, in the grey of
jthe morning, by a Moorish royer of Saileey whq
gave chafe to 'us, with all the fail (he could make.
We also crowded al} thp canvass our yards could
spread \ but finding thac the pirate gained upon us
jmd' would certainly come up with us in a few
jhours, we prepared ro fight; pur ship having twelve
guns and the pirate eighteen* About three in the
afternqon he came up with us? and $ very smart en«
- g^gement ensued \ but atter having twice cleared
.the deckW the Mpors? and lost three of our mefy
find had eight >yqunded, we were obliged to fub&rrt,
pnd xvere all carried prisoners into Sallee, 3 pbH
*hchi%u>g to the Moors.
The ulage 1 found yvas not so dreadful as t-fy
£rst apprehended; nor was I .carried as the rest of
our men were to the Emperor's court, but was kept
by the captain of the rover as his own pri£e, and
made his slave. As my master took: me home to his
house, I was in-hopes that he would carry me with
him to sea, and that he would some time or cither be
taken by a man of war belonging to some christian
power, which would give me liberty. But this hope
was soon taken away; far when he went to sea, he
left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
to do the common drudgery of a stave about his house
My master having the long^bdar, of an Englijb
!hip, had a little state-room or cabin built in the
middle of it, like a bargej with a place behind it to
steer, and haul home the main sheet, another before
for a hand or two to work the fails. In the cabin
was room for him to lie. with a slave or two, and a
table to eat on, with some small locked ^Hptit in
feme bottles of such provisions and liqi^jl; as he
thought sit to eat and drink, particularly fiK bread,
rfee, and Coffee;
v:Ift,this pleasure-boat he frequently went out a
 
A 6
fifliinf ,and as I was most dextrous at catching fish
for him, he never went without me. One day he
had appointed me to go out with this boat with two
pr three Moors of some distinction, and had there-
fore sent over night a larger store or provisions than
itfual} and ordered me to get ready two or three
fjufils with powder and shot, which were on board
his fliip; for that they designed to have sport at
fpwjing, as well as fishing. But in the morning,
he came on board? filing me that his guests had
declined going, ani^fiiered me with the man and
boy, to fail put ^fSi the boat, and catch some fifh^
for his friendiWert to sup with him.
At this moment the hppes of my deliverance
darted into my thoughts and I resolved to furnish
rnyself for a .voyage, I told the Moor, that we must
Dot presume to eat our master's bread; he said that
was truje, and brought a large basket of rusk, and
three jars of fresh water into the boat. I knew
where my master's cafe of bottles stood, which ap*
peared by their make to have been taken out of
English prize, and I conveyed them into the
 
boat, while the Moor, whom we called Muhy^
was on shore; and also a great lump of bees wax,
with a parcel of twines, of which I afterwards
made candles, an hatchet, a ftw and a hammer.
Every thing being prepared, we sailed out of the
port to fish; but purposely catching none, 1 told
Muley that this would not do, and that we must
stand further off, which he agreed to, set the sails,
and I, having the helm, ran t'^e boat on near a league
father, and then brought hsr fp, as if I would fisli,
when giving; the boy the helm,^Htept forward and
stooping behind the Moor, tool'hraf^surprize and
tossed him overboard into the sea ; hrWe immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cor k, and called to me to
take him in; but reaching one of the fowling
pieces, I presented it at hir», and told hi^, if he
came near the boat, I would (h<x>t him through the
head; but as the sea \vas calm, he n ight easily
reach the shore. So he turned about, and swam to«^
wards the land, and as he was an excellent swim-
mer, I made no doubt that he reached it with.eafc.
. When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whdtfl
 
they called Xury, and said to him, Xury, if you will
be faithful to me i will make you a great man; but
if you will not stroke your face to be true to me,*
(that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard J
1 must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled
in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not mistrust him j he swore to be faithful to me5
and to go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea
that he might think me gone to the streights, as any
body in his wits would have done ; but it no sooner
grew dark, than 1 foolishly changed my course, and
steered to the south, and having a fresh gale of windt
I made such sail, that before the end of the next day
I believe I was beyond the Emperor of Marrow-
ed's dominions. Yet so dreadful were my appre-
hensions of falling into my master's hands, that I
Would not stop to go on shore, till I had sailed iiv
that manner five days; and then the wind shifting
to the southward I ventured to come to an anchofc
at the mouth of a little river.
The principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We entered the creek in the evening, resolved to
swim on shore as soon as it was dark; but we then
heard such a dreadful roaring and howling of the;
wild beasts, that the poor boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go ashore, 'till day.
Well, Xury, said I, then I won't,but we may then
see men who will be as bad to us as these lions:
Then we may give them the Jhoot gun, fays Xuryr
laughing, make them run wey\ such English Xury
spoke, by conversing among us slaves. About two
or three hours after we saw monstrous great crea*
tures come down to the sea shore, and run into the
water in order to wash and cool themselves, mak-
ing the most hideous hovvlings and^yellings. Xury
said it was a lion, and called on me to weigh the
anchor, and put out to sea, and instantly I sow a
wild beast within two oars length of us; but though
JL was much surprized, I stepped up to the cabin
door, and snatched up a gun, fired at him; upon
^vhrch he immediately turned about and swam to.
wards the sliore. But it is impossible to describe
the horrible noisejthe hideous,cries and feovvlrngs,
that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore
as higher within the country, upon the report of
the gun; and this convinced me, that there was no
going on land at night.
But though I was no less afraid of the savages
than of the wi Id beast, our necessities obliged us to
land, for we had not a pint of water left. The next
morning Xury aslced for one of the jars, and said
he would go and seek for water. I aslced him why
he would go. The boy answered with so much af-
fection, that I could not help loving him. If wild
mans come they eat you go away. Well Xury,
said I, we will both go, and if the wild men come
we will kill them \ they shall eat neither of us. I
then gave Xury a dram out of the cafe of bottles, and
having hauled the boat as near the stiore as we
thought proper, waded to the land, carrying noth-
ing but our arms, and two jars for water,
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, lest
any savages should come in canoes down the river
but the boy fteing alow place about a mile up the
country, rambled thither} and by and by I saw him
pme running towards me, when thinking he might
e pursued by some savages or frightened by a wild
east, I ran to meet him ; but when I came nearer,
saw something hanging over hrs shoulder, which
72s a creature he had shot like a hare, different in
:clour and longer legs, and we found it very good
neat; but the great joy poor Xury came with,
vas to tc)l me he hzd found good water, and fee
10 wild mzns. We therefore filled our jars, feast-
ed on our hare, and set sail.
Several times after we were obliged to go on
hore for fresh water, and once in particular, com-
ng to an anchor, early in the morning, under a lit-
tle point of land, and staying for the tide going
farther in, Xury called softly to me, and told me, that
we had best go farther off the shore; for fays he,
look yonder lies a dreadful monster fast asleep. I
looked where he pointed to, and saw a great Lion
that lay on the side of the ftore, under a shade of
a piece of the hill that hung a little over him;
upon which charging my three guns I took aim
at his head, but lying with his foot raised a lit-
tie above his nose the Aug broke his leg. He start-
ed up growling, but fell down again ; then rose up-
on three legs* and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard; but as he was going to make oft' I
fired again, and (hooting him into the head, had the
pleasure to fee him drop, and lie struggling for life.
At this, Xury asking leave to go on shore, I con-
sented; so jumping into the water with the little
gun in one hand he swam with the other; and com-
ming close to the lion, put the muzzle of the piece
to his ear, and shot him into the head again, which
dispatched him quite. I now resolved to take off
his skin, and going ashore, the boy and I accom-
plished it, but not without great labour. Then
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun dried it
in two days time, and it afterwards served me to
He upon.
After this stop, we still proceeded to the south*
ward for ten or twelve days, in hopes of making
the river Gambia or Senegal, or of meeting with
fame European ship, living all the while very spar-
ingly on our provisions which began to grow shorts
We now saw that the land was inhabited, and that
all the people we could fee were black, and stark
naked. Drawing nearer to land, they ran along the
shore a good way, with no weapons in their hands
except one of them, who had a lance. I made signs
to them for something to eat, and they making signs
for me to stay, I lowered my fail, and lay by j while
two of them ran up into the country, and in less
than half an hour returned with two pieces of dried
flesti, and some corn; but though I was willing to
accept it, 1 was loath to venture on shore to them,
and they were as much afraid of us; but they took
a fase way for us all; for they brought it to the
shore, and laying it down, went away and stood at
a distance till we fetched it onboard, and then re-.
turned. We made signs to thank them, for we ha4
nothing that we could give them in return.
At this instant an opportunity offered of oblige
ing them, for two furious wild beasts, one pursuing
the other came running with great swiftness from
the mountains. These naked people were terribly
frighted, especially the women: and all fled except
the man who had the lance* But without attempt-
ing to fall upon the negroes, they plunged into the
sea, and at last one of them came nearer our boat
than I at first expected. However I was prepared
for him, and as soon as he came within my reach,
I fired, and shot him through the head, when strug- ^
gling for life he made towafds the (horej but died
before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures at the noise and fire of a gun;
some were ready to die for fear, and fell down as if
dead with terror. But when they saw the creature
dead and that I made signs to them to come to the
shore, they took courage, returned, and began to
search for the creature that had sunk. I found him
by the blood staining the water, and by the help os
'a rope which I flung round him, and gave the ne-
groes to haul, they dragged him to land, and found
that he was a fine Leopard, most beautifully spot-;
ted. The other creature, frightened at the gun>;
swam back to shore & ran directly to the mountains.;
I soon found that the. Negroes were for eating;
the flefli of the leopard, and I made signs for them
that they might take if, at which they feemed ex-
tremely pleased. They immediately set to work,
and with a sharpened piece of hard wood, took off
the skin more readily than / could have done with a
knife* They offered me some of the flesh, which /
declared accepting: but made figas for the skin,
which they freely gave me, and brought me a gre^t
deal more provisions, which I accepted. I then took
one of my jars, and holding it bottom upwards, let
them fee that it was empty, and that I v/anted to
have it filled. This they understood, and two of
them running away returned with a large vessel
made of earths which seemed as if burned in the
fun; this they set down as before, and 7 sent Xury
on shore with my jars, where he filled them.
About ten days after, as / was steering out to
sea, in order to double a cape, /had the vte# of
some islands, which / supposed to be those of Cap*
Verd* 1 was afraid of venturing so far from the
shore, for if /should be taken with afresh gale of
wind, I might never be able to reach again either
the one or the other. In this dilemma / fat down
in the cabin; when on a sudden Xury cried out in
a fright, Master, Master, a (Lip! fooiifliiy imagin-
ing that it was his master's snip, came so far in
pursuit of us. /jumped out of the cabin, and saw
that it was a Portuguese vessel. / instantly stretch-
ed out to sea with all the sail / could make: but
when I began to despair of my ever coming near
enough to make any signal to those on board, they
perceived me by the help of their piaffes, and sup-
posing it some European boat belonging to a ihip
that was lost, shortened fail, to let me come up.
On my coming near, they asked me what / was,
in Portuguese, in Spani/Ji, and in French-, but /
understood none of them; at last a Scots sailor on
hoard called to me* and /answered /.was an Eng-
lishman^ that had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bid me come
on board, and very kindly tooJc me in, a ad all my
goods.
My joy at this deliverance was Inexpressible, /
immediately offered all / had to the captain of f$*e
(hip; but he generously told me he would take
nothing from me; he said that all / had should be
delivered to me when / came to the Brasils : and
that he would save my life upon no other terms,
than on such as he would be glad to be saved himseK",
if ever he should happen to be in my condition. He
offered me 80 pieces of eight for my boat, 40 du-
cats for the lion's fkin^ and 20 for the leopard's,
and for my boy Xury he offered me 60 pieces of
eight, which / was loath to take; for / was unwil-
ling to fell the boy's liberty who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own \ but when / told
him my reason* he owned it to be just, and offered
to give the boy an obligation to set him free in ten
years if he turned christian > and Xury readily con*
senting, /let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasthy and
arrived in AlLsaints bay in about twenty-two days.
The generous treatment of the captain / can never
enough admire; he recommended me to an honest
man, who had a plantation and a sugar house, with
whom / lived till /had learnt the manner of plant-
ing and making of sugai^ after which / took out a
letter of naturalization, purchased a piece of land
that was uncultivated, and became a planter.
I at first laboured under some difficulty, and was
obliged to undergo much fatigue. For two years
I rather planted for food than for any thing-else;
but having at length cleared a sufficient quantity
of land, I planted some tobacco and a few sugar
canes, and began to thrive. Meanwhile the good
captain who had taken me up at sea, and whom I
had intrusted with getting for me, on his return to
Europe*) half the money I had left in London^ receiv-
jooh out of the 200I. I had left there., and laying
it out to the best advantage in tools and Englijh
cloth, stuffs, &c. he arrived in Brasil with his trea-
sures which turned to great account, and enabled
me to advance my plantation, and to purchase two
negro staves, and an European servant.
Had 1 continued in the stauo 1 - ,„n? now in, I
might have been happy, but growing iich apace,
my"head began to be full of projects and undertak-
ings beyond my reach, I had lived h«re about
four years, and had not only learned the language,
but contracted an acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow planters, and several merchants.
I had frequently talked to them of the method of.
purchasing negroes on the coast of Guinea, and
shey being pleased with the project, easily prevailed
on me to make a voyage for that purpose. We
fitted out a ship of about 120 tons burden, which
carried 6 guns, and 14 men, besides the master, his
boy and myself 5 and had no other cargo, but such
toys as were fit for trading with the negroes.
In this vessel I set fail, with the hopes of pureba*
sing slave*, to assist us in our plantations; and
stood to the northward in order to stretch over to
the African coast. We had very good weather for
about twelve days; but soon after we had crossed
the line, a violent hurricans drove us quite out of
eur knowledge, and for many days together not any
in the foip expected to save their lives. In this dis-
tress one of our men died of a calenture, and a mart
and a boy were washed overboard f btrt about the
twelfth day, the storm abating> we fbundbwe were
5t£ The Life and Adventures of
in II deg. north lar. upon the co.<st of Guitt*4r%
upon which ic was res;>lvcd to stand away for Bar~
badoeS) in order to resit.
With this design we changed our course; but
soon after a s-.cond storm arose, which carried us
with the sune impetuosity westward, and drove us
out of the v/ay of all human commerce. In this
distress ^nc of our men, early one morning cried
cut, Land! and we had no sooner ran our of the?
cabin, in hopes of seeing w here we were, but the
ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her rud-? ,
der being stopped, the sea broke over her in suc^a
manners th;»t we expected we should have periflied.
It is not easy to conceive our consternation, for
the racreof the sea was still great, we supposed that
tHe {hip would in a few minutes break to pieces, Be-
fore the storm we had a boat at the stern, but she was
staved by dalhing against tSe snip's rudder. We
had another boat on board, whuh the mate laid
hold of, and with the help of the rest of the men,
stung her over the ship's side, and getting all if to
!|cr, beistj eleven in number, committed ©uric^ves
to God's mercy; the wind dnving us towards the
stiorc, we sooi plainly law, that the sea went*so
high, that the boat could not escape and that we
{h juld inevitably be drowned. However we steered
towards land \ but after we had rowed, or rather
been driven about a ba?ue a,id a half, a wave
mountain hi;:h, came rolling a stern of u% and took
us with a svich f»ry, that it overset the bo*c at once,
.and separated us o ie from another. This wave ,
carried me a sn~eat way t'.waids the Chore, and h^v~
ing spent itself went back, and left me upon the IapA
almost dry, but half dead wtth the water I took i
I had however so much presence of mind as Weil
as breath left, that feeing mylVlf nearer the mawa,
land than I expected, I got upon my f~fftr ar^d; .en-*,
deavoured to make towards it, as f-ft a^ I could, be-
fore another wave should return; but I saw rhe sea
Come after me as high £s a great hill, and as fin ious
as an enemy, which Iflpd no means of stte«.gtn to
contend with; my business was to hold r y bresuh,
, and raise myself upon the water, if i co.uloj ctw tho?
B 2 \ . 
same time taking care that it did not carry me bade
With it, when it retired towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I
could feel myself carried with prouigious swiftness
a very great ways towards the shore, but I held mv
jbreath, and endeavoured to swim forward with all
gxiy might. I was ready to burst with holding my
i^preat'h, when I found my head and hands shoot
&bove the surface of the water; and though I could
scarcely keep myself in this situation above two se-
conds; yet it s;aveme breath and fresti courage. I
was covered again with water a good while; how*
ever, i held out, and finding the water had spent
itself, I struck forwards, and soon felt the ground
again with my feet. 1 stood still a few moments to
recover breath, till the waters went from me, and
then took to my heels, and ran with all the strength
I had left towards the shore. But neither woaJd
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which
overtaken me, and hurrying me along as before,
dashing me against a piece of rock, and }eft me
senseless; but recovering before the return of the
waves, I held fast by the rock rill the waves abated;
and then ran again. In fho:t, after another wave
or two, I got to the mair. knd: clambe/ing up the
cliffs of the shore, and fa: me down on the grafs.
I now began to trunk God that my life was
ftved, and liling up, I walked about on the stiore,
filled with ecstasy, and wrapt op in the contempla-
tion of my uvvn happy oeliverance.
But 1 soon found my cop sorts abate; for I was
wet and had no deaths to shift me; and looking
round I saw no proGect bvt. that of perishing with
hunger, or of b~irg devoured by wild beasts 1 for
I had no weapon either to kill any creature for my
sustenance, or tv> defend me from any beast that
might desire to kill me for theirs ; in a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe and a
little tobacco in a box; that was all my provision;
and night coming on, I walked about a ftrr long-from
the shore to see if I could find any fn?fli water to
<3rink, which I did to my great joy v and having
4vmk and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prcf»
ver t burner, I climbed into a tree, I then c&t a.
short thick fKck for my defence; endeavouring to
place myself so as that if I should sleep, I might not
fall, and being much fatigued, slept very comfor*
tahiy till morning.
'When I awaked it was broa4 day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated: but what surprised me
most was: that in the ni^ht the ship had been lifted
up from the sand by the swelling os the tide, and
diivervalmost as far as <,he rock, against which I had
been dashed, and she standing upright*, I wished
myself on board.
'* A little aster noon, I found the sea very calm,
and the tide ebbing lo far out, that I could com§
within a quarter os a mile of the ship; when I saw
that is we had stayed on board, we had all been safe,
Snd I not so miserable and lest destitute of all com-
pany and comfort 5 and this forced tears into my
eyes. The weather being extremely hot, I pulled
off my cloaths, and took "to the water; hut when I
Came to the ship* I found no means of getting on
board, (he lying so high, that I could find nothing
within my reach; I swam round her twice, and the
second time, observing a small piece of rope hang*
ing down I got hold of it and cot into the foreca-
st. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in the hold j but to my
great joy saw that all the ship's provisions were
dry; and being well disposed to eat, I went to the
bed roorT, and (lipping on a waistcoat, filled n\y
£c kets with buifiuir, and eat as I went about
oihvr things. I also found some rum in the great
cabin, of which 1 'took a large dram* to enable me
to accompli 11) rry design.
As I found several spare yards, and /erne large
spars of wood, I let them down with ropes by the
(bio fides, and going down to them, tide them to-
gether and made a raft, placing several pieces of
plank upon them cross ways \ after which I laid
upon it all the pieces of board that came to band.
I next broke open and emptied three of 'the fea-
tr-en's chests; then lowered them down-'upon the
raft, and filled them with bread some dikd goat's
Scfli, and .three Dutch cheeses* I fcuntWfVcral
B4
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial Waters
and about five or six gallons of arrsck; these I stow-
ed by themselves, there being no room for them in
the chests. 1 also let down the carpenters chist*
"Which was worth to me mere than a ship load of
gold. I next foimd two good fowling piece?, and
two pistols* with some powder horns, two barrels
of powder, aud two old rusty swords, all os which I
placed on the raff, and with this invaluable cargd
resolved to put to sea, without either sail?, oars,or
rudder 5 but the tide was now rising, and set in for
the shore, and the little wind there was blew to-
wards land £ besides I found two or three broken
ears that belonged to the boat, which served me to
push the raft alon|>
For about a mile my raft west very well* and
with it I entered a creek t but after having several
times narrowly escaped oversetting it, I thrusted
it on a flat piece of ground, over which the tide
flowed, and there fastened it by sticking my broken
oar* in the ground. Thus 1 stayed till the water
ebbed, when I placed my cargo safe ©n land.
At night I barricadoed myself round with the
chests and hoards 1 had brought on shore, of which
I had made a kind of hyt.
The next day, considering; that I might yet get
many useful thingsoutof the ship, particularly the
rigging and sails, I lesolved to make a second voy-
age. My raft being .too unwieldy, I swam to the
ship and made*another, on which 1 places twc. or
three bags of nails and spikes, some hatchets, a
grind-stone, two or three iron crows, seven mus-
kets and another fowling piece, two barrt] of n us-
ket bullet*, a large bag of snail slr>t, all the
men's cloaths I could find, a squaie fore top foil,
a hammock and son e bedding j ard all these, to
my great conuoit, I brought safe to land.
I now went to work to make a litre hat'with
the sail and some poles, which I cut for that pur-
pose; and into it I broupht every thing I kiuw
would spoil either with the sun or rainj *l pited all
the empty chests and casks in a cUeferound* the
hut to fortify it from any sudden atte^$ft>:k cm man
tr beast $ I blocked up the dper \vkh^ feai'4|5 aadJ
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying
my two pistols just at my head, and my gun by
me, I went to bed and slept very quietly all night,
I was not satisfied yet j but every day at low
water I went on board and brought away some-
thing; what gave me the greatest pleasure was,
that after 1 had made five or six of these voyages,
and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship worth taking, I found a great hogshead of
bread, three large runlets of rum, a box of fine
sugar, and a barrel of fine flour,
I had been thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, but in one of the
excursion had the mi-f>rtune to overset my raft;
but n being in shoal water, and the things being
thiefiv heavy, I recovered many of them when the
>ide was out. Indeed had the calm weather con-
tinued I believe I should hwe brought away the
whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing; the
twelfth time to go on board I found the wind be-
gan to rif-; however at low water I went, then
rumnjaging the cabin, I discovered a locker with
ROljjfSON CR-tfSOR 3$
drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, s pair cf large fciffars, with ten or a dozen
good knives and forks, and in another a^out 36L
value in gold and silver coin. At the siVhr of the
money I smiled to myself, and said aloud, O drug I
what art thou goodfor F one of these knr es are
worth all ibis heap; / have no manner of use for
tbte<> eyen rtrnain where thou *rty Zsf go to the bottom.
However upon second thought I took it i way, and
wrapping all in a piece of canvas, began to think
of making another raft: but while I was preparing
it, the wind began to rife, and to blow off shore;
I then found that it was my bufines* to be £one,
before the the tide or flood began, lest I should not
be able to reach the shore: accordingly I le t my-
self down into the water, and swam to land, 'which
J performed with great difficulty*?scorn the weight
of the things I had about me, and me rouglmess of
the water*
It blew vary hard all night, and in morning
when I looked out, no more slupjHras-to be feeif,
I was a little surprised; however J tdrnfofie&mj±
Mi with there-flection, that I bad made ihe best ufe
B 4
gfi The Lt/e and if
ot my time. I now went in {earch of a placg
wh re I might fix*nriy dwelling; endeavouring to
ch ,se one where fmight have the advantage of an
healthy situation, fresh water, and security from
being surprised by any man or ravenous beast. I
found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, which
was there as steep as the side of a house; so that
nothing could come down to me from the top ; on
the side of this rock was :a hollow place, like the
entrance of a cave, before which I resolved to fix
my tent. This plain was not above 100 yards in
breadth, and twice as long descending to the sea.
Before I set up my tent~ I drew a half circle be-
dsore .the chol low placs, which extended twenty
.yards, and in this halt circle pitched two rows of
'strong stakis^driving them into the ground like
yiles: thty stood about five feet and a half out of
• ^he ground, sharpened on the top. Then I took the
pieces of cable / had cut in the (hip, ard laid them
•in rows one upon another up to the top; & this fence
was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
enter it. This cost me much time and laboAii^
efpeeiallyjn .cutting the piles in the woodj&rii^
 
ing them to the place, and driving them into the
earth. The entrance I made*bya short ladder to
go over the top, v/hich when I was in, i lifted over
after me. Into this fence I by degrees carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition and
stores, and made me a large tent to secure myself
& them from the weather. When I had done this, i
began to work my way into the rock, which was
pretty soft, laying all the earth and stones I dug
out within the fence, in the manner of a terrace,
and thus I had a cave j'jst behind my tent,
But for many days after I had taken all I could
£et out of the ship. I could not forbear going up
to the top of this high hill, and looking: out to sea^g
I sometimes fancied I saw a fail at a vast distance
pleased myself with the hope* of it; loQ^«8\ftp^|^..':
ly at the plac^ till I was almost blind, ld|S iiqukei
and then bemoaning my lonely situation,wep^j^
a child, and encreased my misery by my follv. 1
But before the above works were compSeated^a^
sudden storm of thunder and lightning filled me with
the greatest terror 5 for my pcnydsr suddenly darts4
 
into my mind, and my heart sunk within me at the
thought, that at one blast: it might all be destroyed;
on which, not only my defence, but the providing
es my food depended. No sooner was the storm
ever, when I laid aside every other work, to make
boxes and bag?, in order to separate my powder;
of these I made about a hundred, and put about a
pound and a half of powder in each which took up
my whole stock; I then put them into holes up
and down the rocks in such a manner, that one par-
cel should not fire another.
While all this was doing, I walked out at least
once eveiy day with my gun, as well to divert my-
self as to fee if I could kill any thing fit for food,
and as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the ifland produced. The first time I went
out I had the pleasure to find there were goats in
the ifland; but they were so stiy, so subtle, and so
swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in
the world to come up with them but observing that
they did not easily fee objects above them, I often
killed them by climbing up the rocks, and jfoootr
ing at those in the valleys. During these reunds.
I found in the woods a kind of wild pigeons, which
built in holes of the r jcks; and taking some young;
ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, but t
when they grew old, th^y flew away; however I
frequently found their nest?, and got their young
ones, which were very e^ood meat.
After I had been about ten or twelve days on
shore it came into my thoughts that I should loso -
my reckoning of time, and should not be able tQ
distinguish the Sundays from working days, N Td
prevent this, I set up a large square post on the
fliore where 1 first landed and cut upon it with a
knife, I came on store here the 30//; of Sept. 1659*
Upon the sides 1 cut every day z notch, and every
seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long agaia as that
long one, and thus I kept my weekly, monthlj,
arid yearly reckoning.
I had got from the ship, some pens, ink,,and pa-
per; some mathematical instruments, and three,
good bibles, with several other book*, whictvl
carefully secured. I also brought to shore with me,
two cat?, and a dog swam on shore, who was a
trusty servant to me many years $ nay he was so
good a companion, that 1 was at a loss for nothing
he could fetch me; and he only wanted the power
of speech to become a most agreeable friend. Tho'
I had amassed so much, there were many things I
wanted, fitch as a spade, pickax, and (hovel, pins,
needles and thread, as for linen, I soon learnt to do
well enough without it; but the want of tools made
every thin£ go on slowly. It was neaily a year
before I finished my pales and surrounded my ha-
bitation; but what need had I to have been con-
cerned at the tediousness of any thing I had to do?
My work might well be tedious; for if I wanted
only a board, 1 had no way, after I had used those I
brought from the ship, but to cut down a tree, lay
the trunk before me, hew it flat on both fides with
my axe, till I had reduced it to a plank, and then
dub it smooth with my adze. Tedious work! but
my time was of little worch, and was as well em*
ployed that way as any other.
When my habitation was finished according to
the first plan, I found it far too small to contain all
my moveabks; every thing was in a confused heap,
and I had hardly room enough to turn myself; sol
f t nbout enlarging my cave, and laboured heartily
till I had worked sideways into the rock farther than
my euthde pale, and hewing a way through, made
a bark door to my store house. I then made me
a table a..-" chair, which were great conveniences:
shelved one side of my cave \ and knocked up pieces
of wood into the rock to hang my things on. When
my cave was set to rights, it looked like a general
m^g-zine of all necessary things; and it gave me
pleasure to fee my goods in such order.
What a different situation was I in now, from
that I was in whtn I fnst landed, when I was afraid
of perilling with hunger, or of being devoured
by wild beails!
But I scarcely finiflird my habitation when I had
like to have been buried in its ruins, I was at
work jnst in the entrance of my cavcVwheu all of
s sudden the earth came tumbling down from the
roof of my cavev and the edge of the hill, over my
head. I was heartily scared, and thought the top
of my cave was falling in* and for fear of being
buried in the rubbKh 1 ran forwards to my ladder,
and not thinking myself safi even there, got over
the wall, iestnlbine pieces of the hill Oimid roll
down upon me. I was no sooner on the ground
but it shook violently und-r me. There were three
Blocks at about eight minute-s distance, such as I
believe would have overturned the strongest build-
ing; and about half a mile from me a ^reat piece
of a rock fell down, with the most terrible noise 1
ever heard. The earthquake made my stomach
lick, and I was as one stupid ; but this terrible noise
roused me at once. I expected that the hill would
fail upon my tent and bury all my store: but wh-a
the third shock was over, and I felt no more,! be-
gan to take courage yet du;st not return over my
wall for fear of being buried alive. In a few hours
itrrained very1 hard, and this forced me into my
Cav.% as also to begin a new work, which was to
tut a hole through my fortification to let out the
water, that I might not be drowned. This and
clearing the cave of the rubbish took me up some
time. And I now propped up the top to prevent
its falling; again.
The star of being swallowed up alive prevented
my sleeping in quiet, and I thought of making my-
self a tent at some distance from the rock; yet the
apprehensions of lying abroad without a fence wat
almost equally terrible, and when L saw myself con-
cealed and safe from every other danger, I was loth
to remove-
In some little time I recovered from my fright,
and after that frequently killing goats for my
subsistence, whose fat supplied my lamp, which
was a drib made of clay baked in the sun, and for
wick I made use of oakum. In the midst of all
my labours, when I was rummaging among my
things, I found a little bag with a few hulks of
Corn in it, and wanting it, I shook it out by the-
fide of my habitation. This was just before some
heavy rain, and about a month afterwards, \ sew
some green stalks (booting out of the ground 1 but
how great was my astonishment when, some little
time after 1 saw about ten or twelve ears of barley I
It was sometime before I recollected the bag with
the hulks and I thought that they could have been
produced by nothing less than a miracle. With
this barley there also came up a few stalks of rice,
and these were worth more to me than fifty times
their weight in gold, and I carefully preserved
them for seed.
When I had been about a year in the island I
Was taken extremely ill, which frighted me ter*
ribly, imagining I should die for want of proper
help. This fit of illness proved a violent ague,
which made me so weak I could hardly carry my
gun, and when the fit was on me, I was almost
perished with thirst. One night as I was ruminat-
ing on my fad condition expecting the return of
my fit, it occurred to my thought, that the Bra*
fillans took no physic but tobacco, and I went,
directed by heaven, no doubt, to search for some
in a chest, and there found a bible j I brought
froth that and the tobacco t© my taWe \ I steeped
some of the last in rum, some I burnt in a pan
of coals, holding my head over the fume, and some
I chewed 5 during the interval of this operation,
I opened my book, and the first words on which
I cast my eyes were—Call upon me in the time ef
trouble^ and I will deliver thee. The words
struck me; but I could read no more; for the
tobacco made me excessive sleepy.. I therefore
went to bed, and falling into a found sleep, § be-
lieve I slept two days; for / lost a day in my reckon-
ing, which / could no other way account for:
another dose of this remedy quite cured f^je.
Soon after my recovery, / took a survey of the
island, and at about two miles distant from my
habitation, found some fine favannahs, and little
further a variety of fruit, melons upon the ground
and vines spread over the trees, covered with
clusters of ripe grapes, / proceeded with my dis-
coveries, and travelled four miles farther, when I
came to an ©pening that seemed to descend to th«
wfst, where every thing; was in such constant
verdure, that it looked like a beauliful garden. /
went to this delicious valley, and found cocoa,
©range, lemon, and citron trees. / now had
business enough, for / resolved to lay up .a store.
/carried some grapes and a few limes back with
me; but the grapes were spoiled before / got
home. 1 went the next day with bags, thinking
to bring home my harvest: but / found a large
parcel of grapes which /had laid on a heap, spread
abroad and trod to pieces. / therefore found that
there was no laying them upon heaps, nor carrying
them away in sacks, since they would be crushed
by their own weight; so / gathered a large quan-
tity of them, and hung tbem upon the out branches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the
sun j Dutasfor limes and lemons, / carried as
many back as /could well stand under.
/was so enamored with.this place, that /built
myself a bower, fenced with a double hedge; and
Sihis country house, as / called it, cost me two
months labour; but / hardly began to enjoy my
habitation, when the rains came on, and A%as
obliged to retreat to my old one, taking with me
tny grapes, which were now become fine raisins
(he s.m.
/ rud been concerned for the loss of one of my
cars, but about this time she can e home, and .en-
chased ii«y family w<th three }Oiing kittens;,she
hxvit.g bred, as / suppose, by a wild cat, of which
there were some in the woods and they soon
multiplied Cj Lst, that / was obliged to drive them
fiom me.
The rainy and dry seasons now appeared regular
to me, but I bought my experience before I had it*
1 dug a piece of ground as well as I could, with a
wooden spade of my own making, and began to
sow my grain; but as / was doing it, it occurred
to me that / would not sow all, for fear it fho^d not
grow, so / reserved about a handful of each "sort j
and well n was /didso; for it did not conie upfor
many months afterwards. When / saw it did not
grow, / sought for moister ground,dug |jp4
piece near my bower,which at^svveredtogvy'wifll^s,
and my crop amounted .to about half «^|<|f eack
kind % by this means / was n-7^;^0}xi^ti^&QV%
 
1%$ my business; knew when to sow, and that /
%ight expect two seed times, and two harvests eve->
ry year* fo*" the corn / set first came up after the
next wet season.
When the rains were over, / made a visit to my
bower, where / found that the stakes / let up for
mv defence, were shot up into trees which /
pruned and made as much alike as possible; and in
three years they became a compleat (hade. This
was my work in the dry season; and to employ my-
self when /could not stir abroad, / made baskets
of the twigs of these trees, having, when a child
taken much delight in seeing a bafkeUmaker, who
lived in the town where / was born, make his
wicker ware, / had soon made useful utensils of
this fort, and as they decayed / made more.
/n one of the dry seaso.is / took another ramble*
armed with my gun and a hatchet, and guarded by
imy faithful dog. When /had pasted the valley ia
which stood my bower, / came within view of the
sea, and it being a clear day, / plainly discovered
land j but whether island or continent, / could 110%
tell; /guessed it could not be Uss than 20 leagues
off. / imagined it was some savage coast, and such
indeed it proved. In this journey / caught ayoung
parrot, having knocked it down with a stick;
brought it home with me, and taught it to speak.
/ found in the lower grounds, hares; but as they
were not like any / had seen, / was afraid to eat
them, & / had nq need to make experiments, as I
had goats, pigeons, and turtles, which, added to,my
grapes, Leadcnkall market could not have fur*
nifhed a better table than / in proportion to the;
company. The shore was covered with innume-
rable turtles, tho* on my fide / had found but three
in a year and a half, Here was also an infinite num-
ber or" fowls of various kinds; but / was too spar-
ing cf my powder and shot to shoot them* and I
had rather have had a she-goat, becaufcJcould feed
on it without fear j they were, hoover, irtuch
more wild and shy here, than on royi£de of she
island, /travelled about twelve miles eastward
along the stiore, and then setting up cat poft
fbf a mark> returned homeward, designing'that my .
fle^ttour should beTne contrary way, *t\\\f came
to this post.
/tooka different way bonne from that / went;
but unfortunately lost myself, and wandering about
very uncomfortabl y, till at last / was obliged to find
out the sea fide to seek for my post, tired to death
with the heat of the weather, and the weight of my
arms. In this tour my cog seized a young kid, and
/saved it alive, highly pleased with the hopes of
having a breed of tame goats * but as / could not
bring it along without difficulty, and longed to be
at home, / left it within the inclosure of my bower.
/ cannot express what satisfaction it was now, to
come into my own hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock bed, when / constantly used there. / rested
myself a week^employed in the weighty affairs of
making a camfor my parrot, which soon became
one of my favourites. I now bethought me of my
kid, and hasted to my bovver to bring it home, or
to give it food; and the poor creature was so tame
by hunger, that it followed me home like a dog*
pt om that time it became one of my domestics alib$
and would never leave me.
I was now .thoroughly resigned to my sittfeitior;,
& pretty regularly divided my time between reft^Sc
labour. Going out in the morning with my gul*
for food about three hours, and worked about four
hours in the evening to make various necessaries,,
the weather being too hot for me* to work in the
middle of the day.
My corn was now coming up, and the goats
and the hares having tasted the sweetness of the
blade, lay at it night and day, as soon as it sprung
out of the ground, so that it could get no time to
shoot into a stalk. To defend it, / surrounded it
with a hedge, and in the mean while (hooting some
of the creatures hy day, /set my dog' to watch It
by night, which he did so faithfully that the ene-
mies forsook the place, and the corn «rew and'be-
gan to ripen apace. But as the beasts were nigh
ruining me while the corn was in blade, so the^
birds were my enemies when it was/iri the^ear > for
going along to fee how my harvest tSTo1i|^1 saw-
my little crop surrounded with fowls o|ris-||\pw not
how . many sortr. I let fly^ &t&o^g:'tft^j. whei*
 
there 2rose a little cloud of birds from the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for a single grain might
be said in its consequences, to be a peck loaf to
me, While.! was loading my gun again. I could
fee the thieves on all the trees round me, waiting
/|br my absence, and having gone a little way I
turned my head and saw them dropping one by one
Into my corn. I had no patience to stay till more
came, but again let off my piece and having killed
three, I used them as they do murderers in Eng~
land^ hanged them in chains to serve as a terror to
ihe rest. Not a fowl afterwards came near my
corn, or indeed near the place, as long as the scare
crows hung there.
When • my corn was ripe, I made me a scythe
with a sword, and cut off none but the ears, which
I rubbed out with my bands'. At the end of my
harvest, I guested that I had a bushel of vice, and
two bushels and a half of barley. I kept all this for
feed, and bore the want of bread with patience, as I
bad now a tolerable prospect of having as much as
I wanted.
This article of bread was a great difficulty; I
had neither plough nor harrow: for the first I
made my shovel do, and to supply the place of a
harrow, I went over it myself, dragging after me
the heavy bough of a tree, And when I carrie to^
make bread I had innumerable wants. I wanted
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt t&S
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it. How-;
ever, i had six months to contrive all these things •
in. In the mean time I enlarged the enclosure of
my arable land, working abroad in the dry season,
/made some mifhapen pots of clay, that all brokein
the fun except twowThich I cased in wicker work;
but /succeeded better in little pans, fat dishes
and pitchers; which the fun baked surprisingly
hard; but they would not bear the fire so as to hold
any liquid, and / wanted one to boil my meat.
One day afeer / had dressed my dinner, /went
to put out my fire, and found a piece of one of m/f
earthenware vessels burnt as hard as a stone, and
as red as a rile; this taught me tobur.n,my pipkins,
.and / soon wanted for no fort of eart^sb ware-j they
 
were ugly enough indeed, being made as children
make dirt pies: but when / found that 7 had made
a pot which would bear the sire, / had hardly pa-
tience to stay till it was cold, before / set it on
with a piece of kid, in order, to make me some
broth, which answered tolerably well.
/mademe a wooden morter and pestle; and also
a sieve out of some of the seamen's neckcloths, and
at length made a fort of an oven of abroad shallow
earthen vessel, and a tiled hearth. When / baked,
/drew the live embers forward upon this hearth*
rill it was very hot; then sweeping them away, /
set down my loaves, whelming the earthen pot over
them, which baked my barley bread as well as the
best oven in the world. I now became a complete
pastry cook, and made puddi and cakes; for /
had no longer need to be sparing of my corn, for
jny next harvest produced twenty bustiels of bar-
ky, and nearly the same quantity of rice, which
was as much as / could consume in a year.
While all these things were doin^, my thoughts
ran many times upon the land / had seen, and /
like a fool went to look for the ship's boat, which
had been c<<st high upon the shore b) the storm,
certainly if J had hands to have refitted her, flic
might have done well enough; but /could no more
move her than I could move the island. / spent
three or four weeks in cutting levers and rollers
in vain j and then fat myself to dig away the sand
from her with the fame success. This disappoint-
ment increased my desire of going over to the raaiit
and I began to make myself a canoe,; the most pre-
posterous enterprise that ever man in his fenses
undertook, I felled a great cedar, about five feet
in diameter next the root, but when the impossibi-
lity of launching this heavy thing came into mind,
I gave myself this foolish answer: Let me but once
make /V, and VII warrant PI get it along when it
is don€. I made it big enough to carry $5 men;
but <dl my devices to get into the water failed me,
for t could no more stir it than I could the -boat. I
then determined, since I could not bring my canoe
to the water, that I would bring the vv&t^\tathe.
sanae, and began to dig; but wfaaaI cal^iiUted
the time of this canal would take in making, I
found that I could not accomplish it in than it
yearS? and therefore gave it over, determined to
enjoy what 1 had, without repining for what I
Could not get.
My cloathe now began to decay; linen I had been
Without a good while, but the weather was warm,
and I had no great need of cloaths, yet I was un-
willing to be quite naked j besides, the fun blister-
ed my skin, and my head ached if I went without
a hat or cap; so I made myself two waistcoats out
of some watch-coat?, which lasted me a great while.
I made a cap out of a goat's skin, with the hair
side outwards, to throw off the rain, and also ano-
ther waistcoat of the fame skins ; but I must ac-
knowledge that they were Wretchedly done; for if
I was a bad carpenter, I was a worfo taylorV I
made me too an umbrella, which I could shut up
and take abroad with me, and this secured me botfi
from the heat and the rain.
Three or four years ;.fter, 1 made a little boat^
my umbrella serving both for a mast and an aw^*
ing. This I launched for a sea vbyage j but Jet
this be a warning to all rash and inconsiderate pi-
lots ; I put off and found a great ledge of rocks ly-
ing about two leagues in the sea, some above
water, and some under it, and a great shoal of sand
lying dry for half a league beyond them, so that I
should be obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point. Seeing this, 1 thought of giving
over the enterprise, and casting; anchor, went on
shore, when climbing a steep hill that overlooked
the point, I saw the full extent of it, and that a most
furious current ran to the east, with a strong eddy
near the shore, so that I had nothing; to do but to
get out of the current, and 1 stio^ld presently be
in the eddy, I therefore resolved to venture.
* The wind, however, blowing prettv hard,.I lay
here two days, and the third day in the morning,
the wind havine abated in the night, I fou$d the
sea calm and set sail; but l-xio sooner gfot within
the current, than I found myself in ereat depth of
water, and was carried along with such violence,
thafealt I could do, could not keep the boat on the
edge of it 5 but I found that it hurried me farther
and farther out from the eddy which was on the left
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all that a could do with my paddle signified
nothing; I now began to give myself over for lost;
I had no prospect before me, but that of perishing;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough; but of
starving with hunger. I had indeed on board a
stock of provisions, & having found a turtle on the
shore, as big almost as I could lift, tossed it into
the boat; and had a great jar of fresh water; but
what was thi3 to be driven with into the vast ocean?
Now I looked back upon my desolate solitary
ifland, as the most pleasant place in the world, and
stretched out my bands to it with eager wisties : O
happy desart! said I, / Jhall never see thee more:
O miserable creaiur? thai I am-> whither am 1
going,— Then I reproached myself with my un-
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my soli-
tary condition, and now what would I give to be
onshore thereagain* [worked hard till my strength
was almost exhausted \ and kept my boat as near
as possible to that side of the current on which the
eddy lay; when about noon,I thought I flit a little
breeze of wind in my face, blowing towards the
shore. This ravistied my spirits, especially when
about half an hour more it blew a gentle gale. By
this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from
the island ; and had the least cloud or hafcy weather
intervened, I should have been undone another
way, for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I spread my sail, standing
iiway to the north, and got out of the current*
They who know what it is to have a reprieve bro'c
them when at the gallows, or to be rescued frora
thieves just going to murder them, may guess 'what:,
was my present joy: how gladly I put my bo^t in-
to the stream of this ede'y and spread my sail to the
wind, running chearfully before it, assisted by a
strong eddy, which canied me about a leafftie.badte
again directly toward? the island, and the btfitf^;
still continuing, I reached is before night*
C 6
When 1 was on shore, I fell on my knees and
gave God thanks tor my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of escaping from the island in
my boat; and ^refreshing myself with such things
as I had, I brought my boat close to the Ihore in a
little cave that I found under some trees, and being
quite spent with the fatigue of the voyage, laid me
down to sleep. The next morning, I made my
way westward along the shore, to fee if there was
a creek where I might lay up my boat in safety;
when having coasted the shore about three miles,
3 cams to a very good bay about a mile over, which
narrowed till it came to a little rivulet where I
found a convenient harbour, and where she lay as
if she had been in a little dock made on purpose
for her; here I put her in, and having stowed my
boat very safe, went on fliore to see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot
to that shore; so taking out of the boat my gun and
my umbrella, I began my march, and reached my
bower in the evening, where I found every thing
as I left it-.
I got over the fence, and laid me down to sleep
in the shade; but judge of my surprise when I a-
waked, by a voice calling me by my name several
times, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe^
where are you? %ohere have you been? I was jso
dead asleep at first, that I thought I dreamt some-
body spoke to me; but as the voice continued re-
peating Robin Crusoe, I awaked dreadfully fright-
ed; but no sooner were my eyes open, than I saw
my Poll sitting on the hed>e, and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me. I immedi-
ately called him, and the poor ociable creature
came as he used to do, and sat on my thumb, cry-
ing Poor Rsbinson Crusoe, as if he had been over-
joyed to* see me return to my castle.
This dangerous ramble reconciled me to my de-
solate island, and resigned me to ihe expositions of
Providence. I be^an now to perceive my powder
consiclerably abated, & this was a want which it was
impoflible for me to supply; dreadi.ie what would
become of me when I could kill no more goats,
for my kid did not breed; I set snares to €atch some
alive, and particularly wanted a she goat with kjd;
but my snares were broker^ and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try pit-fails, in one of
which I found a large old he-gosr, and in another
three kid% a male and two females. The old one
was so fierce (hat I durst not meddle with him, but
the three kiss I brought home. It was sometime
before they would feed; but however they grew
tame, and I had the pleasure to find that I might
supply myself with goat's flesh, when I had no
powder or shot lest. I inclosed a piece of ground
to keep my goats in, propoimg as my stock increa-
sed to add more ground to my inclosure; and I had
soon not only goat's flesh to feed on but milk too;
for now I set up a dairy, and made myself butter
and cheese. It would have made a stoic smile to see
pie and my family sit down to dinner; there was
my majesty,' #}1 alone like a king, attended by my
servants. Poll, my favorite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was grown
very old, fat always at my right hand, and my two
cats, one an the one side of the table, and the other
on the other, expecting;, now and then, a bit from
ray hand, as a mark of special favour.
I had at length a great mind to go to the point
of the island to see how the shore lay and resolved
to travel thither by land. And now reader,, I will
give the® a short sketch of the figure I made, I had
a great high shapeless cap made of goat (kin, a jack-
et with the skirts coming down to the middle of my
thighs, and a pair of open knee'd breeches of the
fame, with the goats hair hanging to the middle of
my leg. Stocking and (hoes I had none; but I
had a pair of something?, I scarce knew what ia
call them, to flip over my legs like spatterdashes;
but of a most barbarous shape, and so indeed was
all the rest of my cioaths: 1 had a broad belt ofmj
goat skin dried, and in a fro** hung on one fide a
saw, and on the other a hatchet. I had another belt
not so bread, fastened over my shoulder.—Under
my arm hung two pouches for (hot and powder'i
on my back I carried a basket, cn ray shoulder a
gun, and over my head a great clumsy goatrflein;
umbrella. My beard was cut short, except wlrac
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers; but as for my
figure, as I had but few to observe me, it was no
matter of consequence.
In this figure 1 went my new journey, and was
out five or six days. When I came to the hill, I
was surprised to find the sea all smooth and quiet,
no rippling, no motion, no current any more than
in other places; but in the evening 1 found a cur-
rent as before. I use frequently to visit my boat,
and one day about noon, when I was going to it,
I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was plain to
be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunder-
struck; I listened; I looked around but I could
hear nothing, nor see any thing. I went upon a
rising ground to look farther; I walked backward
and forward on the shore, but I could only see that
one imprestion; I went to look at it again; there
was plaiily a foot, toes, heel, and every part very
dist'n ct: how it came there I knew not > but hur-
ried home to my fortifications, looking behind me
fevery two or three ueps, and fancied every tree,
bvfh, and stun p, to be a man. I had no steep that
night; but my terror gradually wore off, and 1
ventured down to take measure of the foot by my
own, but I found it much larger. This filled me
igain with ridiculous whimsies, and when I went
home 1 began to double my fortifications, planted
my seven |q;ufleets on carriages, in the manner of
cannor, and was at the expense of an infinite deal
of labour, purely from my apprehensions of this
print of a foot. And in particular I planted a vafi:
number of stakes on the outside of my wall, which
growing, became a thick grove, and entirely con-
cealed the place of my retreat, and greatly added
to n.y security.
After having secured my habitation in the strong*
est manner posilble, I sought for a place of security
for my live goat?> and at length found a piece of
ground which contained about three acres, in the
middle of a hollow and thick w?ood, and rendered
almost inaccessible by nature, so that it cost me but
little pains to make it so; and then I remov«d ttst
she goats and two he-goats into it.
After I had thus secured one part os my live
stock, I went about the whole island, & rambling
more to the western point than ever I had done be-
fore, I was presently convinced that the seeing the
print of a man's foot was not such a strange thin.g,
in the island, as I had imagined * for on my ap-
proaching the shore, I was perfectly eoBfounded
and amazed, nor is it possible to exprefTthe horror
I felt at seeing the sliore spread with the skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies \ and
particularly a place, where, as / supposed, there
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth
for the savage wretches to fit down to their inhu-
man feast on the bodies of their fellow creatures*
/ turned away my face from the horrid spectacle j
my stomach grew sick; / was just at the point of
fainting, and left the place as soon as possible.
When /got a little out ofth^t part of the island,
/looked up with the utmost affection of soul, and
with tears in my eyes, gave God thanks for plac-
ing me in a part of the world where / was diftirt-
guiflied from such wretched creatures as theje.
In this frame of thankfulness / went home to my
caftle, and began to be much easier as to my safe-
ty than /had been for some time before; for / ob*
served that these wretches never came to the island
Sch of what they could get. / had been in
and almost eighteen years, and never saw
fEciejjfcproofs of their having been there be-
fore; and might be eighteen more, concealed
as / was> if 1 did not discover myself to them.
But considering that they might be driven to my
side of the island, / became cautious of making a
fire at my castle, as I called it^ and therefore went
into the midst of the wood, where / made charcoal
to serve for my necessary occasions at home*
One day, when / was cutting some brush-
wooc), / found behind the bush I was cutting, a
hollow place, which / was curious of looking
into, and getting with difficulty into its mouth,
/found it sufficient for me to stand upright in it;
looking farther into.the place, which was perfect-
ly dark, /saw two bright shining eyes, whic%
twinkled like twe stars, from a dim light refie€b*
 
ed from the mouth of the cave. At this / went
out faster than / got in, but plucking up my
courage, /took up a great fire-brand, and rushed
in again with it flaming in my hand, when I was
moll: as much frighted as before j for I heardja
loud sigh followed by a broken nolle, and th^Pp
sigh again. I stepped back struck with such f^Mik
that it put me into a cold sweat. Ho we ver ^re-
covered resolution enough to step forward again,
and lifting up my light, 1 saw lying on the ground
a monstrous he-goat, gasping for life. I now re-
covered from my fright, and began to look round
me* This cave was but twelve feet over, and I
observed that on the farther side was an opening,
into which 1 crept upon my hands and knees: but
as I had no light I deferred going farther than the
entrance till the next day, when / brought candles
of my own making, and crept about ten yards,
after which the roof rose to about twenty feet high
and the wall reflected a hundred thousand lights
from my two candles. It was a deli htful grotto,
the floor dry and level, no damp to be felt, nor any
 
 
noxious creature to be seen. To this place I bro't
all my powder and all my spare arms, and now kept
at my castle only five guns, which stood ready
4jUecL
|had now been twenty-two years in fche islands
^1 so naturalized to the place, that had I
feure as to the savages, I then fancied I
lave been contented to have staid in it, till,
like the goat, I had died of mere old age; but
my twenty third vear, going: out at break of day,
I was surprised with the light of a fire on the shore,
towards the end of the island; which, to my great
affliction, was on my side. In this extremity I
went back directly to my castle; pulled up the
ladder after me, and put myself in the best posture*
of defence. I staid within two hours, when I be-r 
gan to be impatient for intelligence : but I had na
spies to fend out. Soon after t set my ladder to the
side of the hill, and then moXmted to the top r ani
lying down on my belly on the ground, I discovers
ed nine naked savages sitting round a fire They
had two canoes with ihem3and at the return of the
 
tide they went away. As soon as I Taw them gone,
"I took two guns upon my moulders,?|wo pistols at
my girdle, & a great sword without a scabbard, &
hastened to the place, where I sound that there'had
been no less than five canoes of them on the
which I saw altogether making over the^
The sight os the horrid carnage they had lef
them, so filled me with horror and indignatioi
I meditated the destruction of the next that cal
fliore.
Some time aster, in the midst os a very stormy
night, I was started at the firing of a gun ; I hasteef
up to the top of my hill, and heard another, l ima-
gined that these were signals of a ship in distress,
and such it proved, as 1 discovered the next day. I
cannot explain by the possible energy of words,
the emotion I felt at the sight of this wreck. O!
* that there had but been one saved! I cried; that I
might but have had one companion! one fellow
creature, to have spoken to and have comforted in
his affliction. vh'.
Under the power of this impression, ndibing
 
would serve me but I must go in my boat to this
wreck, which lay at a little distance. I furnished
myself with provisions for fear of being driven out
to fen, and having begun my voyage, I in two
irs time reached the (hip, which was Spanifi
She st"ck fast jammed in between two rocks,
"the stern and quarter were beaten in pieces
sea. On my coming near it, a dog yelped
^:ried; but there was no other living creature
on board : but I saw two men drowned in thecoolc
room, with their arms fast about one another, and
# all the goods were spoiled by the water* I bow-
ever took two of the seamen's chests Jn to my boar*
without knowing what was in them."
When I nad got my treasure home and began to
unload, I sound several bottles rilled with cordial
waters and feme neckcloths and shirts, which were
very useful to me; 1100 pieces of eight, and about
a pound /weight of solid gold. But of what use was
this to me ? I would have given it all for three or
four pair of (hoes and stockings.
After this acquisition 1 liveS in my old manner;
though terrified with fears of the savage?. One
morning very early I saw five canoc-s of then) on
shore* I clambered up my hill, and by the help of
my perspective discovered no less than thirty dan^&
ing round a fire. I soon after saw two HiiietffHH
wretches dragged out of the boats, one ofjBm^P
was immediately knocked down, but theWIflK
starting from them, ran with incredible svvifrBjJp
along the sands towards me. I confess I was
horribly frightened when I saw him come my way,
imagining he would be pursued by the whole body; *
however, I kept my station and quite lost m/j^-ap pre-
hension, whdrl found but three followed him. He
greatly out ran them, and was in a fair way of
escaping them all, when coming to a creek, he
plunged into it, landed, and ran as swift as before.
Of the three that followed, but two entered the
water, the other returning back, I hastily fetched
my guns from the foot of the ladder, and taking a
short cut down the hill, I clapped myself in tlvj£way
betwixt the pursued and the pursuers, .halloing
aloud to him that fled*, and beckoned with^pyhand
 
for him to come back ; then rustling at once on the
foremost, knocked him down with the stock of my
piece: The other stopped as if fi ighted; but when
I advanced towards him, I perceived he was fit-
ting his bow to shoot me upon which I (hot him
J||d directly. The poor savage who had fled was
^^pemfied at the noise of my piece, though he saw
mi||pmies fallen, that he stood stock still, but
sllnied rather inclined to fly than to come towards
me. However when / gave him signs of encou-
ragement* he came nearer, kneeling 4&^j^0f
ten or twelve steps; on his coming close to me he,
kneeled down again, laid his head upon the ground,
and placed my foot upon it. But there was more
work to do; the man I knocked down came to him-
self, and my savage began to be afraid. I thea
presented my piece at the man, when the poor
fellow, whose life I had saved, made a motion for
my sword, which 1 gave him, and he struck off hjs
enemy*s head at one blow, and in a quarter of an
hour buried both the bodies in the sand, # then
teak kirn away to my cave at the farther part of
D
 
the island* Here I gave him bread, and a bunch
of raisin* to eat and a draught of water, which he
•wang^much; and having refreshed him, / made
signs TO&him to lie down on some rice straw, which
the poor creature did, and soon went to sleep.
He was a well made handsome fellow ab
twenty-six years of age, of an olive coloured^
flexion, with black long hair. He had a fma|mpe
that was not flat, and fine teeth as white as iv^T
After he had slept about half an hour, he waked
ag;ajfl* and came running to me in the inclosure
just by, where I had been milking my goats.
Then falling down again, .he laid his head flat on
$he ground, and set my other soot upon it, as before,
and after this made all possible signs of thankfulness,
subjection^ and submission. I began to speak to
him and to teach him to speak tome; and first
made him know that his name should be Friday%
*-which was the day wherem I saved his life. I
taught hira to fay Master^ and let him know- that
was to^be my name. The next day I gaveliiuv
deaths, at which be-seemed pleased, As we went
 
by the place where we had buried the two men he
pointed exactly at the spot, making signs that he
would dig them up again and eat them ; &t this I
appeared very angry, and beckoned with my hand
to him to come away, which he did immediately.
Having now more courage, and consequently
more curiosity, I took my man Fr'iday with me,
giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and
arrows at his back, which I found he could use very
dextrously, I also gave him to carry one gun, and
taking two for myself, away we marched to the
place where his enemies had been ; when we came
there, my blood ran cold in my veins; the place
was covered with human bones, and the ground
dyed with blood ; great pieces of flesh were lest
here and there half eaten, mangled and scorched.
We saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of
three or four legs and feet; and Friday, by hrs
made me understand, that they brdaght over
four prisoners to feast upon, and that tfiree^Pthem
^ere eaten up; Ifcat he, pointing to himself, was
the fourth, and that they had been conquered, and
taksa ia war. D 2
 
I caused Friday to collect the remains of this
horrid carnage, then to light a fire, and bum them
to asoes. When this was done, we returned to
our castle. The next day we made a little tent on
the out side of my fortification, and at night took
in my ladder, that he might not be able^to get a£
me when asleep. But there was no need of thi$
precaution; for n$Ver man had a more faithful ser-
vant i he had the fame affection for me as a child
has for a father, and I dare fay he would have sa-
crificed his life to save mine. I was greatly de-
lighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing proper to render him useful; espe-
ciajly to speak, and understand me when I spoke;
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; then
he was so merry, so diligent, arid so pleased when
1 could understand him, that he was a very agreea-
ble companion.
After we had been two or three days returned
to the castle, / thought, that in order to bring him
off from the relsfn of human'filth, / ought to
let him taste other flesh* so/ took him ouc, with
me one morning to the woods, in order to take a
kid from my herd; but as we were going, we (aw
a (he goat lying in the shade, and two young kids
fitting by her 5 when makin^ si^ns to Friday not
to stir, I shot one of the kids. Poor Friday, who
at a distance saw me kill the savage enemy, but did
not see how it was done, trembled & looked so a-
rna^ed, that I thought he would have sunk down:
he did not see the kid I had shot, but ripped up his
Waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; and as 1
found presently, thought 1 was resolved to kt4!furn;
for he came and kneeled down to me, and embraC*
ing my knees, seemed to entreat me not to kill him.
But taking him by the hand, I laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid I had killed, beckoned to himy
to run and fetch it, which he did, and while he was
wondering and looking to fee how it was killed,
I loaded my gun, ar d soon after seeing a parrot sit
upon a tree, shewed it to him, and made him to un-
derstand that I would kill it; accordingly I fireclj
and immediately he saw it fall; he looked friihten*
td a^ain, aud I believe if I would have let himj
would have worshipped bfoth me and my gun; as
for the gun itself he would not so much as touch it
for several days after; but would talk to it when
he was by himself, which I afterwards understood
was to desire it not to kill hirru
Having brought home the kid, I cut it out, and
toiling some of the flesh, it made very good
broth: after I had eat some, I gave it to Friday^
who seemed glad $f it, and liked it very well. Hav-
ing thus fed him wUb boiled meat, and broth, I
feasted him the next day with a piece of roasted kid,
hanging it before the fire with a string. This Fri-
day admired very much, and made me at last un-
de^and that he would ijever eat man's flesh any
SBjjre, which I was very glad to hear.
"?4"he next day I set him to beat out some corn,
arid sift it; soon after I let him see me make my
tread, and bake, and in a little time Friday was
able to do all the work for me, as well as I could
do it myself. I now found it necessary to sow z
larger quantity of corn than 1 used to do; and
therefore with Friday's alfistance enlarged i»y
fence. In short this was the pleafanttst year I had
led in the island; for as my man began to talk
pretty well, I had some use for n y tongue again>
and besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had k
singular satisfaction in his honesty and affection,
which appeared more and more every day, so that
I began really to love him.
I soon learned by Friday's discourse, thzthehad
formerly been among the savages, who used to
come on (bore on the farther,part of the island, on
the fame man-eating occasions, which he was now
brought for; and some time after, I took him to
that side which was the fame I formerly mention-
ed; he knew the place, and told me he was there
once when they eat up twenty men, two women
and a child; but not knowing how- to tell twenty
he numbered them by laying fo.i&any stones in a
row, and pointing; to me to tell them over*
I did not fail to instruct this poor creature al
well as I was able, in the principles of religion*
and he listened to me with great attention. On&
day when I had been talking to hrm on this subject
D 4
he told me, that if our God that we pray to could
hear us beyond the fun, he was a greater God than
'their BenGtnukee, who lived hut a little way off,
and yet could not hear till the Oowoiakee, or priests,
went up to the great mountains, where he dwelt,
to speak to him. In stiort by instructing hln, I in-
formed myself, for by seriously considering what I
had never tho't of before, I most strongly impressed
,Z sense of my duty upon my own mind, & at length
made him a better christian than I had been myself.
I then told him my story, and let him into the my-
stery of gunpowder and bullets, and taught him
how to shoot; I ^ave him a knife, which he was
'wonderfully delighted with; also made him a belt
With a frog hanging to it, and instead of a hanger3
gave him a hatchet.
described to him the countries of Europe; and
particular!y England; how we lived \ how we
worshiped God; and how we traded in ships to all
the parts of the world; I gave him an account of
the wreck I had been on board of, and shewed him
the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we es-
caped, and which / could not stir with al! my
strength then, but was now almost fallen to pieces.
Upon feeing this boat Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing j when asking what he was
thinking of, he at last (aid, Me see such boat like
came to place at my natio7i» We save ivhite mans
from drovjn. 1 then asked him if there were any
white mans, as he called them, in the boat? Tes7
he said, the boat full of white #t&ns; I asked hira
how many? He told me upon his fingers, seven-
teen. I then asked h; what became of them ; and
he replied, The? ttvey they dwell at my nation y I
presently ipagined that these might be the men be*
longing-so the ship that was cast away in the sight
of r^y ifland, who, after the ship had struck on a
r6ck, had perhaps saved themselves in their boat*
I then enquired what was become of thems and he
assured me that his countrymen gave them victu-
als. I asked him why they did not kill them and
eat them? He said, Nor they make brother with
them. They eat no mans but when they make
0,5
war fight: that i*, they never eat any man but such
as are taken in battle.
A considerable time after this, being on the top
of the hill on the side of the island, from whence I
bad discovered land, Friday locked very earnestly
towards it, and in a kind of surprise fell a jumping
an^'ftehvjjng » crying 0 joys Q glad / there see
fity Cbimtrs i*ere my nation! 1 observed that
hi* eyes sparkled, ^ ^ countenance discovered
an extraordinary sense of>>surc: T ThlS, obseJ7f"
tion gave me some uneasiness 1 T T M?
apprehending/that if he codd get ^ckt°T hlS
Bation, he would not only forget his
his obligations to me, and would perhaps
back with an hundred or two of his countryrrV?^
and ma Joe a feast upon me, at which he might fca
as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies
when th*y were taken in war. But I wronged the
poor h finest creature very much. However, w^ile
^Jealousy lasted, I every day endeavored to pene-
$0te into his thoughts.
i One day> walking up the km hill, I called- to
kirn, and said, Friday, do not you wish yourself
in your own count-\? Yes, said he, I be much a
glad to be at my own nation. What would you do
there? said 1: would you eat man*s flesli again,
and be a savage as you were before? He looked
full of concern, and shaking his head, said, No,no9
Friday tell them to live geed: tell them to pray
God; tell them to eat corn bread, cattle jUJb, milk^
no eat men's Jlejh again. Why then, laid 1 to him,
they would kill vou. He looked grave, and said,
No, they not kill me, they ivilling love leafn. He
meant they would be willing to learn. I then told
him, that I would make a canoe for him: and he
replied, that he would go ifl would go with him*
I go! said I, why they will eat me if I go there*
<tVo, no, said he, me make them no eat you, me
make them much love you. He then told me bow
kind they were to the seventeen white or bearded
men, as he called them, who came ashore in distress*
From this rime I had a mind to venture over,
and fee if I could po^bly join those bearded mer^
not doubting but that we might find some means
D 6
of escaping from thence. I therefore went with
Friday cothe other side cf the island, and shewed
him my boat, .when he getting: into it, managed it
with the greatest dexterity: but he thinking it too
little, I afterwards shewed him the first boat I had
made; but which I could not get into the water 5
he said that was big enough ; but as it had lain two
or three and twenty years, the (m had split \u I
therefore told him that we would go and make one
as big as that, and he should go in it. At this he
looked uneasy, and I asked what was the matter
with him. To which he returned, Why you angry
Mad with Friday ? what me done? I told him I
&a$#ot a'ftVry with hi it. No angry! no angry J
fays he, why then send Friday hams to my natien?
, iWhy, said I, Friday, did you not fay you wished
you were there? Yes, yes, fays hr, wijh be bttib
there, nowijh Friday there nomajler there* I zo
there, Friday! f?id I: what should 1 do there?
Tou do great deal much good, fays he, hastily, you
teach vile mam be goody sober, hzme mans, you tell
ibcm know Qod^pray Gody and live new life* Alas,
Friday^ said I, thou knowest not what thou sayest;
Ian ^ut an ignorant man myself. Yes, ye$> said
he, you teach me good, you teach them good. No,
no, Friday, said I, you (hall go without me, and
leave me here to live by myself, as I dies before.
He looked confused, and running to a hatchet tocSt
it up hastily, and gave it me. What mull I do
with this? said I Tru take kill Friday, said he*.
What must I kill you for ? said I again. He Re-
turns very quick. JVhat ysu fend Friday awaf
for P take kill Friday no fend Friday away* This
he spoke with such earnestness, that I saw thb tears
stand in his eyes.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse
he had a settled affection.to me, and that nothing
should part him from me: sol sound that his desire
to return to his country, was found on his affect!*
ons to the people, aud his V'pes of my doing; them
good. However, as I had a strong inclination to
make my escape, we made a lar^e canoe, and hav-
ing com pleated i% set up a mast a nd sail.
i was now entered into the 27th year ofaajncap*.
tiv!ty> and intended soon to set sail, when one morn-
ing I bid Friday go to the sea shore to see if he
could find a turtle; but be had not long been gone,
when he came running back like one that felt i.ot
£he ground on which he tred, and before I nad rime
to speak cried O Master! O Master! 0sorrow!
Q bad / What's the matter, Friday? laid L O
yonder there, said he one, two, three! Well, Fri-
day, said I, do not be frighted: He was however,
terribly scared; imagining that they were come to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat
him. I asked him, Whether if I resolved to de-
fend him, he wpuld Hand by me, and do as I bid
him», He said. Me die, when you hid die, mister*
I-fetched hij^.ajjpod dram cf tun, and made him
take two fowling puces, and loaded four muskets
with five small bullets each, and each of my two
pistols with a brace of bullets. I hung my great
&yord naked by rr<y fide, & trave Friday his hatchet.
I then took n y persptclive glass ai d went up to
.the side of the hill, v/hen I saw 2J savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes. They were landed at
a small distance where th shore was low, and where
a thick wood ca ne almost clafi dow 1 to the sea;
and I was so filled with indignation, that I was re-
solved to kill them all. I gave Friday one pistol
to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his
shoulder; and t >ok one pist>i and the other three"
guns myself; and having put a small bord? of rum
in my pocket, I marched out, ordered Friday to
keep close behind me, to be silent, and do as I bii
him. I then fetched a compass of near a mile to ^
come near them, and in this march I recollected^
that though they were going to offend the Almigh-
ty by their bloody feast, I had no right to make
myself an instrument of his vengeance. This
thought allayed my heat and I resolved to be no
more than a spectator of their inhuman banquet.
With this resolution I entered the wood, aritf
yvi th the u tmost precaution marched with Friiiry
eiojf? a* rnv tide ; we came near them,: when shew*-
ink'fir i^ci]! a great tree, L bid him softly bring me
word whax- t«1by w£^e doing j he did so aud coming
bail i^aae4iat?iy> told me that they wereast about
the fire, eating the fkfli of one of their prisoncrs5
and that a bearded n an lay bound upon the sand,
whom he said they would kill next. The news
fired my foul, and filled me with horror, and going
to the tree, I plainly law a white man, cloathtd5
Jyiwgon the beech with his hands and feet tied with
flags. I observed another tree, and a little thicket
beyond it much nearer to them, to which I might
go undiscovered. I therefore took a circuit to it,
and came to a little rising ground, where I had a
full view of them at the distance of about eighty
yards. r
x had not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
horrid wretches fat huddled together on the ground,
andthe other tw© were stooping down to untie the
christian in order to murder him. Now! Friday^
do as you fee me do. I laid the muskets down and
took up one and then we both fired. Three were
killed and five wounded* The savages were in a
dreadful consternation, and all who we;e unhurt
jumped.up immediately on their feet; byt knew
pot which way to run. Friday kept his eyes $Q$$
upon me. I threw down roy piece an J took up
another, and we instantly lei fly at them again;
when being loaded v/ith swan (hot, we found only
two drop; but so many were wounded^ that they
ran about screaming 6: bleeding.- We then ruihed
out os the thicket, with each a musket in our hand.
I cut the flags that bound the poor victim,and gave
him a sword and a pistol, whl£h he had no sooner
got, than he slew his murderers. Mean while
Friday firing had killed two, and wounded a third
and afterwards fell upon them w ith his hatchet, Iii
fliort seventeen of them were killed, and sou of
them getting into a canoe, got out to sea.
I resolved to pursue them lest they should return
with a l~rearer force to destroy us, and ran to a ca*
nee, calling to Friday, to follow me; but I wasna
sooner in the canoe than I found another poor crea*
turelie there alive bound hand and foot; I irnriie*
diately cut the twisted flag?, and seeing that he had
been bound so tight that he was almost dead, I gave
him a dram, and ordered Friday to tell him of his
4fHYerance; J?ut when the poor fellow looked in
his face, and heard him speak, it would have mov-
ed any one to tears,to have Teen how he kissed, em-
braced, hugged him, cried, danced, funs:, and then
cried again. It was some time before I could
make him tell me what was the matter; but when
he came a little to himself, he said it was his own
dear father. He tlr^en fat down by him, held the
old man's head close to his bosom, and chafed his
arms and ancles, which were stiff wnh binding.
After some time I called him, and he came jump-
ing and laughing, and pleased to the highest ex-
treme; 1 gave him a cake of bread for his. father,
with a handful of raisins, and a dram for himself;
but he carried all to his father, and presently ran
a#ay so swiftly, that he was in an instant out of
(bht, and tho* I called after him he never looked
bad': hut in a quarter of an hour I saw him return
with a jug of fresti water, which he gave the ord
man, who was ready to die with thirst. This
water was a refreshment to us all, especially to the
Spaniards who notwithstandi? g his having exerted
himself in the fight, was now unable to stand, his
legs Were so swelled. At my desire, Friday carried
him into the canoe, and placing him by his father
then launching off, paddled them along the fhorej
till he brought them near my castle5 while /walk-
ed thither.
As soon as I had secured my tw*o weak rescued^ ,
prisoners, and given them shelter in a kind ofhut X
set up for them, I ordered Friday to take a yeart^g?!
goat outof my stock, and having killed it, I boife^
a part of it, and made some broth; and in a sew days v
after they were perfectly recovered. My istand was
now peopled, and I thought myself a ktn£, richm -
subjects: but what was extraordinary, they all owed
their lives to me and were ready to lay them down"
in my service. The Spaniards who had expressed-
the utmost gratitude for his deliverance, 5,gave me
an account of the shipwreck, & the situation ofhi4
companions; and it was resolved that Fri<H#f$
father arid the Spaniards fliouid go fn the hoat to
ar^fetdithem over; but the necessity'if increas-
ing>om fbcjc of corn before this w£s ddne^ made
m|i&a|lt for toc months 5 'we all joined in ^laut*\
ing and fencing> and our next harvest being got in,
they set out in one of the canoes*
About eight days after they were gone, Friday
Wakened me one morning, by crying out Master
they are come. I dressed and hasted to the top of
the hill, and plainly discovered an Englijh {hip ly-
ing at anchor. At first 1 felt in my mind a tumult
of joy, which was soon turned into fear; for tho*
1 knew them to be my countrymen? I had reason
to dread them as enemies. Instead of going to-
wards them as I should have done, had it not been
for these alarming doubts, I stayed where I was5
and was soon convinced that to my suspicions I
owed my safety.
They ran the boat ashore on the beach, and ele-
ven men landed, three of them unarmed, who by
their gestures seemed to be prisoners; and one of
them I could perceive using the most pastionate
gestures of entreaty, affliction and despair, while
the two others, though their grief seemed le&.ex-
travagant, appeared pleading for mercy. At this
sight 1 was stiffened with horr*r| and Friday o4U&
out fa^tifg in his broken En^lisli, 0 master ! you see
EnglHhfrfens eat prisoners as to ell as savage mans.
Nono, said I, Friday^ lam afraid they will mur-
der them: but you may be sure they won't eat them.
At this instant I saw a villain lift up his arm to kill
one of the prisoners; but he did not strike him. I
wished now for the Spaniard and Friday** father,
who was gone with him. While they*had been
parlying with their prisoners, the water had ebbed
away from their boat, leaving her aground; and I
heard one of them fay to another, who was going;
to it, Why let her alone Jack^ it will be afloat
next tide; this confirmed to me that they were my
countrymen. I knew now to my uneasiness* tbkt
they would have ten hours to ramble about
island; I therefore designed to attack them as soon
as it was dark j but a few hours after* as 'I ^sew-
none of them rambling about, I imagined theyjfaere
asleep f all but the three distressed men wKo-fet u'rw
dertfjSshelter of a tree, but a little way from* me.
To them I went with my man Isfiday^ ap^saidf i<$
theealn Spanijhi What are^ouy QfmllKXien'?
they started at the noise > but prepared to fly* 1
then said in EngliJ}), Gentlemen, perhaps you may
have a friend near you, whom you would little ex-
pect. He must be sent directly from heaven, said
one os them bowing ; for our condition is past the
help of man. .All help is from heaven, Sir, I re-
plied 5 I fee you are in distress, and am willing to
serve you. The poor man with a gush of tears,
answered. Ami talking to a man or tin angel?
A man, an Englishman, i returned; ready to- alHst
and save you: Tell me your case. I v/as com-
mander of that (hip, he replied; my men have mu-
tinied against me, and if they do not murder rr.e5
they intend to leave me, and these two gentlemen
Sfflipre in this desolate place, they are but in that
t^feket, and / tremble for fear they stialLhave seen
youj and heard us speak > if they have thuy will
murder us all, I asked what arms they had got*
and finding they ha<i got no more than one piece of
fire arms among them, I told him it was easy to
kill them all while they were afleep, or to take
them prisoners. He replied^ chat there were two
incorrigible villains among them to whom it would
not be safe to shew mercy. I then gave each of
them a musket, and advised them to fire amongf
them at once; but he was cautious of shedding
blood. In the midst of our discourse some of them
waked and two walked from the rest. The captain
said he would gladly spare them. Now, said I, if
the rest escape you, it is your fault. Animated
with this they went to the sailors, and the cap-
tain reserving his own piece, the two men shot
one of the villains dead, and wounded the other.
He who was wounded cried out for help, when the
captain knocked him down with the stock of his
musket. There were three more in company, one
of whom was wounded. They begged for mjdttk
?ncl I coming up? gave orders for sparingllppF
lives, on condition of their being bound hand and
foot while they stayed in the island.
While we were binding them, Friday and the?
captain's mate secured the boat and brought away
thsoars and fail. The noise of our guns .brought
three more straggling men to us, and submitting-
to be bound, our victory was complete. We then
consulted together how to recover the strip, there
being still twentv six men on board. We knocked
a great hole in the bottom of the boat that thry
irn^ht not carry her away; and while we were
doing it, we heard the ship fire a iiun, as a fig al
for the boat to come on board. A litrie after ano-
ther boat, with ten men and fire arms, approached
the shore. We had a full view of them as they
came; the captain told me three of them were
peaceable fellows ; but the rest were desperate
wretches* The most suspicious of our prisoners,
we sent bound into the cave. Two we kept with
us still pinioned, and the mate and sailor we ventur-
otfikto our service. We were now seven men
w^plrmed, and thought ourselves a match for those
that were coming.
As soon as they got to the place where the other
boat lay, they ran the boat on the beach, and came
ail on shore. They hallooed aloud for their can>
panion^j seemed in the utmost astonishment at the
'^ftme^on of the boat, and immediately returned
 
and rowed from shore j but quickly coming back
again, seven of them landed, leaving three in the
boat, who kept at a distance from the shore. We
now lost all hopes of recovering the ship ; for we
iimagined if we seized the.seven men the rest would
return to the ihip, and flie would set fail * however*
we had no remedy but patience,
Those who came on {Lore kept close together^
marching up to the little hill, under which nay
habitation Jay* When at the top they shouted &
hallooed: but did not care to venture far from,
the shore, and quickly returned back again* I then
ordered Friday and the mate to go to a rising
ground, and shout as loud as they could. ~~"
heard the noise, and ran towards it, till the\
to the creek they then called the hoat.xo^f
over. This was what I cxpect^Sf* Tfiey having
crofled the creek, left two men in the boat, takiftg
the other with them. We left Friday and the
mate to pursue theirbufmefs in decoying the felt-ows*
up into the woods, by {touting and haUooingy^hÆgL
^A'roriscd the two men they had left, b5^3j$w
"* E." .
 
in the boat, and the other asleep on the fhore\
This last starting up at our approach, the captain
knocked him down, and called to him in the boat
to yield, of he was a dead man* This he did and
heartily joined us; he being one of those who
bad been forced through fear to join the mutiny.
Several hours after Friday came back, and told
me that they had heartily tired the men, by halloo-
ing to them from different places ; for he heard them
complain they were so tired they could not walk.
At length we saw them all go to the boat, which
was aground in the creek, the tide having ebbed
"Out. When they saw the twomei? gone, they call*
ecU-o one another in the moil lamentable manner^
f^Jfe tn*e? were &ot *nto an inchanted island, that
(PM^either inhabited,-and they should be murder*
ed, or that there were devils in it and fhey should
be devoured. They hallooed arid tailed thefr^om*
•rades by their rfames^ and then fan about r'iagjyng
their hands like men in despair; I drew myarnbuJV
Cade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain
to ercep upon their tends and feet, that they t&igib
 
not be seen, and to get very hear them before they
fired ; but one of the principal ring-leaders of the
mutiny, with two of the crew came towards us,
and the captain was so eager at having him in my
power, that he let fly, killed him and another on
the spot; the third ran for it. I immediately ad-
vanced with my whole army, when the man we
took out of the boat, by my order, called to one of
them by his name. Tom Smith. The fellow an-
swered. Who is that, Robinson! ay, ay, for
God's fake Tom throw down your arms and yield,
br you are all dead men this moment. Yield ! who
must we yield to ?/ays Smith. Where are trre^"
Here they are, fays he j here's our captam^withf
fifty men with him: the boatswain and WtiMfry
arc killed and I am a prisoner. Will they -|pp|.u$
quarter? fays Smith, The captain then called
out. You know my voice, if you lay do\yn youi*
asms and submit, you (hall all have your lives1 fet
Atkins, Upon which Will Aiktits Sailed o&t
for God's fake, captain, spare my lifev trie reft are
%$ bad as I, which was not true for l^e had used the
E 2
captain very ill, at the beginning of the mutmyr
The captain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion & trust to the governor's mercy. Upon
which they all submitted, & the captain expostula-
ted with them on their villainous treatment of him.
He told them, that the governor was an Englijh-
man9 who intended fending them all to England,
except Jtkinsy -.who was; to be hanged the next
morning, and he bid him prepare for death.
- It was now determined to seize the ship, and the
\ Captain chose-five of those he liked best to assist him,
C%t|jj£ I keptifefe '.rest a| hostages for their fidelity,
A^^jthen ftoppM the breach irtthe broken boat, &
fcaVing manned' them both, the captain went to the
ffuflijbom midnight, got pn board, and being faith-
jfuf^(reconded, they knocked down the second mate,
jand.carpenter with the butt end of their mulcts*
;'and foo^^ercame all the rest. Killed ^Jft^^l;
.captairi, & fired /e.vpral guns to g i ve m^Slfidb
pf their success, Wnlth silled me wlfh'I^H^m^
ffet the captain called to me from the |og^^^'
^r'ai^d'l-going to- him he embraced pie
 
 
 
ftafy) telling me the ship and cargo were all mine*
When I sew my deliverance thus put into my
hands, I was ready to sink with surprile; I was not
able to answer one word, but a sioedof tears bro't
me to n;\sjls, and a little while after I recovered
mv spee ch. I then in my turn embraced him as
my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. Wheil
we had talked a while, he called aloud to the b6§$
and bid them bring the governor's present as
and indeed it was a present fit for a governors
rrk>n£ other things there was a very good sinj^
cloath, with two fiiirts and a neckcloth. I drf
mysdfin them, and then appeared as governor j
fore the prisoners. 1 asked them what they had \
in their defence, telling them I had power to cfcel
them^ere. They pleaded the captain's i
<$Fn3srcy, and then told them that I irifeertÆ
"~!nger in the ship, with all my mfcn^i
^ if they went could only go as prifqsi
jjr^g however, that they might, if tfe^pS
'-^the island. This they'gladly ac^^ifi
^ed to gd on board the next day, &e^£taat
 
 
returning to the ship got every thing ready for my
rec ptioiu
When he was ^one, I talked to the men, told
them my flory, and how I managed all my house-
hold business; left a letter for the fifteen Spani-
ards, ar.d made them promise to treat them in
common with themselves. The next day I went
©n board the ship taking Friday with me; but did
.'iKSt weioh that evening, ano before we got off,
'rhæo of the men swam to us from the shore, desir-
ictg to be taken in, or they would be murdered, to
wiiich we agreed, and they afterwards became ho-
©eft fellows. On the other hand, two men in the
fhi|k, fearing to be calkd to an account in Eng*>
lan&y took the pinnace, and joined their old com-
rades on siiore. Thus I left the ifi^nd, after being
#n it twenty-eight years.
On my arrival 4o England, I was as perfect *
ftranger as if i had never been known there % V*iy
faithful stewart, the widow, was become poor^»h-jF
father and mother were dead; but I had two fffte%
ind tw® &f *he children of ©ae ot my brothers -i^grf
living. The merchant concerned in the ship I had
saved, heard the captain's story, invired me to an
entertainment, and made me a presences near tool.
I then went to Lisbon^ to see after my effects in
the Brajih) and found the generous captain^ who
had been so much my friend, still alive, and he put
me in the way of recovering the produce of my
plantations. And a fevr months after there arrived
Clips in the Tagus, with effects for my use, to the
amount of 50,000!. beside? iocol. a year, which
I expected to receive annually from my plantations*
Having converted my money into bills o'f ex-
change, I resolved to travel to England by landv
over the Pyrenitn mountains. Poor Friday was
terribly frighteig^d when he saw mountains coy sr*
ed with snow, and felt cold weather. As we were
travelling, our guide was assaulted by two wolves j
wnert^instead of drawing his pistol, he called out
to us* and I bid Friday hasten to fee what was the
matter j when like a bold fellow he rode up and
feat the wolf which had fastened on the man and
^ke fther which had fastened on the horse led. At
the report of his pistol we hastened up, and saw ia"
what manner he had delivered our guide \ when on
a sudden a monstrous bear rushed out of a wood,
which surprised us all, except Friday, who with
joy and courage in his countenance, cried 0! Os
O! ma ft er, if you give me Uave^ tne Jhakee U hand
ivith him, me makee you good laugh. You fool,
said f, he'll eat you up* Eatee mt up, me makee
you much laugh. The bear walked softly on, till
Friday coming pretty near, calls as if the bear
could understand him, Harkee, harkee, me jfeakee
wit you, and then slung a great stone at his head.
As soon .as he felt the stone, he came after him with
monstrous long strides. Away ran Friday towards
'His as if he wanted help. Is this jour making us
laugh, you dog? said I in a paf!ion} mount your
faotfr, that we may shoot the creature... Jfj&ot$
ho Jboot, said he, you get much laugh, ab^tfjing-
down his gun he climbed up a tree. r£f^,btar:
stopped to smell at the gun, and climb.edi-^tlflir;
after him, when Friday getting to the smafpl^K^J
a large branch, and the bearttAhc midtdk ;6l?^ffi§
 
fell to shaking the bough, crying, Now you see mt?
teachee the bear dance. The creature turned t»
see which way he should go back, and Friday says,
What you come ns farther, pray you come farther*
Ton no come farther^ me go-* You no come to me?
me come to you. Then bending the bow down be
slipped off of it, and taking up his gun stood ftitt.
The bear finding his enemy gone, came with th$
binder-end foremost down the tree: when Friday
clapping the muizle of his gun to his ear, shot him
dead. Then turning to us he cried, So me kilt
hear in my country* So you kill them, said I, you
rogue, why you have no guns. said- be,- Ira--;
gun, but great much long sirrews. During the-t€0/
of this journey we were terribly pestered by th£
wolves, of which we killed seventy. I however
arrived safe at leaver, with all my wealth abou£
r^^wien i placed the good widow who had beeri*
. ^yReward, in easy circumstances.
J;„-.§i>mc time after I married, and not knowing
/J&xæia live without employment, retired into the
^jj^try to a little farm; but in the middle eft&&'
 
felicity my ^'ife died^ leaving me three children*
By the loss of my sage counsellor, 1 became like a
ihip without a pilot that could only sail before the
-wind. One of my brother's children I had brought:
tip to sea, and had given i)im a (hip. He was going
to Chinas and came ene morning to astc me ;f I
•would go: with him to fee my beloved ifland. I
hzd had such a romantic'scheme for some time in
my tbot?^hts< and therefore readily closed with his
proposal. Having made my will5 and settled my
<eftate upon my children, we set sail, taking witk
jne some servants, two carpenters,a smith, and an
i^geriibus fellow whom I called my Jack-of-all-
trades; with a considerable quantity -of all kinds of
ieceifaries, for the use of my subjects on the istand.'
** "In this voyage we took on board the passengers
and crew oia jfhtp, consumed by fire, and set them
9n shorezK'Newfoundlani^ and soon after relieved
Another ship,'" where all on board were perishing
$br xmnt bf -provifions. Onboard this last were,
$hr$e passengers and an old lady, her son,and a maid
who were so neglected by the hungry £ai~
lofty that they were barely alive when we meet
them; and the old lady died that night. The youth
and the maid went with us to my island, as aid a
young priest whom we took out of the other ship.
As soon as we came; in sight, of it9 I called t«*
Fr/Vtfv, and asked him if he knew where.he was3
vi hen clapping his hands he cried, Oyes^ Others
and danced and capered like a.mad fellow. Now
Friday, said I, we (hall see your father ; at whic&
he looked very dejected, and with his tears running
dawn his face, said, iVa, 82, m fee him more^ n<t
sver more fa again* He Ung ug& diiy long ag$*
tin much old man* <
When we went oniaore9 at the tide of the floods
the first man I saw was the Spaniard) whose life %
Jud saved. I had ordered that no one should land
but myself 5 however, there was no keeping Fri*
4ay pn board, for he saw his fajther, and he flew
like an arrow out of a bow. If there was the Jams
affection in our part of the world* we ihould have
iio need of the fifth commandment. • ,.-;y
The Spaniard i menpontd eam« towarfl t^
boat, carrying a flag of true, and he did not know
me till I spoke to him in Portuguese. When giv-
ing the musket to the man that was with hin>, he
threw his arms abroad to embrace me, faying he
was inexcusable in not knowing his good an^el Sz
deliverer. I went with him to my old habitation,
which was made far stronger than when I left it.
When I enquired the reason of this, he told me
the three barbarians, not contented with being
moderately their masters, wanted to be their mur-
derers, and they had been obliged to disarm them.
The only just thing the rogues did, was to give
them the letter, and paper of directions I left for
them. The Spaniards who were brought over by
^Friday's father, worked for them, while they r a en-
siled about the island catching tortoises, & shooting
parrots. With this they were contented, and they
went on pretty well, but the three brutes ivonld
^ot let their two countrymen, who afterwards
fame on shore, live with them; but they being in-
dustrious fellows, built themselves two little huts
$t a distance, cultivated fomejandy and had a Httl^
thriving farm, when the unnatural rascals told them
that the illan8 was theirs by the eift of the gover-
nor, and that they should not build upon their land,
without paying them rent. The two honest men,
as I call them for distinction, believing they jested^
Cold chem they should get a scrivener to draw up
the writing, but the villains answered, that they
were not in jest, and immediately set fire to one of
their huts; blows ensued, in which the two got
the better of the three; however the rascals, who
skill ioved to do mischief, destroyed their corn oi*
the ground, and tore up their plantations. Th$
Spaniards reproved them for their cruelty to their
countrymen; but the rogues said the island was
theirs, and the others should be their servants*
They the*n treated them also with the utmost-in** -
science, so that the Spaniards were obliged to dis-
arm them; but on promise of better behaviour*
thev let them have their arms again, which they
had not oofLssed a week, when they began to threa*
ten and bully the two Englifimm as before.
About this time a great number of savages of dif*
ferent nations landed, and fought a battle, In whicE
thirty- two were killed upon the spot. Three of
the routed party ran up into the woods, who being
taken prisoners, they made them their slaves.
Their terror of the savage armies made them all
friends for some time, but about two years after*
they were obliged again to disarm those turbulent
Englijhmtn^ who had almost killed one of tht
staves, and .struck at the Spaniard with a hatched
They obliged them now to live in a different
part of the island i and cultivate the earth for them-
selves, when the mad rogues, weary of working,
took the canoe, and went among the savages to get
them servants. The people treated them very
civilly, and in exchange for a knife, a hatchet, and
fix or seven bullets^ gave them eleven men, and
Jive woaier, whom , they had taken prisoners t©
eat; and they were obliged to hurry away, or they
iJvould have compelled them to begin their inhuman
feast.
Before they came to the island, they set eight of
ikeir prisoners at liberty. The Spaniards w#vid
not marry any of the women, but each of th^
gnglijhmen chose one of them for his wife^ and
afterwards became more civilized.
They had now another visit from the {avages;
they kept close while they were in the island 5
but when they saw them embark, had the curiosity
to go to the place where they had been when to
their surprise, they found 3 savages left fast asleep
upon the shore. They could not think of killing
these naked wretches, and did not want servants,
howerer they took them prisoners 5 but unfortu-
nately one of them made his escape, and soon as-
ter, returned with a large body of his countrymen.
This fellow had been kept at one of the huts of ths
honest Englishmen, and these two poar men had but
just time to remove their wires and children, be*
fore they saw their houses in flames* On this the^
retreated, and sent a slave to the Spaniards for
help. They, however5 halted at the entrance of a
thick wood, when two of the savages .running di-
rectly towards them, they climbed intoahigb tree*
^Tfcey now saw three following thettv*o3 & sivemorl
following at a distance. They let the two first pals,
then fired at three; the first they killed, and wound-
ed the second, who was the fugitive prisoner that
had brought all this mischief upon them. The five
behind terrified at the report of the guns, stood
still; hut the yells and screams of their wounded
companion brought them all in a huddle about him.
Both the EngUJhmen now let fiy together, and as
the five fell down, they thought they had killed
them all ; and therefore without charging their
pieces, they descended from the tree, and went bold~
ly to the place where they found four alive, two
of them but very little hurt, and one of them not
at all; but they soon put the wounded man out of
his pain wit! jhe stocks of their mulkets \ and then
bound the unhurt man hand and foot, and left him,,
T hey thew went to the retreat where they had
left their wives, 2nd found that the two first men
had been near the place in search of them. H£rc
seven of the Spaniards came to their assistance*
bringing with them the savage whom they had left
fco'und* Emboldened by this assistant they rc*
solved to go in quest of the other savages. They
discovered that they had attempted to carry off the
dead, and socn after they saw them all embark*
About six months after this they were invaded
by a most formidable fleet, 18 canoes full of sava-
ges, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs and
wooden swords. To oppose this force there were
17 Spaniards^ 5 Englishmen^ old Friday and &
flaves.—To arm these they had 16 mu&et«, 5 pis-
tols 3 fowling pieces, 2fword$jand 3 old haibextSi
To the slaves they gave each a halbert, or a long
staff pointed with iron, and z hatchet, two of the
women would need fight, and had bows and ar-
rows, and each a hatchet, the old Spaniards whoft
life 1 had saved, commanded, and Will Ai-
kins, one of the three daring EngUjhmeny ^jg&m
manded under him* *
The savages came forward like lions, and Atkin s
with five men, being placed behind a thicket with
orders to let the first pass, he suffered about fifty to
go, and then ordered three of the men to fire their
muikets, which were loaded with six orffsreabnH
lets a piece, among the thickest of them. How
many they killed they knew not, but the poor Wret-
ches seemed frighted to the last degree. Then the
©ther three fired, and after them the first three in
less than a minute* Had they now retired, as they
Were ordered, it would have been well j but stay-
ing to charge again, some savages at a distance saw
them, and surrounded them behind, wounded dt~
fans himself, and killed an Englijhman^ a Spant*
(ird, and a gallant Indian stave, who with no other
Weapon but an armed staff and a hatchet, killed five
men,
Atkins was obliged to.retire, as were also the
%paniardsy who had behaved with great ga^laiitry,
killing about fifty of their enemies. Jthins^ tho*
Wounded, would have had the governor march and
Charge them in a body > but the Spaniard replied*
Seignior jfthins^ot them alone till morning, when
they will be stiff with their wounds, and faint with
loss of blood. That's true, Seignior, replied Jfu
kini% but so (hall I too, and that's the reason why
1 weuld jo while'I am warm, feignier dtkin$%
returned the Spaniard, you have behaved gallant*
ly, and done your part, and therefore we will fight
for you. But it being a clear moonlight night
they resolved to fall on thernj eight of them let fiy
among the savage?, and then eight more; loading
and siring as fast as they could Then they* rari
in three parties among them,and did ^reat execu*
tion, killing in the two fights x8o. The rest with
nimble feet got to the sea side, where their canoes
lay; but. they could not embark, for it blew a ter»
rjbk storfn, and the next morning the canoes wer$
driven by the surge of the sea so far upon the feore
that it required infinite labour to get them off. -
Will Atkins now advised the ototiiander to de*
stray their canoes, and they soon mads them unfit
for swimming at sea, this made the poor wretches
quite desperate^ they ran about the island, jpulkd
my plantation at the bower to pieces j t|o& the corn
underfoot, and did ©ur men inestimlStei^iag€|
who were forced to hunt them lik^^ifteiSs,
However when they^ were reduced bj' ^^gSS^f
llsughttr to thirty seven m^umfcerj iley f«!tifil|
 
ted, and the Spaniards gave them food, with all
kind of necessaries, and permitted them to have a
plantation. These people soon became civilized,
for the Spaniards and English went among them;
though the Indians were forbid, on pain of death,
to go to their settlements.
This was the situation of the island at my am-*
val with the addition of twenty little children, for
the women had all been fruitful.' My coming was
a particular relief, because I furnished them with
knives* shovels, pick-axes, and every thing they
could want.
When the Spaniards and Englijb were all as-
sembled, I told them I cam a to establish them
there, and not Vq remove them: but before I de-
livered them the stores X had brought, I asked them
one by one if they could shake hands with, ^cli
Other, and engage in a strict friendship and ..union
of interest, so that there might be no more*misun-
derstanding amongst them. Will Atkins-fad very
frankly, they had met with arHictions enough to
mzkc them all sober* and enemies enough to make
them all friends: that for his part he would liv$
and die with them, and if I desired it, would ask
the Spaniards pardon for thebrutifli things he had
done to them > but the Spaniard said he had beha-
ved so gallantly in fighting against thejr common
enemies, that he merited being trusted, and thcq
most heartily embraced this occasion of assuring
him, that they never Wished to have any separate
interest. Upon these frank declarations of friend*
ship, we made a splendid feast, dining all together.
We had six pieces of beef and four of pork out of
the ship, our punch bowl, and materials to fill it;
ten bottles of claret3 and ten of beer 5 and the §pa~
niards roasted five whole kids, some of which
were sent to our seamen on hoard. At this feaij
we were innocently merry, and then I produced
my cargo, and presented tlie artificers I had bro/f
%ith -1 took on Chore with me the youn|^past
whose mother was^ starved to death, and the{H%§ *
with the Frenit ecclesiastic, we had saved Q$tec&'
the burning ship. This priest, who was a Very
Worthy-man^ talking %g me one day abo^t mylA*""
and, saidj with great good manners, that I ought
to attempt the conversion of my savage subject?,
and to have the women lawfully married to the
ir.cn they lived with. I told him I could not stay
4 for the first, and as to the Iaft> I would speak to
the men about it. He then said in * kind of exta-
cy, If I would give him leave he would stay in the
island to be their instructor, adding, he should be
thankful if he could be the happy instrument of
converting these thirty-seven savages, though he
pever set his foot off the island while he lived.
Some time after this I conversed, with my En*
glijhmen about their wives \ and Will Atkin^ as
spokesman for the rest, said, that if any man would
carry him to England, & make him captain of the
best ship in the navy, he would not go without he
might carry his wife and children with him, and
that he would be married the next day, if there?
was a clergyman upon the island, I then inform-
ed them that the Prench gentleman, was a minister,
and that they should be*married the next morning;
but before this pititt prieA wtuld perform the ce-
remeny, he wanted to persuade the men to con*
vert their wives; but as they did not understand
French* nor he English^ I was their interpreter on
both sides. He told them, that he was afraid they
were but indifferent Christians, and unless they
would promise to teach their wives as well as they
could, he would not marry them. Lord, Sir$ said
tnil Atkins, how should we teach them religion!
we know nothing of it ourselves. If I was to tell
my wife of God and Christ, and Heaven and hell$
and that wicked people went to the Devil, stie
would aslc me where I intended to go? The prieft
said, let him but repenrhtmself, and he'll soon be-
come an excellent preacher to his wife. The feU
low seemed much affected^ and said he would have
some talk with her*
While he wa* eone, the priest mirried th« other
three couple. Will Atkins then came in* and I
began to talk to him, and asked him who was his
father f He answered a better man than I ever fiiall
be, hetwas a clergyman; he would have given me
a good education 5 but like a beast I despised all
instruction. I murdered my poor father; for my
kad behaviour broke his heart. But how comes
this to touch you just now, Will, I replied. Why,
said'he, you set me to teach my wife, and {he has
been preaching such a sermon to me, as I shall ne-
ver forget. I told her God had appointed marrw
age; when she told me I had no God in my coun-
try; and when I laughed at her for faying so, she
said No laugh, Why laugh me! This nothing to.
laugh. If God makee ?rKj, why you no tell me long
$gd. Have you de great God in. your- country, you
no hnovj him? No fay O to him! No do good ting
for him? that no impossible I I replied it was very
true for all that. Why, said flie, he no makee you
g.Q&d live? You fay me he is greats can make mt
kill when he will. Why he no makee kill when
y$u no serve him? He no know* Yes I answer-
ed, he knows and fees all things, and hears us
speak. -What! returned she,, he no hear you Jwear7
curse, speak the great damn! Ye?, yes, he hears
'kail, 1 cried. Where he then the much ee great
sower strong! He never makee never &ngr%
when we do wicked^ then be no good himself or
no great able. Yes, my dear, fays I, he does
sometimes punish in this world, and many are cut
off in their sins, and then go to hell where they are
miserable forever. He no makee you dead! she rer
turned, and you no tell him tank you for all that!
I am an ungrateful dog, that's true, I returned.
1wijh you makee me know God^ she replied, I no
make him angry; I no do bad wicked ting, I'll
pray to God to teach you^ he replied; when she
returned. He give all ting, then he makee me gobd^
if I wijh to be good*, he spare me^ no makee kilhne
when I no be me t&ke, think, believe him to be
great God, me vjill tank him with you my dear.
Atkins said, that he could here forbear no longer j
but prayed with his wife. In a word, the poor
woman, after some conversation with the priest, irt
which I was interpreter, desired of herself to be
baptized, which was done, and flie was afterwards
married; and my Jack-of-all-trades was married
to the woman whom I had saved from starving.
Soorrafter th% having, by my soyeteing autho-
rity, divided the lands amongst them to prevent
quarrelling, I left the island; but I had not been
from it three days, when we discovered a great
number of canoes, which came very near us, on
which we made signs for them to put back, which
they did 3 but discharged about six hundred arrows
at us, and wounded one of our men.
Being unwilling to fire upon them, I ordered
Friday to speak to them, when instantly they dis-
charged another flight of arrows, that killed poor
Friday^ no other man being in their sight. Enrag-
ed at the loss of my old servant, I gave them a broad
side which overset many of their canoes, and the
rest fled so fast that in a little time there was not
one to be seen.
We now steered to the East-Indies^ stayed a few
days at the Cape of Good Hope^ where we took in
fresh* water, and failed to Madagascar ^ where the
people behaved with civility, and traded with our
men; but one night, many of the crew being on
(horCi and I in the boat, which was at anchor very
mar it, we heard them fire their guns, and call
aloud for the assistance of the boat. We soon row-
ed to shore; but our men were in too much haste,
and jumped into the water; for they were purstiei
by three or four hundred of the natives. Seven
of them we took up, one was killed in the begin-
ning of the fray, and one was left behind. I found
that this outrage proceeded from the fellow that
was missing, who endeavoured to be rude to a girl*
that came to fell them milk. I was unwilling t@
go & leave the fellow in the hands of these barbari-
ans, and therefore the next night we went onshore*
We landed without any noise, but Could not find
him we wanted* I was then for going aboard, but
they resolved to seek for their companion in the
Indian town, which was at a little distance; nor
could I dissuade them from this mad exploit. Their,
first design was only plunder! but seeing there
comrade mangled and hung upon a tree, they were
so enraged, that they set fire to the town in three
places. My nephew, who was in the (hip at a
distance, seeing the flames, came with thirteen
men to the boat where I was* He was surprised
to see me and the supercargo in the boat with no
more than two sailors; but however he resolved tq
go after his men, and I went with him. When
we came near the town, we saw three women
stark naked, and after them sixteen or seventeen
men flying in the greatest consternation, pursued
by three of our English butchers. My very foul
shrunk within me, and I verily believe, had our
three English sailors continued pursuing I should
have ordered our men to fire upon therm Some of
the poor flying wretches were miserably burnt.
We soon saw our boatswain, who was one of the
forwardest in these acts of cruelty. He set up a
shout of triumph at seeing me; captain, noble
captain, I am glad you arc come,, cried he, villains,
hell hounds, dogs^ we have sworn to spare none of
them; I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom had
hairs. Barbarous wretch, cried I, what are you
doirig? stand still, or you are a dead man this
minute, Why* fir, said he, if you want a reason for
what we have done, look here: he then shewed
r#e £he poor fellow hanging by one arm, wish his
throat cut. At this sight my nephew, and those
we brought wHh us, were as enraged as those who
had been in the massacre, and went altogether to -
finish their bloody wGrk, leaving with me only the
supercargo, and two other men with whom I walfcr
ed back to the boats, and returned on board, fern!**
ing the pinnaace back to fetch the men, who got
en board in the morning, unhurt, except one of
them being a little scorched, and another having
sprained his ancle.
I was extremely angry with my nephew and all
the men, about this affair; and at last, on my fre-
quently shewing my abhorrence of this massacre,ZS
I always called it, they mutined. I was then on shore
at Bengals and one and all said they would leave
the ship, if ever I set foot in it. My nephew, the
captain, was obliged to comply, but sent me money
and other necessaries.
I tock lodging in the house of an Etiglijh wcu
rnan, where I got acquainted with a merchant; W|
bought a ship, and went a voyage to China± whicS
proved very successful, and made snQtfaertothe
spice islands, with the like good fortune* We
then bought a large veffel $ but this purchase had
like to have cost us our lives; for the people of
whom we had bought her, having had their cap-
tain killed on shore, had ran away with the stiip,
and turned pirates: this we heard in the river
Cambodia\ which obliged us to fly, and were pur-
sued by live of the E fflilndia company's boats,
which we kept off with our guns, and made the
best of our Way to Tonqain^ under the utmost ter-
ror of being seized and hanged as pirates. Our
ship having sprung a leak, we here laid her down
to stop it.
While {he was in this condition, the natives not
seeing our men, came round us in twelve large
boats, supposing it to be a wreck; we were in an
ill posture for fighting, all hands being at work re-
pairing the ship's bottom, and immediately set about
righting the ship: but before we could do it, they
had boarded our long boat t© make prisoners of
feme of our men.
The first they seized was an Englijhman^ wh©
instead of firing his musket he had in his hand, laics
it down in the boat and seizing the fellow by the
ears, he by main force dafihedhis brains out against
the gunnel; while a Dutchman, with the but-end
of the musket, knocked down five of ch*m. In
the mean time a fellow who attended the carpen*
ter with a kettle of boiling pitch, saluted the Pa*
gans with a ladle of the hot stuff, which the car-
penter feeing, cry'd, well done, "Jack, and dipping
a mop into the boiling pitch, sprinkled it profusely
over them, which made them howl most dreadfully;
and another kettle of the same materials gave us
a com pleat victory without firing a gun.
We left this bay the next morning, and sailed to
Nanquin, when to our great joy we sold our vessel
to a merchant of Naan, and afterwards travelled
with a large caravan, through China, Siberia,
Muscovy, and arrived at London on the nth of
January, 1705; having been absent from England
this last time, ten years and nine months. And%
now resolved to harrass myself no more, I am pr««
paring for a longer journey than all those., for I
have lived seventy two years, chequered with in»
finite variety, and have been taught sufficiently the
- value of retirement, and the blessing of ending my
* Jays in peace, and in the tru« worship of my
Almighty Deliverer; .
FINIS*
US*-
