THE
LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
'O F
V
- By DANIEL DE FOE.
Coots'g ÆDititm.
VOL. II.
IIIIELliSHED WITH ENCRAVING*.

Printed for C. COOKK, No. 17,
riTSl-SOITIl-ROWi
.
fa.
/LIFE and ADVENTURES
'•-IH-I1*** OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
VOLUME THE SECOND.
I
AM now to be supposed to be retired into my castle,
aiter my late voyage to the wreck, my srigate laid up,
Mid secured under water as usual, and my condition
restored to what it was besore; I had more wealth
indeed, than I had besore, but was not at ail the richer;
sor I had no more use sor it, than the Indians os Peru
.had besore the Spaniards came thither.
It was one os the nights in the rainy season in March,
the sour-and-twentieth year os my sirst setting soot in
this island os solitariness, I was lving in my bed, or
hammock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, no
distemper, no uneasiness os body, no, nor any uneasi-
ness ot mind more than ordinary, but could by no
means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no, not
a wink all night long, otherwise than as sellows—
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-.
merable crowd os thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughsare os the brain, the memory, in this
night's timei I ran over the whole history os my lise in
miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, to
my coming to this island; and also os that part os my
lise smce I came to this island; in my reslections upon
the state os my case, since I came on shore on this island,
I was comparing the happy posture os my affairs, in
the sirst years os my habitation here, to that course os
aiKiety, sear and care, which I had lived in ever since
I had seen the print os a scot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the ravages had srequented the island even all
the while, and might have been several hundred ot them
at times on ftiore there; but as I had never known it,
and was incapable os any ap;-i\.hcnsions about it, my
satissaction,
4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF
satissaction was persect, though my clanger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger,
as is I had never really been exposed to it; this surnished
my thoughts with many very prositable reslections, and
particularly this one—' How insinitely good that Pro-
'vidence is, which has settled in its government os
* mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and know-
* ledge os things; and though he walks in the midst os
« so many thousand dangers, the sight os which, isdis-
« covered to him, would distract his mind, and sink hi*
'spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the
* events os things hid srom his eyes, and knowing no-
* thing os the dangers which surround him.'
Aster these thoughts had sor some time entertained
me, I came to reslect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in sor so many years in this very island; and
how I1iad walked about in the greatest security, and
with all potsible tranquillity, even when perhaps no-
thing but a brow os an hill, a great tree,- or the casual
approach os night, had been between me and the worst
kind os destruction; viz. that os salling into the hand*
os canibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I did a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour ire, than
I did os a pigeon or a curlieu; I should unjustly slander
mysels, is I should say I was not sincerely thanksul to
my Great Preserver, to whose singular protection I ac-
knowledged, witli great humility, that all these un-
known deliverances were due, and without which
I thculd inevitably have sallen into their mcrcilcs*
hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was sor
some time taken up in considering the nature os these
wretched creatures; I mean the savages; and how it
came to pais in the world, that the Wise Governor os
all things should give up any os his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even bru-
tality itsels, as to devour its own kindi but as this
taded in some (at that time' sruitless) speculations, it
•ccurrai
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5
occurred to me to enquire what part ot' the world these
wretches lived in; how sar off the coast was srom whence
they came; what they ventured so sar srom home sor;
what kind os boats they had; and why I might not
order mysels, and my business so, that I might be as
able to go over thither, as they were to come to
me.
I never so much as troubled mysels to consider, what
I should do with mysels when I came thither; what
mould become os me, is I sell into the hands os the sa-
vages; or how I should escape srom them, is they at-
tempted me;. no, nor so much as how it was possible
sor me to reach the coast, and not be attempted by some
or other os them, without any possibility os delivering
mysels; and is I should not sall into their hands, what
I mould do sor provision, or whither I should bend my
course; none os these thoughts, I say, so much as came
in my way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the
notion os my passing over in my boat to the main landi
I looked back upon my present condition, as the most
miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able
to throw mysels into any thing but death that could be
called worse; that is I reached the shore os the main, I
might, perhaps, meet with relies; or I might coast
along, as I did on the shore os Asrica, till I came to
some inhabited country, and where I might sind some
relies, and aster all, perhaps, I might sall in with some
Christian ship that might take me in; and is the worst
came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an
end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this
was the sruit os a disturbed mind, an unpatient temper,
made, as it were, desperate by die long continuance os
my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had been on board os, and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed sor, viz.
somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
srom, os the place where I was, and os the probable
means os my deliverancei I say, I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts. All my calm os mind in my resig-
Vol. II. B nation
nation to Providence, and waiting the issue os the dis-
positions os Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I
had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to any
thing, but the project os a voyage to the main, which
came \ipon me with such sorce, and such an impetuo-
sity os desire, that it was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts sor two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a scrment, and my pulse beat as high as is I had
been in a sever, merely with the extraordinary servour
os my mind about it; nature, as is I had been satigued
and exhausted with the very thought os it, threw me
into a sbund steep i one would have thought I should
have dreamed os it; but I did not, nor os any thing
relating to it; but I dreamed, that as I was going out
in'the morning, as usual, srom my castle, I saw upon
the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming to
land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him;
when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to
kill jumped away, and ran sor his lise; then I thought
in mv steep, that he came running into my little thick
grove, besore my sortisication, to hide himsels; and
that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the
others sought him that way, shewed mysels to him, and
smiling upon him, encouraged himi that he kneeled
down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon
which I shewed my ladder, made him go up it, and car-
ried him into my cave, and he became my servant; and
that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to mysels—
'Now I may certainly venture to the main land; sor
'this sellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
'what to do, and whither to go sor provisions, and
'whither not to go sor scar os being devoured; what
'places to venture into, and what to escape.' I waked
with this thought, and was under such inexpressible im-
pressions os joy at the prospect os my escape in my
dream, that the disappointments which I sclt upon
coining to mysels, and sinding it was no more than a
dream,
dream, were equally extravagant the other-way, and
threw me into a very great dejection ot spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go about an attempt sor an escape, was,
is possible, to get a savage in my possession; and, is
possible, it should be one os their prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill; but these thoughts still were attended with this
dissiculty, that it was impossible to effect this, without
attacking a whole boc'y os them, and killing them
all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt,
and might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had
greatly scrupled the lawsulness os it to me, and my heait
trembled at the thoughts os shedding Ib much blood,
though it was. sor my deliverancei I need not repeat
the arguments which occurred to me against this, they
being the same mentioned besore; but though I had
other reasons to osser now, viz. that those men were
enemies to my lise, aud would devour me, is they could;
that it was sels-preservation, in the highest degree, to
destroy them, and that I should be acting in my
own desence, as much as is they were actually
assaulting me, and the like; I say, though thele things
argued sor it, yet the thoughts os studding human
blood sor my deliverance were very terrible to me,and shch
as I could by no means reconcile mysels to a great while.
However, at last, aster many secret disputes with
mysels, and aster gieat perplexities about it (sor all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my
head a long time) the eager prevailing desire os deli-
verance at length mastered all the rest; I resolved, is
possible, to get one os these savages into my hands,
cost what it would i my nexi thing then was to contrive
how to do it; and this, indeed, was very dissicult to re-
solve on; but as I could pitch upon no probable means
sor it, so I resolved to put mysels upon the watch, to
see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to
the event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let them be what they might.
B a With
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set mysels
upon the scout, as osten as possible, and indeed so osten
till I was heartily tired os it; sor it was above a year
and a hals that I waited, and sor a great part os that
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west
corner os the island, almost every day, to look sor ca-
noes, but none appearedi this was very discouraging,
and began to trouble me much; though I cannot say
that it did in this case as it had done some time besore
that, viz. wear off the edge os my desire to execute my
designs ; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was sor iti in a word, I was not at sirst
more caresul to avoid being seen by these savages, than
I was now eager to attack them.
Besides, I sancied mysels able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, is I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do what ever I mould
direct them, and to prevent their being able, at
any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great while
that I pleased mysels with this affair, but nothing still
presented; all my sancies and schemes came to nothing,
sor no savages came near me sor a great while.
About a year and a hals aster I had entertained these
notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, sor want os an occasion to put
them into execution, I was surprized one morning early,
with seeing no less than sive canoes all on more together,
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out os my sighti the number of them
broke ail my measures; tor seeing so many, and know-
ing that they always came sour, or six, or sometime*
more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think os it, or
how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed,
and discomsited; however, I put mysels into all the
same postures sor'an attack that I had sormerly pro-
vided, and was just ready sor action, is any thing had
presentedi having waited a good while, listening to
hear is they made any noise, at length being very im-
patient,
patient, I set my guns at the foot os my ladder, and
clambered up to the top os the hill by two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill; so that they could not perceive me
by any meansi here I observed, by the help os my
perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number, that they had a sire kindled, and that they
had had mci: dressed; how they cooked it, that I know
not, or what it was; but they were all dancing, in I
know not how many barbarous gestures and sigures,
their own wny, round the sire.
When I was, thus looking on them, I perceived by
my perspective two miserable wretches dragged srom
the boats, where it seems, they were laid by, and were
now brought out sor the slaughter. I perceived one os
them immediately sall, being knocked down, I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, sor that was their way;
and two or three others were at werk immediately, cut-
ting him open sor their cookery, while the other victim
was lest standing by himsels, fill they should be ready
sor himi in that very moment this poor wretch seeing
himsels a little at liberty, nature inspired him with
hopes os lise, and he started away srom them, and ran
with incredible swistness along the sands, directly to-
wards me; I mean towards that part os the coast where
my habitation was.
I was dreadsully srighted (that I must acknowledge)
whert I perceived him run my way; and especially when,
as I thought, I saw him pursutcl by the whole body;
and now I expected that part o'i my dream was coining
to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my
grove; but I could not depend, by any means, upon
my dream sor the rest os it; viz. that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and sind him therei how-
ever, I kept my station, and my spirits began to reco-
ver, when I sound that there were not above three men
that sollowed him; and still more was I encouraged,
when I sound that he outstrips them exceedingly in ruu,-
B 3 p/uig
ning, and gained ground os them, so that is lie could
but hold it for hals an hour, I saw easily he would sairly
get away srom them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned osten at the sirst part os my story,
when I landed my cargoes out os the ship; and this I
knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch
would be takeni but when the savage, escaping, came thi-
ther, he made nothing os it, though the tide was then
up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with ex-
ceeding strength and swistness ; the three pursuers came
to the creek, I sound that two os them could swim but
the third could not, and that he, standing on the other
side, looked at the other, but went no sarther, and soon
aster went sostly back again; which, as it happened,
was very well sor him in the main.
I observed that the' two who swam, were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
scllow was that sled srom them; it came now very
warmly into my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
this was the time to get a servant, and perhaps a com-
panion or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Pro-
vidence to save this poor creature's lise. I immedi-
ately got down the ladders with all possible expedition,
sctched my two guns, sor they were both at the soot os
the ladder, as I observed besore; and getting up again
with the same haste to the top os the hill, I crossed to-
wards the sea; and, having a very short cut, and all
down hill, clapped mysels in the way between the pur-
siiers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that sled;
who, looking back, was at sirst perhaps as much
srighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back; and in the menn time I
slowly advanced towards the two that sollowed; then
rushing at once upon the soremost, I knocked him down
with the stock os my piece; I was loth to sire, be-
cause I would net have the rest hear; though at that
distance
distance it would not have been easily,heard; and be-
ing out os sight os the smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make os it.
Having knocked this scllow down, the other who
pursued him stopped, as is he had been srightened, and
I advanced apace towards him; but as I came nearer,
I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was
sitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to
shoot at him sust; which I did, and killed him at the sirst
shot. The poor savage who sled, but had stopped,
though he saw both his enemies, sallen, and killed, (as
he thought) yet was so srighted with the sire and noise
os my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came
sorward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to sly still than to come on. I hallooed again
to him, and made him signs to come sorward, which he
easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, and then a little sarther, and stopped again; and
I could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he
had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed,
as his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come
to me, and gave him all the encouragement I could think
os; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every
ten or twelve steps, in token os acknowledgement sor
saving his lisc. I smiled at him, looked pleasantly,
and beckoned him to come still nearer. At length
he came close to me, and then kneeled down again,
and kissed the ground, and laid his head upon it, and
taking me by the soot, set my soot upon his headi
this, it seems, was in token os swearing to be my slave
sor ever. I took him up, made much os him, and en-
couraged him all I could. But there was more work
to do yet; sor I perceived the savage, whom I knocked
down, was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and
began to come to himselsi so I pointed to him, and
shewed him the savage, that he was not dead; upon
this lie spoke some words to me, and though I could
not understand them, yet I'thought they were plea-
sant to hear, sor they were the sirst sound os a man's
voice
'voice that I had heard (my own exempted) sor above
sive-and-twenty years i hut there was no time sor iuch
reslections nowi the savage, who was knocked down,
recovered himsels so sar, as to sit up upon the ground;
and I perceiv.d that mv savage began to be atraid;
but when I law that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as is I would snoot himi upon this my savage, sor
ib I cal'ed him now, ma'le a motion to me to lend him
my I word, which liuiig nak,d in a belt by my side; ib
1 did i be no sooner had it, but he ran to his eiKmy,
and at one blow cut oss his head so cleverly, no execu-
tiorer in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very stiange for one, who I had reason
to believe, never saw a Iword in his lise besore, except
their own woer'en swords; however, it seems, as I
learned asterwards, they made their wooden swords so
sharp, ib heavy, and the wood so hard, that they will
cut oss heads even with them, aye, and arms, ar.d that
at one blow. When he had done this, he came
laughing to me in sign os triumph, and brought me the
sword again; and with abundance os gestures, winch I
did not understand, la.d it down, with the head os the
savage that he had killed, just besore me.
But that which astonished him most was, to know
how I had killed the other Indian so sar off; so point-
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him i
so I bade him go as well as I could. When he came
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him; turned
him sirst on one side, then on the other; looked at
the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was
just in his breast, where it had made an hole, and no
great q-aotity os blood had sollowed, but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He then took up
his bow and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go
away, an 1 beckoned him to sollow, making signs to
him, that more might come alter them. *
Upon this he signisied to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not-be seen by the rest,
es .hey sollowed; and so I made signs again t him to do
cooki: b saHTTœi" or select TWexs .

so. He sell to work, and in an instant had scraped
an hole in the sand with his hands, large enough to bury
the sirst in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him; and did so also by the other. I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter os an hour. Then call-
ing him away, I took him not to my castle, but quits
away to my cave, on the sarther part os the island; so
I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz.
that he came into my grove sor shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch os raisins to
eat, and a draught os water, which I sound he was in-
deed in great distress sor by his running; and having re-
sreshed him, I made signs sor him to go lie down and
sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great par-
cel os rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used
to sleep upon mysels sometimes; so the poor creature
Jay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome sellow, persectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large ; tall, and
well-shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years
os age. He had a very good countenance, not a sierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his sace, and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness os an European in his countenance too, espe-
cially when he siniledi his hair was long and black, not
curled like wool; his sorehead very high and large, and
a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The colour os his skin was not quite black, but very
tawny, and yet not os an ugly yellow, nauseous tawny,
as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of
America are, but os a bright kind, os a dun olive co-
lour, that had in it something very agreeable, though
not very easy to describe. His sace was round and
pkunp, his nose small, not slat like the Negroes; a
very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth sine, well
set, and white as ivory. Aster he had slumbered, ra-
ther than slept, about hals an hour, he waked again, and
came out os the cave to me, sor I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the inclosure just by. When
ht
he espied me, he came running to me, laying himsels
down agam upon the ground, with all the possible signs
os an humble, thanksul disposition, making many antic
gestures to ihew it. At last he laid his head slat upon
the ground close to my soot, and set my soot upon His
head, as he had clone besore; and aster this made all
the signs tome os subjection, servitude, and submission
imaginable, to let me know how much he would serve
me as long as he lived. I understood him in many
things, nr.d let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and sirst, I made him know his
name should be Friday, which was the day I saved his
lise, and called him so sor the memory os the time; I
likewise taught him to say 'Master,' and then let him
know that was to be my name; I likewise taught him
to say les a.id No, and to know the meaning os them;
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
\see me drink it besore him, and sop my bread in it;
and I gave him a cake os bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
very good sor him.
I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and
Jet him know I would give him some cloaths, at which
he seemed very glad, sor he was stark-naked. As we
went by the place where lie had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me the marks
that he had made to sind them again, making signs to
me that we should dig them up again, and eat them;
at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence os it, made as is I would vomit at the thoughts
os it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he did immediately with great submisiion.
I then led him up to the top os the hill, to see is his
enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I looked
and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no
appearance os them, or os their canoes; so that it was
plain they were gone, and had lest their two comrades
behind
behind them, without any search aster them. How-
ever, I was not content with this discovery) but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I sound he could use very dexterously,
making him cany one gun sor me, and I two sor my-
sels, and away we marched to,the place where those
creatures had been; sor I had a mind now to get some
suller intelligence os them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran cold in my veins, and my heart sunk
within me at the horror os the spectacle. Indeed it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing os it. The place was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with the blood,
great pieces os slesh left here and there hals eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens os
the triumphant seast they had been making there, a'ter
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, sive
hands, and the bones os three or sour legs and seet,
and abundance os other parts os the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand, that
they brought over sour prisoners to seast upon; that
three os them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to
himsels, was the sourth; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose sub-
jects, it seems, he had been one os; and that they had
taken a great number os prisoners, all os whom were
carried to several places by thote that had taken them
in the sight, in order to seast upon them, as was done
here by these wretches upon those they brought hi-
ther.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, skih,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on an
heap, and make a great sire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I sound Friday had still a hankering stomach
alter some os the sleih, and was still a canibal in his
nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts os it, and at the least appearar.ee os it,
that
that he durst not discover it; sor I had, by some
means, let him know, that I would kill him is he os-
scred it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I set to work sor my man Friday; and sirst
-os all, I gave him a pair os linen drawers, which I had
out os the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which
I sound in the wreck; and which, with a little alte-
ration, sitted him very well; then I made him a jerkin
'- os goat's skin, as well as my (kill would allow, sor I
was now grown a tolerable good taylor; and I gave
him a cap, which I had made os an hare-slcin, very con-
venient, and saihionable enough: and thus he was
dressed, sor the present, tolerably well, and highly was
he pleased to see himsels almost as well cloathed as his
master. It is true, he went aukwardly in these things
it sirsti wearing the drawers was very aukward to him,
and the sleeves os the waistcoat galled his shoulders and
the inside os his aims; but by letting them out a little, ,
and a sarther practising their use, they became easy and
familiar to him.
The next day aster I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I ihould lodge him; and
that I might do well sor him, and yet be persectly easy
mysels, I made a little tent sor him in the vacant place
between my two sortisications, in the inside os the last,
and in the outside os the sirsti and as there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a sormal sramed
door case, and a door to it os boards, and set it up in
the passage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside os my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it must
needs awaken me; sor my sirst wall had now acompleat
roos over it os long poles, covering all my tent, and
leaning up to the side os the hill, which was again laid
across with small sticks instead os laths, and then thatch-
ed over a great thickness with the rice straw, which was
a strong
strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
lett to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind
os trap-door, which, is it had been atienipsed on the
out-side, would not have opened at all, but would have
sallen down, and made a great noise; and as to wea-
pons, I took them all in to my side every night.
But I needed none os all this precaution; sor never
man had a more saithsul, loving, sincere servant, than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullennes's, or de-
signs; persectly obliging and engaging; his very as-
scctions were tied to me, like thole os a child to a sa-
ther, and I dare say, he would have sacrisiced his lise
sor the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
The many testimonies he gave me os this put it out os
doubt; and soon convinced me, I needed not to use any
precautions as to my sasety on his account.
This srequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God in his
providence, and in the government os the works os
his hands, to take srom so great a part os the world os
his creatures, the best uses to which their saculties and
the powers os their souls are adapted; yet that he has
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason,
the same affections, the same sentiments os kindness and
obligation, the same passions and resentments os wrongs,
the same sense os gratitude, sincerity, sidelity, and all
the capacities os doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to us; and that when he pleases to offer
them occasions os exerting these, they are as ready, nay,
more ready, to apply them to the right uses sor which
they are bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reslecting, as the seve-
ral occasions presented, how mean an uie we make os
all these powers enlightened by the great lamp os in-
struction, the Spirit os God, and by the knowledge os
his Word, added to our understanding; and why it has
pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so
m?.ny souls, who, is I might judge by this poor savage,
would make a much better use os it than we did?
Vol. II. 29 C From
From hence I sometimes was led too sar to invade
the sovereignty os Providence, and, as it were, arraign
the justice os so arbitrary a disposition os things, that
mould hide that light srom some, and reveal it to others,
and yet expect a like duty srom both. But I checked
my thoughts with this conclusioni First, That we dd
not know by what light and law these should be con-
demned; but that, as God was necessarily, and by the
nature os his being, insinitely holy and just, so it could
be, but that is these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence srom himsels, it was on account os sinning against
that light, which, as die Scripture sa)s, 'was a law to
« themselves,' and by such rules as their consciences
would acknowledge to be just, though the soundation
was not discovered to us. And, secondly, That still, as
we are all clay in the hand os the potter, no vesl'el could
say to him—' Why hast thou sormed me thus?
But to return to my new companion. I was greatly
delighted to teach him every thing*that was proper to
make him usesul, handy, and helpsuli but especially
to make him speak, and understand me when I ipoke;
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and parti-
cularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and ib
pleased when he could but understand me or make me
understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk
to him; and now my lise became so easy, that I began
to say to mysels, that could I but have been sase srom
more savages, I cared not is I was never to remove srom
the place while I lived.
Aster I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday ofs
srom his horrid way os seeding, and srom the relish os
a canibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other slesh;
so I took him out with me one morning to the woods; I
went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out os my own
slock, and bring it home and dress iti but, as I was go-
ing, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her. I catched hold os Friday—
• Hold, (said I) stand still,' and made %is to him
not
not to stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot,
and killed one os the kids. The poor creature,
who had at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine, how it
was done, was sensibly surprized, trembled, and shook
and looked so amazed, that I thought he wsuld have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to
seel is he was not wounded ; and, as I sound, presently,
thought I was resolved to kill him; sor he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand, but I could
easily see that his meaning was to pray me not to
kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed, at
and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned
to him to run and setch it, which he didi and while he
was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-by I
saw a great sowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within
shot; To, to let Friday understand a little what I would
do, I called him to me again, pointing at the sowl,
which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had
been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him sall, I made him understand that
I would moot and kill that bird; accordingly I sired,
and bid him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall. He stood like one srighted again, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him; and I sound he was the more
amazed, because he did not see me put any thing into
the gun; but thought there must be some wondersul
sund os death and destruction in that thing, able to
kill man, beast, bird, or any thing near or sar oss;
the astonishment this created in him was such, as
he could not wear off sor a long time; and I believe, is
I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my guni as sor my gun itsels, he would not so
'Q j much
much as touch it sor several days aster; but would
speak to it, and talk to it, as is it had answered him,
when he was by himsels; which, as I asterwards learn-
ed os him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, aster his astonishment was alittle over at this,
I pointed to him to run and setch the bird I had shot,
which he did, but staid some time; sor the parrot not
being quite dead, was sluttered a good W3y off srom the
place where she sell; however, he sound her, took her
up and brought her to me; and, as I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun besore, I took this advantage
to charge the gun again, and not let him lee me do it,
that I might be ready sor any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that timei so I
brought ;'ome my kid, and the same evening I took
the skm off, and cut it out as well as I could, and hav-
ing a pot sor that purpose, I boiled or stewed some os
the sieth, and made some very good broth; aster I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad os it, and liked it very well; but that which
was strangest to him was, to see me eat salt with it.
He made a sign to me, that the salt was not good to
eat, and putting a little into his own month, he seemed
to nauseate it, and woul spit and sputter at it, wash-
ing his mouth with sresh water aster it; on the other
hand, I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and
I pretended to spit and sputter lor want os salt, as sast
a,s he had done at the salt; but it would not do, he
would never care sor salt with meat, or in his broth;
at least, not sor a great while, and then but a very little.
Hav.ng thus sed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next dav with roasting a
piece o! the kid; this I did by hanging it besore the
sire in a string, as I had seen many people doi in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the sire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the slesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
* liked
liked it, that I could not but understand him i and at
last he told me he would never eat man's slesh any more,
which I was very glad to hear.
The next dav I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sisting it in the manner I used to do, as I
observed besore; and he. soon understood how to do it
as well as I, especially aster he had seen what the mean-
ing os it was, and that it was to make bread osi sor
after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it
too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work sor me, as well as I could do it mvsels.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to
seed instead os one, I must provide more ground sor my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity os com than I used
to do; so I marked out a larger piece os land, and be-
gan the sence in the same manner as besore, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly, and very hard,
but did it very chearsully; and I told him what it was
sor, that it was sor corn to make more bread, because he
was now with me, and that I might have enough sor
him and mysels too. He appeared very sensible os that
part, and let me know, that he thought I had much more
labour upon me on his account, than I had sor mysels,
and that he would work the harder sor me, is I would tell
him what todo.
This was the pleasantest year os all I had spent in
this place i Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names os almost every thing I had occasion to
call sor, and os every place I had to send him to, and
talk a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use sor my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion sor besore; that is to say,
about speech. Besides the pleasiire os talking to him,
I had a singular satissaction in the sellow hunsels; his
simple unseigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creature ; and
on his side, I believe, he loved me more than it was
possible lor him ever to love any thing besore.
I had a mind once to try is he had any hankering in-
C 3 clination
clination to his own country again; and having learned
him E.igl.sh fo well, that he could anfwer me almost
any qudt.ons; I asked him, whether the nation that he
belonged to nevei' conquered in battle. At which he
fmilfd, and iaid ' YiS, yes, we always sight the bet-
ter!' that is, he meant, always get the beiter in sight;
and ib we began the following difcourse. 'You always
'sight the better! (tsid I) how came you to be taken
'prifoner then, Friday?'
Fridav. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How bent! it your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
Fridav. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two, great
tousmd.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
fro'n 'the hand sol your enemies then?
Fridav. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your na-
tion do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away, and cat them, as thefe did?
Fridav. Yes, my nation eat mans tco; eat all
up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Fridav. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Fridav. Yes, yes, they come hither; ceme other
elfe place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Fridav. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N.W.
side os the island, which, it feems, wai their side.)
By this I understood, that my man Friday had for-
merly been am-ing the favages, who ufed to come on
shore entiie farther part of the island, on the fame man-
eating occasions that he" was now brought for; and
fome
fome time after, when I took the courage to carry him
to that side, being the fame I formerlv mentioned, lie
prefentlv knew the place, and told me, he was there
once when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child. He could not tell twenty in English, hut
he numbered them by laving fo many stones in a row,
and pointing to me to ;e!l them over.
I have told this passage, becau.e it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this difcourse with him,
I asked him, how far it was from our itland to the shore,
and whether tht canoes were not often losti he told me
there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that af-
ter a little wav out to fea, there was a current, and a
wind always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the fets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I asterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and re-
slux of the mighty River Oroonoque; in the mouth of
which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth os the riveri I asked Friday a thou-
fand questions about the country, the inhabitants. the
fea, the coast, and what nations were near; he told me
all he knew, with the greatest opennefs imaginablei I
aiked him the names os the feveral nations os his fort
of people, but conid get no other name than the Caribs,
from whence I easily understoood, that thefe were the
Caribees, which our maps place on that part cf Ame-
rica that reaches s'rem the mouth of the River Oroo-
noque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Marthai he told
me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that was,
beyued the fetting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white.bearded men,
like me, and pomted to my great wiskers, which I
mentioned besore; and that they had killed much mans
(that was his word i) by which I understood he meant
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been
been spread over the whole countries, and were remem-
bered by all the nations srom sather to son.
I enquired is he could tell me how I might come srom
this island, and get among those white men; he told
me, yes, yes, I might go in two canoe; I could not
understand what he meant by two canoe ; till at last,
with great dissiculty, I sound he meant, that it must be
in a large great boat as big as two canoes.
This part os Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well; and srom this time I entertained some
hopes, that one time or other I might sind an oppor-
tunity to make my escape srom this place, and that this
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that lie began to speak to me, and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a soundation os religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly, I asked him one
time, who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his
sather; but I took it by another handle, and asked him,
who made the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills
and wood? He told me, it was one old Benamuckee
that lived beyond all. He could describe nothing os
this great person, but that he was very old; much older
he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or the
stars. I asked him then, is this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a persect look os innocence said—;
'All things say O to him.' I asked him, is the people
who died in his country went away anv where. He said,
yes, they all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked him,
whether those they eat up went thither too. He said, yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the know-
ledge os the true God. I told him, that the Great
Maker os all things lived there, pointing up towards
Heaven i that he governs the world by the same power
and providence by which he made it ; that he was om-
nipotent; cousd do everv thing sor us; give every thing
to us, take every thing srom us; and thus, by degrees,
I opened his eyesi he listened with great attention, and
received with pleasure the notion os Jeius Christ being
sent to redeem us, and os the manner or mikmg our
prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
Heaven. He told me, one day, that is our God could
hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way
oss, and yet could not hear, till they went up to the great
mountains where he dwelt, to speak to hun. I asked
is ever he went thither to speak to him. He said, no,
they never went that were young men; none went thi-
ther but the old men, whom he called their Oowooka-
kee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their re-
ligious or clergyi and that they went to say O, (so he
called saying prayers) and then came back, and told
them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that
there is priestcrast even among the most blinded igno-
rant pagans in the world, and the policy os makinp- a
secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration os
the people to the clergy, is not only to be sound in
the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the
world, even among the most brutish and barbarous
savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this sraud to my man Fri-
day, and told him, that the pretence os their old men
going up to the mountains to say O to their god Bena-
muckee, was a cheat, and their bringing word srom
thence v/hat he said, was much more io; that is they
met with any aniwer, or ipoke,with any one there, it
must be with an evil spiriti and then I entered into a
long discourse with him about the devil, the original
os him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man,
the reason os it, his setting himsels up in the dark parts
os the world to be worshipped instead os God, and as
God; and the many stratagems he made use os to de-
lude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access
to our passions, and to our affections, to adapt his
shares so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be
our own tempters, and to run upon our own destruction,
by our own choice. I
I sound it was not so easy to imprint right notions Ii;
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being os
a Godi nature assisted all my arguments to evince to
him even the necessity os a great First Cause, and over-
ruling governing Power, a secret directing Providence,
and os the equity and justice os paying homage to him
that made us, and the likei but there appeared no-
thing os all this in the notion os an evil spirit, os his
original, his being, his nature, and above all, os his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too i
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a man-
ner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that
I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking
a great deal to him os the power os God, his omnipo-
tence, his dreadsul aversion to sin, his being a consum-
ing sire to the workers os iniquity; that as he had
made us all, he could destroy us, and all the world, in
a moment; and he listened with great serioushess to me
all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts os men, and used all his
malice and skill to deseat the good designs os Provi-
dence, and to ruin the kingdom os Christ in the world,
and the like. 'Well (says Friday) but you say, God
'is so strong, so great, is he not much strong, much
< might, as the devil?—' Yes, yes, (laid I) Friday,
'God is stronger than the devil; God iS above the
'deviJ; and theresore we pray to God to tread him un-
'dei" our seet, and enable us to resist his temptations,
• and quench his siery darts.' ' But (says he again) is
• God much strong, much might as the devil, why
f God not kill the devil, so make him no more wicked?'
I was strangely surprized at his question; and, af-
ter all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but
a young doctor, and ill enough qualisied sor a casuist,
pr a solver ot dissiculties i and, at sirst I could not tell
what to say; so I pretended not to hear him, andasked
him what he saidi but he was too earnest sor an answer
to sorget his question j so that he repeated it in the very
fame
feme broken words as above. By this time I had re-
covered mysels a little, and I said—' God will at last
* punish him severely, he is reserved sor the judgment,
* and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with
'everlasting sire.* This did net satissy Friday, but
lie returned upon me, repeating my words—' Reserve
'at last, me no understand i but why not kill the devil
'now, not kill great ago?'—' You may as well ask
* me, (said I) why God does net kill you and me,
* when we do wicked things here that offend himi we are
'preserved to repent and be pardoned.' He mused
awhile at this; 'Well, well! (says he) very affec-
'tionately;' 'that well' so you, I, devil, all wick-
'ed, all preserve, repent, God pardon all!' Here
I was run down again by him to the last degree, and it
was a testimony to me, how the mere notions os nature,
though they will guide reasonable creatures to the know-
ledge os a God, and os a worship or homage due to the
supreme being os God, as the consequence <.s our na-
ture; yet nothing but Divine Revelation can sorm the
knowledge os Jesus Christ, and os a redemption pur-
chased sor us; os a mediator, os a new covenant, and
os an intercessor at the sootstool os God's throne; I say,
nothing but a revelation srom Heaven can sorm these in
the soul; and that theresore the Goipel os our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean, the word os God, and
the Spirit os God, promised sor the guide and sancti-
sier os his people, are the absolutely necessary instruc-
tors os the souls os men in the saving knowledge os God
and the means os salvation.
I theresore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sud-
den occasion os going out; then sending him sor some-
thing a great way oss, I seriously prayed to God, that
he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage,
assisting by his Spirit the heart os the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light os the knowledge os God
in Christ, reconciling him to himsels, and would guide
me to speak so to him srom the Word os Gcd, as his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul savedi when he came again to me, I en-
tered into a long discourse with him upon the subject
ot' the redemption os man by the Saviour os the world,
and os the doctrine os the Gotpel preached srom Hea-
ven; viz. os repentance towards God, and saith in our
blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him, as well
as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature os angels, but the seed os Abraham, and
how sor that reason the sallen angels had no mare in
the redemption; that he came only to the lost sheep os
the house os Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took sor this poor creature's in-
struction; and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will sind, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really insormed and instruct-
ed mysels, in many things that either I did not know,
or had not sully considered besore; but which occurred
•naturally to r.iy mind, upon my searching into fhem sor
the insormation os this poor savage; and I had more
affection in my enquiry aster things upon this occasion,
than ever I selt besore; so that whether this poor wild
wretch was the better sor me or no, I had great reason
to be thanksul that ever he came to me; my gries sat
lighter upon me, my habitation grew comsortable to me
beyond measure; and when I reslected, that in this so-
litary lise which I had been consined to, I had not onlv-
been moved mysels to look up to Heaven, and to seek
to tiie hand that brought me thither, but was now to
be made an instrument, under Providence to save the
lise, and sor aught I know, the soul os a poor savage,
and bring him to the true knowledge os religion, and
os the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ
Jesus, to know whom is lite eternal; I say, when I
reslected upon ail things, a secret joy ran through every
part os my soul, and I srequently rejoiced that ever I
was
was brought to this place, which I had osten thought
the most dreadsul os all afflictions that could possibly
have besallen me.
In this thanksul srame I continued all the remainder
os my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together, persectly
and compieatly happy, is any such thing as compleat
happiness can be sound in a sublunary state. The sa-
vage was now a good Christian, a much better than I;
though I have reaibn to hope, and bless God sor it, that
we were equally penitent, and comsorted, restored peni-
tents i we had here the Word os God to read, and
were no sarther off srom his Spirit to instruct, than is
we had been in England.
I always applied mysels to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I cousd, the meaning os
what I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries and
questions, made me, as I said besore, a much better scho-
lar in the Scripture-knowledge, than I should ever have
been by my own mere private readingi another thing I
cannot resrain srom observing here also srom experience
in this retired part os my lise, viz. how insinite and in-
expressible a blessing it is, that the knowledge ot God,
and os the doctrine os salvation by Christ Jeius, is so
plainly laid down in the Word os God, so easy to be re-
ceived and understood that as the bare reading the Scrip-
ture made me capable os understanding enough os my
duty to carry me directly on to the great work os' sincere
ivpentance sor my sins, and laying hold os a Saviour
sor lise and salvation, to a stated resormation in prac-
tice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor, (I mean human,) so
the plain instruction sussiciently served to the enlighten-
ing this savage creature, and bring him to be such a
Christian, as I have known sew equal to him in my
lisc.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strise, and conten-
tion, which have happened in the world about religion,
Vol. II. 29 D whether
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes or' church-go-
vernment, they were all persectly useless to us; as sor
aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in
the work!i we had the lure guide to Heaven, viz. the
Word os God; and we had, blessed be God, comsorta-
ble views os the Spirit os God, teaching and instructing
us by his word, 'leading us into all truth,' and mak-
ing us both willing and obedient to the instruction os
his word; and I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge os the disputed points in religion, which have
made such contusions in the world, would have been to
us, is we could have obtained it. But I must goon
w.th the historical part os things, and take every part
in its order.
Aster Friday and I becamemore intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almcst all I said to him,
and speak sluently, though in broken English, to me;
I acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much
os it as related to my coming into the place, how I had
lived there, and how long. I let him into the mystery
(sor such it was to him) os gunpowder and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot; I gave him a knisc, which he
was wondersully delighted with; and I made him a belt
with a srog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in; and in the srog, instead os a hanger, I gave
him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon in
some cases, but much more usesul upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries os Europe, and par-
ticularly England, which' I came srom; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one ano-
ther, and how we traded in strips to all the parts os the
world. I gave him an account os the wreck which I had
been on board os, and shewed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay; but me was all beaten in pieces
long besore, ar.d quite gone.
I shewed him the ruins os our boat, which we loft
when we escaped, and which I could not stir wkh my
whole strength then, but was now sallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
gnat
great while, and said nothing; I asked him what it was
he studied upcn. At last, lays he—" Me see such boat
like come to place at my Nation."
I did not understand him sor some time; but at last
when I had examined sarther into it, I understood by him,
that a boat such as that had been come on more upon the
cpwntry where he lived; that is', as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress os weather. I presently ima-
gined, that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought
os men making escape srom a wreck thither, much
less whence they might come; so I only enquired aster
a description os the boct,
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with some warmth—" We save the white mans
"srom drown." I then atked him, is there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat ?" Yes,"
he said, " the boat sull os white mans." I asked him,
bow manyi he told me upon his singers seventeen. I
asked him then what became os them. He told me—
"They live, they dwell at my nation."'
This put new thoughts into my head again; sor
I presently imagined that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight os my
island, as I now call it; and who, aster the ship was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had
saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon
that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this, I enquired os him more critically, what
was become os themi he assured me they lived still there,
that they had been there about sour years, and that the sa-
vants let them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I
asked him, how it came to pass they did not kill them,
and eat them. . He said—" No, they make brother with
"them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and
then he added, " They eat no mans but when make the
"war sighti" that is to say, they never eat any
D z men,
men, but such as come to sight with them, and are
taken in battle.
It was aster this, some considerable time, that being
on the top os the lull, at the east side os the island, srom
whence, as I have laid,] had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent in America; Friday, the weather
being serene, looked very earnestly towards the main
land, and, in a kind os surprize, sell to jumping and
dancing, and calling out to me, sor I was at .'ome distance
from himi I asked him what was the matter. "O
joy!" says he; " O glad! There, see my country,
"there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense os pleasure appeared
in his sace, his eyes ipnrkkd, and his countenance dis-
covered a strange eagerness, as is he had a mind to be in
his own country ngaini and this observation brought
miry thoughts into my mind which made me at sirst
no! so eaiy about my new man Friday as I was besore;
and I ma.le no doubt, but that is Friday could get back
to his own nation again, he would not only sorget all
his religion, but all his obligations to me; and would be
sorward enough to give his countrymen an account os
me, and come back, perhaps, with an hundred or twoos
them, and make a scast upon me, at which he might be
as merry as he used to be with those os his enemies,
when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
sor which I was very sorry afterwards; however, as ir.y
jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was a
little more circumspect, and not so tamiliir and kind to
him as besore; in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest gratesul creature having no thoughts about
him, but what consisted os the best principles, both as a
religious Christian, and as a gratesul friend; as ap-
peared asterwards to my sull satissaction.
Whilst my jealousy os him lasted, you may be sure
I was everydav pumping him, to try is he would dis-
cover any os the new thoughts which I suspected were
>n him; but I found every thing he said was so honest,
and
and so innocent, that I could not discover any thing to
nourish my suspicion; and, in spite os all my uneasiness,
lie made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in
the least perceive that I was uneasy, and theresore I could
not suspect himcs deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the Continent,
I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish
"yoursels in your own country, your own nation ?"—
"Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to be at my own
"nation"—"What would you do there?" said I,
"would you turn wild again, eat man's slesh again,
"and be a savage as you were besore?" He looked full
os concern, and shaking his head, said, " No, no,
"Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray
"God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-slesh, milk;
'" no eat man again."—" Why then," said I to him,
"they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, "No, they no kill me, they willing
"love learn." He meant by this, they would be
willing to learn. He added, they learned much os
the bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked
him, is he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me he could not swim so sar. I told him I
- would make a cancescr him. He told me he would go,
ii I would go with him. "I go!" said I; "why they
*' will eat me is I come there."—" No, no," says' he,
"me make them no eat you, me make they much love
"you." He meant, he would tell them how T had
killed his enemies, and saved his lise, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me, as well as he
gnu Id, how kind they were to the seventeen white men,
or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore
in distress.
From this time, I consess, I had a mind to venture
over, and fee is I ccukl possibly join with these bearded
men, who, I made nodoubt, were Spaniards or Portu-
guese; not doubting but, ii I could, we might sind some
method to esxape frem thence, being upon the continent,
D 3 and
and a good company together, better than I could srom
an island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without
help; so, after some days, I took Friday to work again,
by way os discourse; and told him, I would give him a
boat to go back to !iis own nation; and accordingly I
carried Rim to my srigate, which lay on the other side
os the island; and having cleared it os water1, (sor I al-
ways kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out, shewed
it him. and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous sellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swist and sast again as I
couldi so when he was in, I said to him, "Well, now,
"Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked
very dull at my saying so; which, it seems, was be-
came he thought the boat too small to go so sar. I told
him then I had a bigger; so the next c'ay, I went to the
place where the sirst boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into the water; he laid that was
big enough; but then, as I had taken no care os it, and
it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the sun
had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread; that was
his way os talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so sixed upon my
design os going over with him to the continent, that I
told him we should go and make one as big as that, and
he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I alked him what was
the matter with him? He asked me again thusi "Why
"you angry mad with Friday? what me done?" I
asked him what he meanti I told him I was not angry
with him at all. "No angry! no angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times; "why send Fri-
"day home away to my nation?"—" Why," said I,
"Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?"
—" Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there; no wish
"Fiidny there, no master there." In a word, he
would not think os going there without me. "I go
there,
"there, Friday?" said Ii "whatshould I do there?"
He turned very quick upon me at this; "You do great
deal much goed," says hei "you teach wild mans be
"good, sober, tame mans i you tell them know Cod,
"pray God, and live new lise."—" Alas! Friday,"
said I, "theu knowest not what theu sayesti I am but
"an ignorant man mysels."—" Yes, yes," lays he,
*' you teachee me good, you teechee them good."
—" No, no, Friday," said I, "you mail go without
"mei leave me here to live by mysels, as I did besore."
He locked confused again at that word; and running to
one os the hatchets which he used to wear, he took it up
hastily and gave it me. "What must I cio with this?"
said I to him. '•' You take kill Friday," savs he,
«' What must I kill you sor?" said I again. He re-
turns vety quick, "What you send Friday away sor?
"Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he
speke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In
a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in
him to me, and a sirm resolution in him, that I told him
then, and osten aster, that I would never send him away
srom me, is he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I sound by all his discourse, a
settled affection tome, and that nothing should part him
srom me, so I sound all the soundation os his desire to go
to his own country, was laid in his ardent affection to
the people, and his hor-s os my doing them good; a
thing, which, as I had no notion os mysels, so I had
not the least thought, intention, or desire os undertak-
ing it; but still I sound a strong inclination to my at-
tempting an escape, as above, sounded on the supposi-
ticn gathered srom the sormer discourse, viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and theresore, with-
out any delay, I went to work with Friday, to sind out
a great tree piopir to sell, and make a large perigua or
canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little sleet, not os po
riguns and canoes only, but even os good large vesselsi
but the main thing I locked at, was to get one so near
the water, that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at sirst.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; sor I found he
knew much better than I, what kind os wood was siitest
sor it; nor can I tell to this day what wood to call
the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the
tree we call sustick, or between that and the nicaragua-
wood, sor it was much os the same colour and smell.
Friday was sor burning the hollow or cavity os this
tree out, to make it into a boat; but I shewed him how
rather to cut it out with tools, which, aster I shewed
him how to use, he did very handily, and in about
a month's hard labour we sinished it, and made it very
handsome, especiallv when with our axes, which I shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into
the true shape os a boat; aster this, however, it cost us
near a sortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers, into the wateri but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
great ease.
When slie was in the water, and though she was so
big; it ainazed me tojee with what dexterity and how
swist my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along; so I asked him it he would, and is we
might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, he ven-
"tureover in her verv well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a sarther design, that he knew nothing
oi, and that was to make a mast and sail, and to
sit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast,
that was eaiy enough to get; so I pitched upon a
straight young cedar-tree, which I sound near the
place, and which there was great plenty os in the
island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to shape and order it;
but as to the sail that was my particular care. I knew
I had old sails, or rather pieces os old sails enough;
but as I had had them now twenty-six years by me, and
had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagin-
ing that I should ever have this kind os uie sor them,
I did
I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and indeed
most "os them were so; however, I sound two pieces
which appeared pretty good, and with these I went to
work, and with a great deal os pains, and aukward te-
dious stitching, (you may be sure) for want cs needles,
I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what
we call in England a ihoulder-os-muttcn sail, togowitha
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such
as usually our ships long-boats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage, because it was such an one as
I used in the boat in which I made my escape from Bar-
bary, as related in the sirst part os my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and sitting my mast and sails; sor I sinished
them very compleat, making a small stay, and a sail or
soresail to it, to assist is we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I sixed a rudder to the
stern os her, to steer with; and though I was but a
bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usesulness and
even nectsiity os such a thing, I applied mysels with
so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pal's,
though, considering the many dull contrivances I had
sor it that sailed, I think it cost me almost as much la-
bour as making the boat.
Aster all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation os my boat; sor
though he knew verv well how to paddle the canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and
was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to-
and-again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and silled this way or that way, as the course
we sailed charged; I say, when he saw this, he stood
like one astonished and amazed; however, with a little
use, I made all these things samiliar to him, and he be-
'came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I
could make hun understand very little os that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom cr never any legs in those parts, there was the
lefo occasion sor a compass, seeing the stars were always
to
to be seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the
rainy seasons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad, ei-
ther by land or lea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year os
my captivity in this place; though the three last years,
that I had this creature with me, ought rather to he lest
out ot the account, my habitation being quite os another
kind than in all the rest os my time. I kept the anni-
versary os my landmg here with the. same thanksulness
to God sor his mercies as at sirsti and is I had such cause
ps acknowledgment at sirst, I had much more so now,
having such additional testimonies os the care os Provi-
dence over me, and the great hopes I had ol bemg es-
scctually and ipeedily delivered; sor I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with my husbandry, digging, plant-
ing, sencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing, as besore.
'The rainy iesson was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more with-in-doors than at other timesi so
I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bring-
ing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the begin-
ning, I landed my rasts srom the ship; and hauling her /
up to the shore, at high-water mark, I made my man
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and
just deep enough to give her water enough to sloat in;
and then when the tide was out, we made a strong dam
across the end os it, to keep the water out; and so she
lay dry, as to the tide, srom the sea; and to keep the
rain oss, we laid a great many boughs os trees so thick,
that me was as well thatched as an house; and thus we
waited sor the months os November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought os my design returned with the sair weather, I
was preparing daily sor the voyage; and the sirst thing
I did was to lay up a certain quantity os provision, being
the score sor the voyage; and intended in a week or a sort-
night'*
night's tune to open the deck, and laur.ch out our boat*
I was busy one morning upon something os this kind,
when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-
st.ore, and see is he could sind a turtle or tortoise, a
ik.ng which we generally got or.ee a wiek, sor the sake
os the eggs as well as the slesh. Friday had not been
1i r.g gone, when he came running back, and slew over
II y outward wall, or sence, like one that selt not the
rrcund, or the steps he set his scet on; and besore I
had time so speak to him, he cried out to me—" O
"n aster! O master! O sorrow! Obad!—"What is
"the matter, Friday!" said I. "O yonder there,"
says he, " one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!""
By this way os speaking, I concluded there were six;
but on enquiry I sound there were but three. "Well,
"Friday," said I, "do not be srightened;" so I hear-
ttr.ed him up as well as I could. However, I law the
J.-oor sellow most terribly scared; sor nothing ran in his
lead but that they were come to lock sor him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him. The poor sellew trem-
bied so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I
comsorted him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as
well as him. "But," said I, " Fi iday, we must resolve
"to sight them. Can you sight, Friday?"—" Me
"shoot," says he; "but there come many great num-
"ber."—" Nomatter sor that," said I again; " our
"guns will sright them that we do not kill." So I
astied him, whether, is I resolved to desend him, he
would desend me, and stand by me, and do just as I
bade him? He sait!—" Me die, when you bid die,
master." So I went and fetched a good dram os rum,
and gave him; sor I had been so geod an husband os
tr.y rum, that I had a great deal lest. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two sowling-pieces which
we always carried, and load them with large swan-sliot,
as big as small pistol-bullets; then I tcok sour mus-
kets, and loaded them with two slugs, and sive bnllets
each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace os bul-
, lets
lets eachi I hung my great sword as usual, naked bv my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared mysels, I took my per-
spective- ijlass, and went up to the side os the hill, to see
what I could discover; and I sound quickly, by my
glass, that there were one-ar.d-twenty savages, three pri-
soners, and three canoes; and that their whole business
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon thele three
human bodies; a barharous scast indeed; but no-
thing more than, as I have observed, was usual with
them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where
a thick wood came close almost down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence os the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, so silled me with indignation, that
I came down again to Friday, and told him I was re-
solved to go down to them, and kill them all; and asked
him is he would stand by me. He wasnowgottenover
his sright, and his spirits being a little rahed with the
dram I had given him, he was very chcarsul; and told
me as besore, " he would die, when I bid die."
In this sit os sury, I took iirst and divided the arms
which I had charged, as besore, between usi I save
Friday one pistol, to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other
three mysels; and in this poftuie we marched out. I
took a small bottle os rum in my pocket, and gr.ve
Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet; and
as to orders, I charged him to keep cio.'e behind me,
and not to stir, shoot, or do any thmg till I bid him;
and in the mean time, not to speak a word. In this
posture I setched a compass to my right-hand os near a
mile, as well to get over the creek, as to get into the
v.ood; so that I might come within shot os them besore
I could be discovered, which I had seen by my glais it
was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my sormer thoughts
2 Icturoing
returning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not
mean, that I entertained any sear ot' their number; sor
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them; nay, though I had been alone;
but it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occa-
sion, much less, what necessity, I was in to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people, who had neither
done or intended me any wrong; who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own
disaster, being in them a token indeed os God's having
lest them, with the other nations os that part os the
world, to such stupidity and to iuch inhuman courses;
but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge os
their actions, much less an executioner os his justice i
that whenever he thought sit, he would take the cause
into his own hands, and by national vengeance punish
them sor national crimes; but that, in the mean time,
it was none os my business; that it was true, Friday
might justisy it, because he was a declared enemy, and
in a state os war with those very particular people, and
it was lawsul sor him to attack them; but I could not
say the same with respect to mysels. These things so
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way I went,
that I resolved I would only go place mysels near them,
that I might observe their barbarous sea It, and that I
would act then as Gcd should direct; but that unless
something offered that was more a call to me than yet
I knew os, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood; and with
all possible wariness and silence, (Friday sollowing close
at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt os the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one corner os the wood lay between me and them. Here
I called sostly to Friday, and shewing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner os the wood, I bade him
go to the tree, and bring me word is he could see there
plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came im-
mediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly
viewed there; that they were all about the sire, eating
Vol. II. 29 E. the
the sle/h os one os the prisoners; and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little srom them, whom he said
they would kill next, and which sired the very soul
within me. He told me it was not one os their nation,
but one os the bearded men whom he had told me os,
who came to their country in the boat. I was silled
with horror at the very naming the white-bearded man;
and "going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a
white man who lay upon the beach os the sea, with his
hands and his seet tied with slags, or things like rushes,
and that he was an European, and had cloaths on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about sisty yards nearer to them than the place where
I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I mould be within
hals mot os them; so I witheld mv passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree,
and then I came to a little rising ground, which gave
me a sull view os them, at a distance os about eighty
yards.
I had now not a moment to losei sor nineteen os the
dreadsul wretches sat upon the ground all close huddled
together, and had just lent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb
to their sire; and they were stooped down to untie the
bands at his seet. I turned to Friday; ' NowFriday,*
laid I, ' do as I bid thee.' Friday said he would.
'Then Friday,' said I, ' do exactly as you see me do }
'sail in nothing.' So I let down one os the muiquets
and the sowling piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the like by his; and with the other musquet I took my
aim at the savages, bidding him do the like. Then
asking him it he was ready, he said—' Yes.'—' Then
sire at them,' said I; and the same moment I sired
also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side lie ihot, he killed two os them, and wounded
three
Goose's EornaN of SExtecx IVovei.s s

/tryitm-ttifor Ciho/K.I'.itrnHVttr fair. June ty'i&S- WOSES--
three more; and on my side, I killed one and wounded
two. They were, to be sure, in a dreadsul consterna-
tion; and all os them who were not hurt, jumped up
upon their seet immediately, but did not know which
way to run, or which way to look; sor they knew not
srom whence their destruction came- Friday kept his
eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
observe what I did; so as icon as the sirst shot was
made, I threw down the piece, and took up the sowl-
ing-piece, and Friday did the like i seeing me cock and
present, he did the same again. * Are you ready, Fri-
day?' said I, ' Yes,' said he. 'Let sly then,' said I,
'in the name os God!' and with that I sired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday! and
as our pieces were now loadenwith what I called swan-
mot, or small pistol-bullets, we sound only two drop;
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody and mi-
serably wounded, most os them; whereos three more
scll quickly aster, though not quite dead.
'Now, Friday,' said I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the mus'quet, which was yet
Ioaden, ' sollow me!' which he did with a deal os cou-
rage; upon which I rushed out os the wood, ami shewed
mysels, and Friday close at my soot. As soon as I per-
ceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and
bade-Friday do so too; and running as sast as I could,
(which, by the way, was not very sast, being loaded
with arms as I was) I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was, at I said, laying on the beach, or
sliore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers who were just going to work with
him, had lest him at the surprize os our sirst sire, and
sled in a terrible siight to the' sea-side, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more os the rest made the same
way i I turned to Friday, and bade him step sorwards
and sire at them; lie understood me immediately, and
running about sorty yards to be near them, he shot at
them, and I thought he had killed them all; sor I saw
E x them
them all sall on an heap into the boat; though I saw tw»
os them up again quickly i however, he killed two,
and wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bot-
tom os the boat, as is he had been dead.
While my man Friday sired at them, I pulled out my
knise, and cut the slags that bound the poor victim, and
loosing his hands and seet, I listed him up, and asked
him in the Portuguese tongue what he was? He an-
swered in Latin, ' Christianus;' but was so weak and
saint, that he could scarce stand or speak; I took my •
bottle out os my pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he mould drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece os bread, which he eat; then I asked him what
countryman he was? and he said, ' Espagnole;' and
being a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs
he could potsibly make, how much he was in my debt
sor his deliverance. 'Seignior,' said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, 'we will talk asterwards,
* but we must sight now i is you have any strength lest,
'take this pistol and sword and lay about you.' He
took them very thanksully, and no sooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as is they had put new vigour
into him, lie slew upon his murderers like a sury, and
had cut two os them in pieces in an instant; sor the
truth is, as the whole was a surprize to them, so the
poor creatures were so much srighted with the noise os
our pieces, that they scll down srom mere amazement
and tear, and had no more power to attempt their own
escape, than their sltsh had to resist our shot; and that
was the case with those sive that Friday shot in the
boati sor as three os them sell with the hurt they re-
ceived, so the other two sell with the sright.
I kept mv piece in my hand still, without siring, be-
ing willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to
Friday, and hade him runup to the tree trom whence we
sirst sired, and setch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then giving him my muscruet, I sat down mysels
to
to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading thesc pieces
there happened a- sierce engagement between the Spa-
niard and one os the savages, who made at him with
one or their great wooden swords, the same weapon that
was to have killed him besore, is I had not prevented
it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as
could be imagined, though weak, had sought this In-
dian a good while, and had cut two great wounds on
his head; but the savage, being a stout lusty sellow,
closing in with him, had thrown him down, (being
saint) and was wringing my sword out os his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting
his sword, drew the pistol srom his girdle, shot the sa-
vage through the body, and killed him upon the spot,
besore I, who was running to help, could come near
him.
Friday, being now lest at his liberty, pursued the
slying wretches with no weapon in his' hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three, who
-as I said besore, were wounded at sirst and sallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me sor a gun, I gave him one os the sowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two os the iavages and
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
they both got srom him into the woods, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one os them; but the other
was too nimble sor him; and though he was wounded,
yet he plunged into the sea, and swam with all his might
oss to thole who were lest in the canoe; with three in the
canoe, with one wounded, who we know not whether
he died or no, were all that escaped our hands os oneand
twenty. The account os the rest is as sollows i
3 Killed at our shot srom the tree.
a Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
a Killed byditto, os those at sirst wounded.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
1 E 3 3 Killed
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being sound dropt here and there, os their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace os them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereos one wounded, is not
dead.
21 In all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
os gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three mot
at them, I did not sind that he hit any os them. Friday
would sain have hid me take one ostheir canoes and pur-
sue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people, they
mould come back, perhaps, with two or three hundred
ostheir canoes, and devour us by mere multitudes; so
I consented to pursue them by sea; and running to one
os.their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday sollow
me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprized to
sind another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand
and soot, as the Spaniard was, sor the slaughter, and
almost dead with sear, not knowing what the matter
was; sor he had not been able to look up over the side
os the boat, lie was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had
been tied so long, that he had really little lise in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only un-
bound inorder to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him os his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram; which
with the news os'his being delivered, revived h;m, and
he sat up in the boat; but whin Friday came to hear
him speak, and looked in his sace, it would have moved
any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrang
his
his hands, beat his own sace and head, and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It
was a good while besore I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but whefl he came
a little to himsels, he told me that it was his fjfther.
It was not easy sor me to express how it ipoved me,
to see whatextasy and silial asscction had worked in this
poor savage, at the sight os his sather, and os his being
delivered srom death; nor indeed can I describe hals the
extravagancies ot his asscction aster this; sor he went
into the boat, and out os the boat, a great many timesi
when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his sather's head close to his botom,
hals an hour together, to nourish it; he then took his
arms and ancles, which were numbed and stiff with the
binding, and chased, and rubbed them with his hands;
and I perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum
out os my bottle to rub them with, which did them a
great deal os good.
This circumstance put an end to our pursuit os the ca-
noe with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out os sight; and it was happy sor us that we did not;
sor it blew so hard within two hours aster, and besore
they could be gotten a quarter os their way, and conti-
nued blowing so hard all night, and that srom the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their
own coast.
But to return to Friday. He was so busy about his
sather, that I could not sind in my heart to take him off
sor some time; but, aster I thought I could leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I
asked him, is he had given his sather any bread. He
shook his head, and said—' Nonei ugly dog eat all up
sels.'—So I gave him a cake os bread out os a little
pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram sor
himsels, he would not, however, taste it, but carried it to
hi* sather. I had in my pocket, also, two or three
bunches
hunches os raisins; so I gave him a handsul os them sor
his sather. He had no sooner given his sather these rai-
sins, but I saw him come out os the boat, and run away
as is he had been bewitched. He ran at such a rate,
(sor he was the swistest sellow os his seet that ever I
saw ;) I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out os
sight as it were in an instant; and though I called and
hallooed too aster him, it was all one; away he went,
and ina quarter os an hour I saw him come back again
though not so sast as he went; and as he came nearer,
I sound his pace was slacker, because he had something
in his hand.
When he came up to me I sound he had been quite
home sor an earthen jug or pot, to bring his sather some
sresh water;. and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves os bread. The bread he gave me, but the water
he carried to his sather; however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took alittle sup os iti this water revived his sa-
ther more than all the rum or spirits I had given him;
sor he was just sainting with thirst.
When his sather had drank, I called him to know
is there was any water lest; he said, yes i and I bade
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want os it as his sather; and I sent one os the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was,
indeed, very weak, and was reposing himsels upon a
green place, under the shade os a tree, and whose limbs
were also very stiss, and very much swelled with the rude
bandage he had been tied with i when I saw that upon
Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to
him, and gave him a handsul os raisins i he looked up in
my sace with all the tokens os gratitude and thanksul-
ness that could appear in any countenance; but was so
weak notwithstanding he had so exerted himsels in the
sight, that he could not stand up upon his seet; he tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his
ancles were so swelled and so painsul to him; so I bade
him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe
them with rum, as he had done his sather's. I
COCKERS ElHTIOJr OF SEIÆICTNOYELS ,

SUbeb.-nti.drbiiS HnnimeJrh
I observed the poor affectionate creature every two
.minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head about, to see is his sather was in the
same place and posture as he lest him sittingi at length
sinding lie was not to be seen, he started up, and with-
out speaking a word, slew with that swistness to him,
that one could scarce perceive his seet to touch the ground
as he went, but when he came, he only sound he had
laid himsels down to ease his limbs; so Friday came
back to me piesently, and then I spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up, is he could, and lead him
to the boat, and thenjie should carry him to our dwel-
ling, where I would take care os him; but Friday, a
lusty young sellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon
his back, and carried him away to the boat, and s'et
him down sostly upon the side or gunnel os the canoe,
with his seet in the inside os it, and then listed them
<juite in, and set him close to his sather; and presently
stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled
it along the shore saste than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard tooi so he brought
them sase into our creek; and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to setch the other canoe. As he passed me,
I spoke to him, and asked him, whither he went. He
told me—' Go, setch more boat.* So away he went
like the wind, sor sure never man or horse ran like him;
and he had the other canoe in the creek, almost as soou
as I got to it by land, so he wasted me over, and then
went to help our new guests out os the boat, which he
did i but they were neither os them able to walk; so
that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this I set about considering what method
I could take to get these poor creatures to our ha-
bitation; at length a project came into my head, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me, I soon made a kind os hand-barrow to
lay them on; and Friday and I carried them both to-
gether upon it between us i but when we got them to
the outside os our wall or sortisication, we were at a
greater
greater loss than besore; sor it was impossible to get
them over; and I was resolved not to break it down i
so I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about two
hours time, made a very handsome tent, covered with
old sails, and, above that, with boughs os trees; being
in the Ipace without our outward sence, and between
that and the grove osyoung wcod which I had planted i
and here we made two beds, os such things as I had,
viz. os good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it, to
lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought mysels
very rich in subjects; and it was a diverting reslection
which I srequently enjoyed how like a king I looked.
First os all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty; so that I had an undoubted right os dominion:
secondly, my people were persectly subjected; I was
absolute lord and law-giver; they all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, is there
had been occasion sor it, sor mei it was remarkable
too, I had but three subjects, and they were os three
disserent religions; my man Friday was a Protestant,
his sather a Pagan, and a canibal, and the Spaniard a
Papist. However, I allowed liberty os conscience
throughout my dominionsi but this by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them,
I began to think os making some provision sor themi
and the sirst thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a
yearly goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out os my par-
ticular slock, to be killedi then I cut oss the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into smaller pieces, I set Fri-
day to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a
very good dish, I assure you, os slesh and broth, having
put some barley and rice also into the broth; and as I
cooked it without doors (sor I made no sire within my
inner wall) sol carried it all into the new tent; and
having placed a table there sor them,-I sat down and
eat my dinner also with them; and, as well as I could
cheared them and encouraged them, Friday being my
interpreter,
interpreter, especially to his sather, and indeed to the
Spaniard too; sor the Spaniard spoke the language os the
savages pretty well.
Aster we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one os the canoes, and go and setch our
muskets, and other sire arms, which sor want os time,
we had lest upon the place os battle; and the next day
I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies os the
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently
be ossensive; I alto ordered him to bury the horrid re-
mains os their barbarous seast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think os doing
mysels; nay, I could not bear to see them, is I went
that way. All this he punctually persormed, and de-
saced the very appearance os the savages being there,
so that when I went again, I could scarce know where
it was, otherwise than by the corner os the wood point-
ing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; a»d sirst, I set Friday to enquire
os his sather, what he thought os the escape os the sa-
vages in that canoe, and whether he might expect a re-
turn os them, with a power too great sor us to resist.
His sirst opinion was, that the savages in the boat ne-
ver could live out the storm, which blew that night
they went oss, but must os necessity be drowned, or
driven south to those shores, where they were as sure
to be devoured, as they were to be drowned is they
were cast awayi but as to what they would do is they
came sase on shore, he said he knew not; but it was
his opinion, that they were so dreadsully srighted with
the manner os being attacked, the noise, and the sire,
that he believed they would tell their people, they were
all killed by thunder and lightning, and not by the
hand os man; and that the two which appeared (viz.
Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or suries, come
down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all
cry out so in their language to one another; for it waS
impossible
impossible sor them to conceive that a man mould darf,
sire and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without
listing up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right; sor, as I understood since, by
other hands, the savages os that part never attempted
to go over to the island asterwards. They were so ter-
risied with the accounts given by those sour men (sor it
seems they did escape the sea) that they believed, who-
ever went to that enchanted island, would be destroyed
with sire srom the gods.
This however, I knew not, and theresore was under
continual apprehensions sor some time, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, I and all my army; sor as we
were sour os us, I would have ventured upon an hun-
dred os them sairly in the open sield at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing
the scar os their coming wore off, and I began to take
my sormer thoughts os a voyage to the main into consi-
deration; being likewise assured by Friday's sather,
that I might depend upon good usage srom their na-
tion on his account, is I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood, that there were sixteen more os his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace
indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to it
sor necessaries, and indeed sor lisei I asked him all the
particulars os their voyage, and sound they were a Spa-
nish ship, bound srom the Rio de la Plata to the Ha-
vannah, being directed to leave their loading there,
which was chiesly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with; that they
had sive Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took
out os another wreck; that sive os their own men were
drowned when sirst the ship was lost; and that these es-
caped through insinite dangers and hazards, and arrived
almost starved, on the canibal coast, where they expected
to have been devoured every moment.
He
He told ir.s, they had some arms with them, but they
were persectly useless, for that they had neither powder
or ball, the waming os the sea having spoiled all their
powder, except a little which they used at their sirst
landing;, to provide themselves some sood.
I asked him what he thought would become os them
there; and is they had sormed no design os making any
escape. He said, they had many consultations abcvit
it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build
one, or provisions os any kind, their counsels always
ended in tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal srom me, which might tend towards an escape,
and whether, is they were all here, it might net be done.
I told him with sreedom, I seared mostly their trea-
chery and ill usage os me, is I put my lise in their
hands; sor that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the
nature os man; nor did men always square their deal-
ings by the obligations they had received, so much as
they did by the advantages they expected i I told him
it would be very hard that I should be the instrument os
their deliverance, and that they should asterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrisice, what necessity, or
what accident soever, brought him thither; and that I
had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be de-
voured alive, than sall into the merciless claws os the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added,
that otherwise I was persuaded, is they were all here,
we might, with so many hands, biuld a bark large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils south-
ward, or to the islands or Spanish coast northward; but
that is, in requital, they should, when I had put wea-
pons in their hands, carry me by sorce among their own
people, I might be ill used sor my kindness to them,
and my situation become much worse than it was
besore.
He answered with a great deal os candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
Vol. II. 29 F were
were so sensible os it, that he believed they would ab-
hor the thought os using any man unkindly that mould
contribute to their deliverance; and that, is I pleased,
he would go to them with the old man, and discourse
, with them about it, and would return again, and bring
me their answer; that he would make conditions with
them upon their solemn oath, that they would be abso-
lutely under my leading, as their commander and cap-
tain; and that they should swear upon the Holy Sacra-
ments and Gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such
Christian country as I mould agree to, and no other;
art! to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders,
till they were landed sasely in iiich country as I intended,
and that he would bring a contract srom them under
their hands sor that purpose.
He then said, he would sirst swear to me himsels, that
he would never stir srom me as long as he lived, till I
gave him orders; and that he would desend me to the
last drop os blood, is there mould happen the least breach
os saith among his countrymen.
He told me, they were all very civil honest men, and
under the greatest distress imaginable,having neither wea-
pons nor cloaths, nor any sood, but at the mercy and dis-
cretion os the savages; out os all hopes os ever returning
to their own country; and that he was sure, is I would
undertake their relies, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, is possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he had'
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
sels started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other,
that I could not but be very well satissied with it; and,
bv his advice, put off the deliverance os his comrades
sor at least hals a year. The case was thus—
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had pro-
vided, with the assistance os Providence, sor my sup-
port; and he saw evidently what stock os cern and rice
1
I had laid up; which, as it was more than sussicient
sor mysels, so it was not sussicient at least, without good
husbandry, sor my samily, now it was increased to touri
but mucli less would it be sussicient, is'his countrymen,who
were, as he said, sourteen still alive, should come over;
nor could there be sussicient to victual our vessel, is we
should build one, sor a voyage to any os the Christian
colonies os America. So he told me, he thought it
would be more adviseable, to let him and the other two
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could
spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another har-
vest, that we might have a supply os corn sor his coun-
trymen when they should comei sor want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out os one dissiculty into
another. You know, (says he,) the children os Israel,
'though they rejoiced at sirst at their being delivered
'out os Egypt, yet rebelled even against God himsels,
'that delivered them, when they came to want bread in
* the wilderness.'
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as I was satissied with his sidelity. So
we commenced digging, all sour os us, as well as the
wooden tools we were surnished with permitted; and in
about a month's time, by the end os which it was seed
time, we had gotten as much land prepared ar.d trim-
med up as we sowed twenty-two bushels os barley on,
and sixteen jars os rice; which was, in short, all the
seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves
barley sussicient sor our own sood sor the six months
that we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckon-
ing srom the time we set our seed aside sor sowing; sor
it is* not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in
that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sussicient to put us put os sear os the savages, is they
had come, unless their number had been very great, we
went sreely all over the island, wherever we sound oc-
fi calion;
casion; and as here we had our escape or deliverance
upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least sor me,
to have the means os it out os minei to this purpose, I
marked out several trees, which I thought sit sor our
work, and I set Friday and his sather to cutting them.
down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I im-
parted my thoughts on that assair, to oversee and direct
tJieir work. I shewed them with what indesatigable
pains I hast hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about a
dozen large planks os good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-sive feet long, and srom two inches to sour inches
thicki what prodigious labour it took up any one may
imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little
slock os tame goats as .much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday anil the Spaniard gc cut one day
and mysels, with Friday, the next day; sor we took
our turnsi and by tins means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the resti tor whenever we
shot the dam, we iaved the kids, and added them to our
slock. But above all, the leason tor curing the grapes
commg on, I cauied such a prcdig ous qua'i'.ity to be
hung up in the iun, that I believe, had we been at Ali-
cant, where the ra sins ot the iun are cured, we should
have siiled sixty or eighty barrcls; and theie, with our
bread, was a great part os our sood, and very good
living too, I assure you; sor it is an exceeding nou-
rish ng iOod.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it
was not die most plentisul increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;
sor, srom twenty-two bushels ot barley, we brought in
and threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels,
and the like in proportion os the rice; which was store
enough sor our sood to the nexr harvest, though all the
sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, is we
had been ready sor a voyage, it would very plenti-
fully have victualled our ship, to have carried us
to
to any part of the world; that is to fay, os Ame-
rica. When we had thus houfed and secured our
magazine of corn we fell to work to make more wicker .
work; viz. great baskets, in which we kept it; and
the Spaniard was very handy and dextrous at this part,
and often blamed me, that I did not make some things
for defence, of this kind of work; but I faw no need
of it. And now having a full fupply of food for all the
guests expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to
the main, to fee what he could do with thole he left be-
hind him therei I gave him a strict charge in writing,
not to bring any man with him who would not sirst
fwear, in the prefence of himfelf and of the old favage,
that he would no way injure, sight with, or attack, the
perfon he should sind in the island, who was fo kind to
fend for them in order to their deliverance; but that
they would stand by and defend him. against all fuch at-
tempts; and wherever they went, would be entirely
under, and fubjected to his commandi and that
this should be put in writing, and figned with their
hands. How we were to have this done, when I knew
they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was a question
which we never afked.
Under thefe instructions, the Spaniard and the old fa-
vage (the father of Friday) went away in one of the ca-
noes, which they might be laid to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prifoners, to be
devoured by the favages.
I gave each of them a musket with a sirelock on it,^
and about eight charges os powder and ball; charging
them to be very good hufbands of both, and not to ufe
either of them but upon urgent occafions.
This was a cheersul work, being the sirst meafures
ufed by me in view of my deliverance for now. twenty-
feven years and some days. I gave them provisions of
bread, and of dried grapes, fufficient for themfelves for
many days, and fufficient for their countrymen for
about eight days time; and wifhing them a good voy-
age I let them go, agreeing with them about a signal
F 3 they
they should hang out at their return, by which I should
know them again when they came back, at a distance!
besore they came on more.
They went away with a sair gn'.e, on the day that
the moon was at the sull; by my account, in the month
os October; but as to the exact reckoning os days, as-
ter I had once lost it, I could never recover it sgain;
nor had I kept even the number ot years fb punctually
as to be sure that I was right; though, as it proved,
when I asterwards examined my account, I sound I had
kept a true reckoning os years.
It was no less than eight days I waited sor them, when
a strange and unsoreseen accident intei venec", os which.
the like has r.ot, perhaps, been heard os in history. I
was sast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud—
* Master! master! they are come, they are come'.'
I jumped up, and, regardless os danger, went out,
as soon as I could get my cloaths on, through my
Jit tie grove, which, by the way, was by this time
grown to be a very thick woodi I say, regardless os
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my
custom to do; but I was surprised, when turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league
aud a hals distance, standing in sor the shore, with a
shoulder-os-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty sair to bring them ini also I observed
presently, that they did not come srom that side which,
the shore lay on, but srom the southermost end os the
island; upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie
close, scr these were not the people we locked sor, and
that we did not know yet whether they were sriends or
enemies.
In the next place, I went in to setch my perspective,
glass, to see what I could make os them; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top os the hils,
as I used to do when I was apprehensive os any thing,.
and to take my view the plainer without being dis-
covered.
I
I had sc-irce set my soot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a halt distance srom me, S. S. E. but
not above a league and an hals srom the shore. Bv my
observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boar.
I cannot express the consusion I was in, though the
joy os seeing a ship, and one whom I had reason to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-
quentlv triends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet
I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
srom whence they came, bidding me to keep upon my
guard. In the sirst place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could have in that part
ot the seas, since it was not the way to or srom any
pnrt os the world where the English had any trassick;
and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there, as in distress; and that is they were Englhh really,
it was most probable, that they were here upon no good
design; and that I had better continue as I was, than
fall into the hands os thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices os
danger, which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility os its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I believe sew that
have made any observations os things can deny; that
there are certain discoveries os an invisible world, and a
converse os spirits, we cannot doubt; and is the tenden-
cy os them seems to be to warn us os dancer, why should
we not supposetiiey are srom some sriendly agent (whe-
ther Supreme, or inserior and subordinate, is not the
question) and that they are given sor our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice os thls reasonmg; sor had I not been made cau-
tious by this secret admonition, come it srom whence
it would, I had bet!n undone inevitably, and in a sar
worse condition than besore.
I had not kept mysels ion°- in this posture, when I saw
tUe boat draw asar the shore, ai is they looked sor a
creek
creek to thrust in at sor the convenience os landing;
however, as they did not come quite sar enough, they did
not see the little inlet where I sormerly landed my rasts,
but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about hals
a mile srom me, which was a happy circumstance; sor
otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, at
my door, and would have soon beaten me out os my cas-
tle, and perhaps have phmdured me os all I had.
When they were on shore, I was sully satissied they
were Englishmen; at least most os them i one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were
in all eleven men, whereos three os them I sound were
unarmed, and (as I thought) bound i and when the sirst
sour or sive os them were jumped on shore, they took
those three out os the boat as prisoners. One os the
three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures
os intreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind os
extravagance; the other two I could perceive listed up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed,
but not to inch a degree as the sirst. x
I was persectly consounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning os it could be. Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could—' O master!
'you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savag*
'mans.'—-' Why (said I) Friday, do you think they are
• going to eat them then ?'—' Yes (says Friday) they
• will eat them.'—' No, no (said I) Friday, I am asraid
• they will murder them, indeed; but you may be lure
'they will not eat them.'
All this while I had no thought os what the matter
reallv was, but stood trembling with horror at thesight,
expecting every moment when the three prisoners sliould
be killed; nay, once I saw one os the villains listed up
his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one os the poor men; and I expected
to see him sall every moment, at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now sor our Spaniard, and the sa-
rage that was gone with him; or that I had any way
to have come undiscovered within soot os them, that I
might have rescued the three men; sor I saw no sire-
arms they had among themi bus it sell out to my mind
another wav.
Aster I had observed the outrageous usage os the
three men by the insolent stamen, I observed the sellows
run scattering about the land, as is they wanted to see
the countryi I observed also, that the three other men
had liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat down
all three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like
men in despair.
This put me in mind os the sirst time when I
came on shore, and began to look about me; how I
gave mysels over sor lost, how wildly I looked round
me, what dreadsul apprehensions I had, and how I
lodged in the tree all night, sor sear os being devoured
by wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night os the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving os the ship nearer the
land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been
so long nourished and supported; so these three poor de-
solate nun knew nothing how certain os deliverance and
supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
esscctually and really they were in a condition os sasety,
at the time they thought themselves lost, and their case
desperate.
So little do we see besore us in the world, and so much
reason have we to depend cheartully upon the Great
Maker ot the world, that he does not leave his crea-
tures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst cir-
cumstances they have always something to be thanksul
sor, and sometunes are nearer their deliverance than
they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliver-
ance by the very means by which they seem to be brought
to their destruction.
It was just at the time os high-water when the peo-
ple came on more, and while partly they stood parley-
ing with the prisoners they brought, and partly while
they rambled about to see what kind os plate they were
W
in, they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and
the water had ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground.
They had lest two men in the boat, who, as I sound
asterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, scll
asleep; however, one os them waking sooner than the
other, and sinding the boat too sast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed sor the rest who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the more on that side being a sost oozy sand
almost like a quick-sand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per-
haps, the least os all mankind given to sore-thought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one os them say aloud to
another, (calling them oss srom the boat,) 'Why, let
* her alone Jack, can't ye? she'll sloat next tide.* By
which I was sully consirmed in the main enquiry, os
what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept mysels close, not once daring to
stir out os my castle, any sarther than to my place os
observation, near the top os the hill; and very glad I
was, to think how well it was sortisied. I knew it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could b« on
sloat again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might be more at liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, is they had any.
In the mean time I prepared inysels sor a battle, as
besore, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind os enemy than I had at sirst. I
ordered Friday al so, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himsels with arms. I
took mysels two sowling-pieces, and I gave him three
musquets. My sigure, indeed, was very sierce; I had
my sormidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
mentioned, a naked Iword, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said besore, not to have made
any
iny attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat os the day, I sound that they were all
gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were
all kid down to steep. The three poor distressed men,
too anxious sor their condition to get any steep, were
huwever set down under the shelter os a great tree, at
about a quarter os a mile srom me, and, as I thought,
out os sight os any os the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover mysels to them, and
laarn something os their condition. Immediately, I
marched in the sigure above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as sormidable sor his arms as I,
but not making quite so staring a spectre-like sigure as
I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, besore any os them saw me, I called aloud to them
in Spanish—' What are ye, gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
consounded when they saw me, and the uncouth sigure
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to sly srom me,
when I spoke to them in English. 'Gentlemen,' (said
I) 'do not be surprized at me; perhaps you may have
'a sriend near you, when you did not expect it.'—' He
* must be sent directly srom Heaven then,' said one os
them very gravely to me, and pulling oss his hat at the
same time; 'sor our condition is past the help os man.'
* All help is srom Heaven, Sir, (iaid Ii) but can you
* put a stranger in the way how to help you? sor you
* item to me to be in some great distress i I saw you
'when you landed; and when you seemed to make ap-
* plication to the brutes that came with you, I saw one
* ot them list up his sword to kill you.*
The poor man, with tears running down his sace, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned—' Ara
* I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an
* angel ?'—' Be in no scar about that, Sir, (said I,) is
'Gcd had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have
'cemt better cloathed, and armed aster another man-
* nes
* ner than you see me. Pray lay aside your searsi I
1 ama man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you,
'you see; I have one servant only; we have arms and
* ammunition; fell us sreely, can we serve you? What
* is your case?
'Our case, (said he) Sir, is too long to tell you,
* while our murderers are so near; but in short, Sir, I
* was commander os that ship, my men having muti-
* nied against me, they have been hardly prevailed on
* not to murder me; and at last have set me on shore
« in this desolate place, with these two men with me,
* one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expect
'to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
« know not yet what to think os it.
'Where are those brutes, your enemies? (said I,)
'do you know where they are gone ?'—' There they
'are, Sir, (said he, pointing to a thicket os trees ;)
'my heart trembles sor sear they have seen us, and heard
* you speak ;i is. they have, they will certainly mnrder
'us all.'
'Hive they any sire arms? (said I.) He answered
they had only two pieces, and one which they lest in
the boat. 'Well then, (said I) leave the rest to-me.
'I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill
'them all; but shall .we rather take them prisoners?'
He told me there were two desperate villains among
them, that it was farce sase to shew anymercy to; but
is they weie secured, he believed all the rest would re-
turn to their diry. I aIked him which they were? He
told me he could not at that distance descr.be them ; but
he would obev my orders in any thing I would direct.
'Well (laid I) let us retreat out os their vieworhear-
'ing lest they„awake, and we will resolve sarther.' So
they willmglv went back with me, till the woods co-
ves.' us srom them.
'Look you, Sir, (said I) is I venture upon yourde-
* liver.uice, are you willing to make two conditions.
'with iiH.?' He anticipated my proposals, by telling
nic, that bolh he and the ship, is recovered, mould be
wholly
wholly directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and it the ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what part os the world loever I would send
him; and the other two men said the same.
• Well, (iaid I) my conditions are but twoi First,
'That while you stay on this island with me, you will
« not pretend to any authority here; and is I put arms
* into your hands, you will upon all occasions g,ve them
* up tome, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon
« this island, and in the mean time be governed by my
'orders.
'Secondly, That is the ship is or may be recovered,
* you will carry me and my man to England passage
« sree.*
He gave all the assurance that the invention and saith
os a man could devise, that he would comply with these
most reasonable demands, and besides would owe his lise
to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as
he lived.
'Well then (said I) here are three muskets sor you
* with powder and balli tell me next what you think
-* is proper to be done?' He shewed all the testimony
os his gratitude that he was able; but offered to be
wholly guided by me. I told him, I thought it was
hard venturing any thing, but the best method I could
think os, was to sire upon them at once, as they lay;
and is any were not killed at the sirst volley, and ossered
to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon God's providence to direct the soot.
He said, veiy modestly, that he was loth to kill them,
is he could help it; but that, those two were incorrigi-
ble villains, and had been the authors os all the mutiny
in the ship; and is they escaped, we mould be undone
still, sor they would go on board, and bring the whole
ship's company, aud destroy us all. 'Well, then (said
I) necessity legitimates my advice; sor it is theonly way
'to save our lives.' However, seeing him stul cauti-
ous os shedding blood, I told hun, they should go them-
selves, and manage as they sound convenient.
Vol. II. 29 G In
In the middle os this discourse we heard some os them
swake, and soon aster we saw two os them on their seet:
I asked him, is either os them were the men, who he tad
said were the heads os the mutiny. He said, ' No.'—
'Well then,' laid I, ' you may lei them escape, and
'Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose
'to save themselves i now, is the rest escape you, it is
'your sault."
Animated with this, he took the musleet I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each man a piece in his handi the
two men who were with him going sirst, made some
noise, at which one os the seamen who was awake, turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest:
but it was too late then; sor the moment he cried out,
they sired; I mean the two men, tlie captain wisely re-
serving his own piece. They had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew, that one os them was killed
'on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but nut
being dead, he started up upon his seet, and called eagerly
sor help to the other; but the captain stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help; he should call
upon God to sorgive his villainy; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock os his musket, so that
he never spoke mure; there were three more in the
«c7]ipany, and one os them was also slightly wounded.
By this time I was come; and when they saw their,
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged sor
mercyi the captain told them he would spare their
lives, is they would give him any assurance os theiiab-
hoiTcr.cc os the treachery they had been guilty os, and
would swear to be saithsul to him in recovering the siiip,
and asterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, srom
whence they came. They gave him all the protesta-
tions os their sincerity that could be desired, and he was
willing to believe them and spare their lives i which I
was not against; only I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and soot while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday and the captain's'
mate
I»i3te to tlie boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the cars and sail, which they did; and, by and by,
three straggling men, that were, (happily sor them)
parted srom the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
sired; and seeing their captain, who besore was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound also, by which means our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should enquire
into one another's circumstancesi I began sirst, and
told him my whole history; which he heard with an
attention even to amazement; and particularly at the
wondersul manner os my being surnished with provisions
and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
Collection os wonders, it affected him deeply; but when
lie reslected srom thence upon himsels, and how I seemed
to have been preserved thereon purpose to save his lise,
the tears ran down his sace, and he could not speak a
word more.
Aster this communication was at an end, I conducted
him, and his two men, into my aparlment, leading them
in just where I came out, viz. at the top os the house;
where I resreshed them with such provisions as" I had,
and shewed them all the contrivances I had made, dur-
ing my long inhabiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was persectly-
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my sor-
tisication; and how persectly I had concealed my re-
treat with a grove ot trees, which, having now been
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much
taster than in England, was become a little wood, and
ib thick, that it was unpayable in any part os it, but at
that one side, where I had reserved my little winding
paslr.ge into iti this I told him was my castle, and my
residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as most
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and
I would shew him that too another time; but at pre-
sent our business was to consider, how to recover the
(hipi he agreed with me as to that; but told me, he
was persectly at a loss what measures to take; sor that
G 1 Uier«
there were still fix-a.id twenty hands on board, whn
having entered into a curtUl confpiracy, by which they
huJ all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hard-
ened in it now by defperation; and would carry it on,
knowing that if they were reduced, they mould be
brought to the gillows as foon as they came to
England, or to any of the English colonies; and that
therefore there would be no attacking them with ib fmall
a number as we weie.
I mufed for fome time upon what he had faid, and
found it was a very rational conclufion, and that there-
sore ibmething was to be refolved on very fpeedily, as
well to draw the men on board into lome fnare for their
furprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
stroying usi upon this it prefently occurred to me, that
in a little wmile, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat to lee for them;
and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and
be too strong lor us. This, he allowed, was rational.
Upon this I told him the sirst thing we had to do was
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, fo that
they might not carry her osf; and, taking every thing
out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be sit to
fwim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left out of her, and whatever elfe we found
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few bifcuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
lump of fugar in a piece of canvas i (the lugar was sive
or six pounds) all which was very welcome to me, efpe-
cially the brandy and fugar, of which I had none left for
many years.
When we had carried all thefe things on shore, (the
oars, mast, rail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
away before) we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet
f hey could not carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts, that we
fouid be capable of recovering the ship; but my view
was
Xvrts, that is they went away without the boat, I diet not
much question to make her sit again to cany us to the
leeward Islands, and call upon our sriends the Spaniards
in my way4, sor I h;ul them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
sirst by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the
beach, so high, that the tide would not sloat her off at
high-water-mark; and, besides, had broken a hole in
her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, and were
sat down musing what we should do, we heard the ship
sire a gun, and saw her make a wast with her ancient,
as a signal sor the boat to come on beard; but no beat
stirred; and they sired several times, making other sig-
nals sor the boat.
At last, when all their signals and !irings proved sruit-
less, and thev sound the beat did not stir, we saw them,
(by the help os our glasses) heist another boat out,'and
row towards the shore ; and we sound, as they approach-
ed, that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had sire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almcst two leagues srom the shore,
v?e had a suls view os them as they came, and a plain
sight os the men, even os their saces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east os the other boat, they
rewed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the others had landed, and where the boat lay.
J5y this means, I say, we had a full view os them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters os all the
men in the boat; os whom, he said, there were three
verv honest sellows, who he was sure were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and
srighted.
But that sor the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chies ossicer among them, and all the rest, they were
as outrageous as any os the ship's crew; and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprize i and ter-
ribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too power-
sul tor us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
Q 1 cumsiances
cumstances were past the operations os sear i that seems;
almost every condition that could be was better than
that we were suppi.sed to be in, we ought to expect that
the consequence, whether death or lise, would be sure
to be a deliverance. I asleed him, what he thought os
the circumstances os my lise; and whether a deliveran "e
was not worth venturing sor. 'And where, Sir,'
said I, ' is your belies os my being preserved here on
'purpose to save your lise, which elevated you a little
• while ai'0? For my part, there seems to be but one
'thingamiss mall the prospect os it.'—' What's that,*
said he. 'Why,' said I, ' 'tis that, as you say there
'are three or tour honest sellows among them, which
i should be sparedi had they been all os the wicked
'part os the crew, I should have thought God's pro-
« vidence had singled them out to deliver them into your
* Uands; sor depend upon it, every man os them that
'conies a- shore, are our own, and mall die or live as they
f behave to us.*
As I lpoke this with a raised voice, and chearsul
countenance, I sound it greatly encouraged him; so we
set vigorously to our business. We.had, upon the sirst
appearance os the boat's coming srom the ship, consi-
dered os separating our prisoners, and had, indeed, se-
cured them effectually.
Two or them, oi whom the captain was less asihred
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one os the three
(deiivered men) to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out os danger os being heard ordiseovered,
or 01 si 'ding their way out ot the woods, is they could
have del.vcied themselves. Here they lest them bound,
but '4'..ve them provisions, *nd promised them, is they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that is they attempted their escape,
they shculo be put to death without mercy. They pro-
;niitd iaithiully to bear their consinement with patience,
and were very thanksul, that they had inch good usage
as to have provisions and a light lest them; sor Friday
gave thew candles (sueb. as we made ourselves)
for their comsort; and they did not know but that he
stood cc-ntinel over them at the entrance.
The ether prisoners had better usage i two os them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not
sree to trust them; but the other two were 'taken into
my service, upon their captain's recommendation, and
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us;
so with them, and the three honest men, we were seven
men well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said there were three or sour
honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lav, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up aster them, which I was
glad to ice; ior I was asraid they would rather have lest
the boat at an anchor, some distance srom the shore, with
some hands in her to guard her; and so we should not
be abb to sieze the boat.
Being on shore, they all immediately ran to the other
boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great
surprize, to sind her stripped, as above, os all that was in
her; and a great hole in her bottom.
Aster they had muled some time on this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might,
to try is they could make their companions heari but
all was to' no purpose; they then placed themselves all
close in a ring, and sired a volley os their small arms,
v-hich indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring; but it was all one i those in the cave, we were
sore could not hear; and those in our keeping, though
they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to
them.
They were so astonished at the surprize os this, that,
as they told us asterwaros, they resolved to go al,l on board
again to their ship, and let the rest know that the men.
were ail murdered, and 'he long-boat staved; accord-
ingly, they immediately launched the boat agam, and,
rot all os them on board.
The
The captain was terribly amazed and even consounded
at this, believing they would goon board the strip again,
and set sail, giving their comrades tor lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we
should have recovered i but he was quickly as mucli
srighted the other way.
They had not been long put oss with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but with,
this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they
consulted together upon; viz. to leave three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look sor their companions,
This was a great disappointment to us; sor now we
were at a lots what to doi sor our seizing thole seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us, is we let
the boat escape, because they would then row away to
the ship, and ihe rest os them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be
lost.
However, we had ho remedy but to wait and see
what the issue os things might presenti the seven men
came on shore and the three who remained in the
boat, put her off to a good distance srom the shore, and
came to an anchor to wait sor them; so that it was
impossible sor us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, march-
ing towards the top os the little hill, under which my
habitation lay; and we could lee them plainly, though
they could not perceive us i we could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have sired at them; or that they would have
gone sarther off, that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow os the hill,
where they could see a great way in the valley and
woods which lay towards the north-east part, and where
the istand lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they
were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture sar
srom the shore, nor sar srom one another, they iitt down
together underatree, to consideros iti had they thought
fit
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party os
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too sull os apprehensions os danger to venture to go
to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was
they had to sear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
tiiis consultation os theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
all sire a volley again, to endeavour to make their scl-
lows hear, and that we ihould all sally upon them just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they would certainly yield, and we mould have them
without bloodshed; I liked the proposal, provided it
was done while we were near enough to come up to
them, besore they could load their pieces again.
But tins event did not happen, and we lay still along
time, very irresolute what course to take; at length I
told them there would be nothing to be done, in my opi-
nion till night; and then, is they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might sind a way to get between them
and the shcre, and so might use some stratagem with
those in the boat to quit her.
We waited a great while, though very impatient, sor
their removing, and were very uneasy; when, aster long
consultations, we saw them all start up and march down
towards the sea. It seems, they had such dreadful ap-
prehensions upon them os the danger os the place, that
they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their
companions over sor lost, and so go on with their in-
tended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be as it really was; that they had given
over their search, and were sor going back againi and
the captain, as loon as I tokl him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions os it; but I presently
thought os a stratagem to setch them back agaia, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
Ravages came on siiore when Friday was rescued; aud
as
as Soon as they came to a little rhing ground, at about
hals a mile distance, I bad them halloo as loud as they
could, and wait till they sound the seamen heard them;
that as Coon as ever they heard the seamen answer them
they should return it again, and then keeping out os
sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as sar into the island, and among
the woods, as possible; and then wheel about again to
me, by iuch ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, ani
answering,.ran along the more westward, towards the
Voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where the water being up, they could not'get
over, and called sor the boat to come up, and set them
over, as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and
as it were in a harbour within the land, they took one
ot the three men out os her to go along with them, and
kit only two in the boat, having sastened her to the
stump os a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished sor; and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I
took the re;r with me, and crossing the creek out os their
sight, we surprised the two men besore they were aware,
one os them lying on more, and the other being in the
boat; the fellow on shore was between sleeping aud
waking, and going to start tip, the captam who wa*
soremost, ran in upon him, and knocked hun down, and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to make a single
man yield, when he saw sive men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems,
oie os the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny
as the reft os the crew, and theresore was easiiy per-
suaded, not only to yield, but asterwards to join very
sincercly with m.
In the mean time, Friday and the.captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, srom one hill to
another, and srom one wood to another, till they not
only heartily tired them, but lest them where they were
very sore they could not reach back to the boat besore
it was dark; and indeed they were heartily tired them .
stives also by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch sor them in
the dark, and so to sall upon them, to make sore
work with them.
It was several hours aster Friday came back to me,
besore they came back to their boat; and we could hear
the soremost os them, long besore they came quite up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they
were, and not being able to come any saster, which was
very welcome news to us.
At length they, came up to the boat; but it is im-
possible to expreis their consusion, when they sound the
boat sast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and
their two men gone; we cculd hear them call to each
other in a most lamentable mancer, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island ; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they soould all be mur7
dered; or else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured.
They haliooed again, and called their two comrades
by tlrso- names a great many times, but no answer.
Aster some time, we could see them, by the little light
there whs, run about, wringing their hands, like men in
despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down
in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore and
walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men woidd sain have had me given them leave to
sall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill
p.s sew os them as I could; and especially I was unwil-
ling to hazard the killing any os our men, knowing thq
other
other were very well armedi I resolved to wait to see is
they did not separate; and theresore, to make sure os
them, I drew my ambul'cacie nearer; and ordered Fri-
day and the captain to creep upon their hands and
scet, as close to the ground as they could, t at they
might not be discovered, and get as near them as they
could potsibly, besore they osscred to sire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader ot the mu-
tiny, and ha I now shewn himscls the most dejected and
dispirited os all the rest, came walking towards them
with two more os their crew; the captain was so eager,
at having the principal rogue so much in his power, that
he could hardly have patience so let him come so near as
to be sure os hun i sor they only heard his tongue be-
sore i but when they came nearer, the captain and Fri-
day, starting upon their seet, let slyatthem.
The boatswain was killed upon tiie spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and scll just_ by him, though
he did not die till an hour or two aster, and the third ran
sor it.
At the noise os the sire, I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. mysels
generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-general; the cap-
tain and his two men; and the three prisoners ot war,
whom lie had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they
could not see cur number; and I made tlie man they
had lest in the boat, who was now one os us, to call
them by name, to try is I could bring them to a parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms; which sell
out just as \ re desiredi sor indeed it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing
to capitulate i he, theresore, called out as loud as he
could, to one os them, ' Tom Smith, Tom Smith !*
Tom Smith answered immediately, ' Who's that >
'Robinson?' For it seems he knew his voice. The
other answered, ' Ay, ay ; sor God's sake, Tom Smith,
'throw down your arms, and yield, or you are all dead
* men this moment.' « Who
'Who must we yield to? Where are they?' says
Smith again. 'Here they are,' lays he; ' here is' our
'captain and sifty men with him, have been hunting
'you these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will
'Fry, is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and is you do
'not yitld, you are all lost.'
'Will they give us quarter then?' savs Tom Smith,
'and we will yield.'—' I'11 go and ask, is you promise
« to yield,' says Robinson. So he asked the captain,
and the captam himsels then called out—' You, Smith,
'you know my voice; is you lay down your arms im-
'mediately and submit, you mall have your lives, all
« but Will Atkins.'
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, ' sor Ged's sake,
• captain, give me quarteri What have I done? They
'have been all as bad as I!' which, by the way was
not true neither; sor it seems this Will Atkins was the
sirst man that laid hold os the captain, when they sirst
mutinied, and used him barbarously in tying his hands,
and using the most horrid language. However, the
captain told him that he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which he,
meant me, sor they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great army os sisty men, which, particularly with those
three, were all but eight, came up and sie/.ed upon them
all, and upon their boat, only that I kept mysels and
one more out os sight, sorTeasons os state.
Our next business was to repair the beat, and to think
os seizing the ship; and as sor the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villainy os their practices with him, and at
length upon the sarther wickedness os their design; and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They ail appeared very penitent, and begged hard sor
their lives. As'sor that, he told them they were none
Vol. II. 29. H °*
os his prisoners, but the commander's os the island;
that they thought they had set him en shore in a barren,
uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that the island was inhabited, and that the go-
vernor was an Englishman ; that he might hang them all
there is he pleased ; but as he had given them all quarter,
he supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt
with there, as justice required, except Atkins, whom he
was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare sor
death, sor that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a siction os his own, yet it had
its desired essect. Atkins scll upon his knees to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor sor his lise;
and all the rest begged os him, sor God's sake, that they
might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time os our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these sellows in, to be hearty in getting potses-
sion os the ship; so I retired in the dark srom them, that
they might not see what kind os a governor they had,
and called the captain to me. When I called, as at a
good distance, one os the men was ordered to speak
apain, and say to the captain—" Captain, the com-
"mander calls sor you i" and presently the captain re-
plied—" Tell his excellency I am just coming." This
more persectly amused them; and they all believed, that
the commander was just by with his sisty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my pro-
ject sor seizing the ship, which he liked wondersully
well; and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure os success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, aiid that he should go and take Atkins, and two
more os the worst ot them, and send them pinioned to
the cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on shore with
the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and
•ft
it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in their
condition.
The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, os
which I have given a sull descriptioni and as it was
scnced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them,
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted
or not to go on board and surprize the ship. He talked
to them os the injury done him, os the condition they
were brought to; and that though the governor had
given them quarter sor their lives, as to the present
action, yet that is they were sent to England, they
would all be hanged in chains to be sure; but that
is they would join in such an attempt as to recover the
ship, lie would have the governor's engagement sor
their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they sell
down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with
the deepest imprecations, that they would be saithsul to
him to the hist drop, and that they should owe their lives
to him, and would go with him all over the world;
that they would own him sora sather to them as long as
they lived.
"Well," says the captain, " I must go and tell the
"governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
"him to consent to it." So he brought mean account
os the temper he sound them in; and that he verily be-
lieved they would be saithsul.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should po back again, and chuse out sive os them, and tell
them, that they mould fee that they did not want men;
but he would take out those sive to be his assistants, and
that the governor would keep the other two, and the
three that were sent prisoners to the castle, (my cave)
as hostages, sor the sidelity os those sive i and that is tht y
H z provei
proved unsaithful in the execution, the sive hostages should
be hanged in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the go-
vernor was in earnest ; however, they had no way lest
them but to accept it; and it was now the business os
the prisoners, as much as os the captain, to persuade the
other sive to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered sor the expedition.
I. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the
two prisoners os the sirst gang, to whom, having their
characters srom the captain, I had given their liberty,
and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two, whom
I kept till now in my bower pinioned; but, upon the
captain's motion, had released. 4.. These sive re-
leased at last. So that they were twelve in all, besides
sive we kept prisoners in the cave sor hostages.
I asked the captain is he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; scr, as sor me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper sor us to stir,
having seven men left behind; and it was employment
enough sor us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with victuals.
As to the sive in the cave, I resolved to keep them sast;
but Fridav went twice a-day to them, to supply them
with necessaries; and I made the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.
When I mewed mvsels to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, I was the person, the
governor had ordered to look aster them, and that it was
the governor's pleasure they should nos stir any where
but by my direction; that is they did, they mould be
sctched into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as
we never suffered tnem to see me as governor, so I now
appeared as another person, and spoke os the governor,
the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all oc-
caituns.
The captain now had no dissiculty besore him, but to
surnish his two boats, stop the bread) os one, and man
them.
them. He made his passenger captain os one.wjth sour
other men; and himsels, his mate, and sive more, went
in the other; and they contrived, their business very well;
sor they came up, to the soip about midnight. As soon
as they came within call os the ship, he made Robinson
hail them, and tell them he had brought off the men and
the boat, but that it was a long time besore they had
sound them; and the likei holding them in chat, till
they came to the ship's side; when the captain and the
mate entering sirst with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end
os their musquets, being very saithsully seconded by their
men; they secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter-decks, and began to sasten the hatches, to
keep them down who were below, when the other boat,
and their men, entering at the sore-chains, secured the
sore-castle os the ship, and the skuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men they sound there
prisoners.
When this was done, and al] sase upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate with three men to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay,
and having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and with
two men and aboy, had gotten sire-arms in their hands;
and when the mate with a crow split open the door, the
new captain and his men sired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musquet-ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more os the men, but killed
nobody.
The mate calling sor help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head, the .bullets en-
tering at his mouth, and came out again behind one os
his ears; so that he never spoke a word; upon which the
rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without
any more lives lost.
As soon as the soip was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be sired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice os his iuccess; winch
,,Hj y°"-
you may be iure I was very glad to hear, having sat
watching upon the shore sor it tisl near two ot' the
clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, Ilaid me down;
and it having been a day ot great satigue to me, I slept
very sound, till I was something surprized with the noise
os a gun; and presently starting u,.-, I heard a man call
me by the name os " Governor! Governor!" and pre-
sently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing up to
the top os the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the
ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear sriend
"and deliverer," says he, " there's your ship, sor she
"is a:! yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her."
I cast my eyes to the ship, and there see rode a little
more than hals a mile os the more; sor they had weighed
her anchor as soon as they were masters os her; and the
weather being sair, had brought her to an anchor just
against the mouth os a little creek; and the tide being
up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near thq
place where I sirst landed my raits, and so landed
just at my door.
I was, at sirst, ready to sink down with the surprize;
sor I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At sirst, sor
some time, I was not able to answer one word; but as
he had taken me in his arms, I held sast by him, or I
mould have sallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprize, and immediately took a,
bottle out os his pocket, and gave me a dram os cordial,
which he had brought on purpose sor me. Aster I had
drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it
brought rr.e to mysels, yet it was a good while besore I
could speak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an extasy
as I, only not under any surprize as I was; and he said
a thousand kind tender things to me, to compose and
bring me to mysels; but such war, the Hood os joy in my
breast, that it put all my spirits into consusioni at last it
3 broke,
brcke into tears, and in a little while aster11 recovered
my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deli-
verer; and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent srom Heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain os won-
ders; that such things as these were the testimonies we
had os a secret hand os Providence governing the world,
and an evidence, that the eyes os an Insinite Power could,
search into the remotest corner os the world, and send help
to the miserable whenever he pleased.
I sorgot not to list up my heart in thanksulness to
Heaven"i and what heart could sorbear to bless Hun,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided sor
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition,
but srom whom every deliverance must always be ac-
knowledged to proceed!
When we had talked some time, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little resreshments, such as the
ship assorded, and such as the wretches, who had beeii
so long his masters, had not plundered him os. Upor
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring
the things ashore that were sor the governor; and indeed
it was a present, as is I had been one, not that was to
be carried along with them, but as is I had been
to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go
without me.
First, he had brought me a cafe os bottles sull os ex-
cellent cordial waters, six large bottles os Madeira wine,
(the bottles held two quarts a-piece ;).two Founds of
excellent tobacco, twelve good pieces os the (hip's bees,
and six pieces os pork with a bag os peas, and about an
hundred weight os biscuit.
He brought me also a box os sugar, a box os slour,
a bag sull os lemons, and two bottles os _ lime-juice; and
abundance os other things; but besides' these, and what
was a thousand times more usesul to me, he brought me
six clean new shii ts, six very good neckcloth*, two pair ot
gloves, one pair os shoes, a hat, ttid one pair ot stock-
ings, and a very good suit os cloatlies os his own, whi^Is
had been worn but very lktle; in a word, hi cloathed
me srom head to soot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as anyone
may imagine, to, one in my circumstances; but never
was any thing in the world os that kind so unpleasant,
aukward, and uneasy, as it was to meto wear such cloaths
at their sirst putting on.
Aster these ceremonies were past, and aster all these
good things were brought into my little apartment, we
began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; sor it was worth considering whether we might
Venture to take them away with us or no, especially two
os them, whom we knew to be incorrigible jnd resrac-
tory to the last degree; and the captain said, he knew
they were such 1 ogues, that there was no obligiiig them;
and is he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malesactors, to be delivered over to justice at the sirst
English colony he could come at. And I sound that
the captain himsels was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that is he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke us, to make it
their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. "I ihou'kl be very glad os that," says the cap-
tain, "with all my heart,*'
"Well," said I, "I will send sor them, and talk
"with them sor you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, sor they were now discharged, their com-
rades having persormed their prorr.iie; I say, I caused
'them so go to the cave, and bring up the sive men, pini-
oned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there
till I came.
Aster some tim;, I went thither dreiTcd in my new ha-
bit; and now I was called governor agiin. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought besore me, when I told them I had had a sull ac-
count os their villainous behaviour to the captain, and
how they had run away with the ship, and were prepar-
ing to commit sarther robberies; but that Providence
i hU
had suffered them *to be ensnared in their own way, and*
that they were sallen into the pit which they haddigged
sor others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might
see bye and bye, that their new captain had receivsd the
reward os his villainy, sor that they might see him
hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I mould not execute them as pirates taken in
the sact,, as by my commission they could not doubt I
had authority to do.
One os them answered in the name os the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them, I knev»
not what mercy to Ihew them; sor, as sor mysels, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go sor England i and
as for the captain, he could not cany them to England,
other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried sor mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence os
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows; ib
that I could not tell which was best sor them, unless
they had a mind to take their sate in the island; is they
desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave iti
I had some inclination to give them their lives, it they
thought they could shist on shore. They seemed very
thanksul sor it; said they would much rather venture
to stay there, than to be carried to England to be
hanged; so I lest them on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some dissicultv
os.it, as is he durst not leave them therei upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him,
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seemg I
had offered so much savour, I would be as good as my
word; and that is he did not think sit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty as I sound them; and is he
did not like that, he might take them again, is he could
eatch them."' Vpoa
Upon this they appeared veiy thanksul, and I accord-
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some sire-arms, some ammunition, nn.1 Come direc-
tions how they mould live very well, it they thought sit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the soip; but
told the captain, that I would stay that night to pre-
pare my things, and desired him to go on board in the
mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and lend the
boat on soore the next day tor me; ordering him in the
mean time to cause the new captain who was killed,
to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might
sce him.
When the captain was gone, 1 sent sor the men up to
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with
them os their circumstancesi I told them, I thought
they had made a right choice; that is the captain car-
ried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
shewed them their captain hanging at the yard-arm
os the ship, and told them they had nothing less to
expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story os my
living there, and put them into the way os making it
easy to them; accordingly I gave them the whole his-
tory os the place, and os my coming to it; shewed them
my sortisications, the way I made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my grapes; and, in Æ word, all that was
necessary to make them easy; I told them the story also
os the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected; sor
whom I lest a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves.
I lest them my sire-arms; viz. sive muskets, three
sowling-pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel
os powder lest, sor aster the sirst year or two I used but
little, and wasted none. I gave them a description os the
wny I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
satten them, to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part os mv own story;
and
and told them, I would prevail with the captain to leave
them two barrels os gun-powder more, and some garden
feed which I told them I would have been very glad os;
also I gave them the bag os peas which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be lure to sow and in-
crease them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two os the sive men came swimming to the ship's
side, and, maleing a most lamentable complaint os the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, sor God's
sake, sor they mould be murdered; and begged the cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged them im-
mediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me ; but aster some disssiculty, and aster their so-
lemn promises os amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time aster soundly whipped
and pickled; aster which they proved very honest
and quiet sellows.
Some time aster this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men?
to which the captain, at my interceilion, caused their
chests and cloaths to be added; which they took, and
were very thanksul sori' I also encouraged them, by tel-
ling them, that is it lay in my way to send a vessel t;i
take them in, I would not sorget them.
When I took leave os this island, I carried on board,
sor reliques, the, great goat's-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one os my parrots; also I sorgot not to
take tlie money I sormerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless, that is was grown rusty, or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass sor silver, till it had been
a little rubbed and handled; and also the money I sound
in the wreck os the Spanish ship.
And thus I lest the island, the nineteenth os Decem-
ber, as I sound by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
astef I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, t4#
months,
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
fecond captivity the fame day of the month that I sirst
made my efcape in the Barco-longo, srom among the
Moors ot Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 16S7, having been
thirtv and sive years abfent.
When I arrived in England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world, as is I had never been known
there; my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had
.left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had
great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the
fecond time, and very low in circumstances. I made
her eafy as to what she owed me, assuring her, I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithiulnels to me, I relieved her
as my little stock would afford, which at that time
would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindnefs to
me; nor did I forget her, when I had fufficient to help
her, as fnail be obierved in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but mv fa-
ther was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct;
except that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given ever for dead, there had been no provision made
for me; fo that, in a word, T found nothing to relieve or
assist me; and that little money I had, would not do much
for me as to fettling in the world.
I met with one piece of gra' itude, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
fhip, whom I had fo happily delivered, and by the fame
means faved the fnip and cargo, having given a very fa-
vourable account to the owners, of the manner in which
1 had laved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited
me to meet them, and some other merchants concerned,
and all together made me a very handsome compliment
upon that lubject, and a prefent of almost two hundred
pounds sterlinii>
Cut
But after making several reslections upon the circum-
stances os my lise, and how little way this would go to-
ward settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lit
bon, and see is I might not come by some insormation
os the state ot my plantation in the Brazils, and what
was become os my partner, who I had reason to suppose
had some years given me over sor dead.
With this view I tcok shipping sor Lisbon, where I
arrived in April sollowing; my man Friday accompany-
ing me very honestly in all these rumblings, and proving
a most saithsul servant on all occasions.
When I arrived at Lisbon, I sound out by enquiry,
and to my particular satissaction, my old sriend the cap-
tain ot the ship who sirst took me up at sea, oss the shore
os Asrica; he was now grown old, and had lest oss the
sea, having put his son, who was sar srom a young man,
into h s ship; and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly
knew him; but I soon brought mysels to his remem-
brance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions os our old acquaint-
ance, I enquired, you may be sure, aster my plantation,
and my partner; the old man told me, he had not been
in the Brazils sor about nine years; but that he could
assure me, that when he came away, my partner was
living, but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance os my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I would have a very good
account os the improvement os the plantation; sor that,
upon the general belies os my being, cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account os the
produce os my part os the plantation to the Procurator
Fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case I never Came
to claim it,Vsne third to the king, and two thirds to the
monastery os St. Augustine, to be expended sor the bene-
sit os the poor, and sor the conversion os the Indians to
the Catholic saith; but that is I appeared, or «ny one
sor me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored;
only that the improvement, or annual production, being
Vol. II. 29. I distributed
distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored i
but he allured me, that the steward ot the king's re-
venue, (itom lands) and the providoi e, or steward os the
monastery, bid taken great care all along, that the in-
cumbent, ihat is to say, my partner, gave every year a
saithsul account os the produce, os which t!ay received
dulv my moiety.
• 1 asked him, is he knew to what height os improve-
ment he hud brought the plantation; and whether he
thought it might be worth looking aster; or whether,
on rr,y goin'r thither, I mould meet with no obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one hals os it; and that, to the best os his remembrance,
he had heard, that the king's third os my part, which
was, it seems, granted away to some ether monastery,
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred
moidoris a year; that, as to my being restored to a
quiet possession os it, there was no question to be made
os that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and
my name being alio enrolled in the register os the coun-
try. Also he told rr.e, that the survivors os my two
trustees were very sair, honest people, and very wealthy;
and he believed I would not war.t their assistance sor
putting me in potsession, but would sind a very con-
siderable sum os money in their hands, sor my ac-
count, being the protlv.ee ot the sarm while their la-
thers held the trust, and besore it was given up, a*
above, which, as he remembered, was about twelve
years.
I shewed mysels a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and enquired os the old captain, how it came
to pass, that the trustees should thus dispose os my es-
sccts, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portugueze captain, my univer-
se! heir, &c.
lit told me, that was true; but that, as there wat
110 proos os my being dead, lie could not act as execu-
tor, until some certain acccun; should come os my death,
and that, besides, he was nor willing to intermeddls
with a thing so remote; that it was true, he had regis-
tered my will, and put in his claim; and could he have
given any account os my being dead or alive, lie would
have acted by procuration, and taken possession os
the ingenio, (Ib they called the sugar-house) and
had given his son, who was now at the Brazils, or-
ders to do it.
"But," says the old man, " I have one piece osnews
"to tell you; which, perhaps, may not be sb acceptable
"to you as the rest; and that is, that believmg you
"were lost, and all the world believing so also, your,
"partner and trustees did offer to account to me in
"your name, sor six or eight os the sirst years prosits,
'" which I received; but their being at that time great
"disbursements sor increasing the works, buildmg an
"ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near
"so much as asterwards it produced. . However," says
the old man, " I shall give you a true account os
"what I have received in all, and how I have dis-
"poied os it."
Aster a sew days sarther conserence with this ancient
sriend, he brought me an account os the six sirst years in-
come os my plantation, signed by my partner, and the
merchants trustees, being always delivered in goods;
viz. tobacco in rolls, and sugar in chests, besides, rum,
melaffes, &c. which is the consequence os a sugar-work;
and I sound by this account, that ever)' year the income
considerably increased ; but the disbursement being large,
the sum at sirst was small; however, the old man let me
see, that he was debtor to me sour hundred and seventy
moidores os gold, besides sixty chests os siigar, and
sisteen double rolls os tobacco, which were lost in
his ship, he having been shipwrecked coining home
to Lisbon, about eleven years aster my leaving the
place. -
The good man ther. began to complain os his missor-
J 2 tunes,
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make ufe of my
money to recover his losl'es, and buy him a share in a
new ship. "However, my old friend," fays he,
"you mall \ not want a fupply in your necessity;
"and as soon as my fon returns, you shall be fully
"fatissied."
Upon this he took out an old pouch, and gave me two
hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and taking the
writings of his title to the ship which his son was gone
to the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-part owner,
and liis fon another, he put them both in my hands for
fecurity of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindnefs
of the poor man, to be able to bear this; and remem-
bering what he had done for me; how he had taken me
up at iea, and how generously he had ufed me on all oc-
cafions, and particularly, how sincere a sriend he was to .
me, I could hardly retrain weeping at what he faidi I
therefore sirst afked him, if his circumstances admitted
him to fpare ib much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him. He told me he could not fay but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my mo-
ney, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man faid was full of affection,
and I could hardly retrain from tears while he spoke.
In short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called
for a pen and ink to give him a receipt sor them ; then
I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had pof-
fession os the plantation, I would return the other to him
alfo, as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as to the bill
of fale of.his part in his ion's fhip, I would not take it
by any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found
he was honest. enough to pay me; and if I did not, but
came to receive what he gave me reafon to expect, I would
never have a penny more srom him.
When this was pasted, the old man began to ask me
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to
the plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it
myselfi he sb,id I might do so if I pleafed; but that if I
did
did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately appropriate the prosits to my usei and as
there were ships in the river os Lisbon, just ready to go
away to Brazil* he made me enter my name in a public
register, with his assidavit, assirming, upon oath that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took up
the land sor planting the laid plantation at sirst.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation assixed, he directed me to lend it with a letter os
his writing, to a merchant os his acquaintance at the
place; and then proposed my staying with him till an
account came os the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; sor in less than seven
months I received a large packet srom the survivors os
my trustees, the merchants, sor whose account I went to
sea, in which were the sollowing particular letters and
papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current os the produce
os my sarm, or plantation, srom the year when their sa-
thers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, beirig
sor six years; the balance appeared to be 1 174, moidores
in my savour.
Secondly, There was the account os sour years more
while they kept the essects in their hands, besore the go*
vernment claimed the administration, as being the essects
os a person not to be sound, winch they call civil death;
and the balance os this, the value os the plantation, in-
creasing, amounted to cruiiadoes which made three thou-
sand two hundred and sorty one moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior os the Augustines ac-
count, who had received the prosits sor above sourteen,
years; but not being able to account sor what was dis-
posed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had Kji
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged tq
niy account, AS to the king's part, that resunded,
nothing.
There was also a letter os my partner's, congratulat-
ing me very afsectionately upon my being alive; giving
J 3 m<*
me an account how the estate was improved, and what
it produced a yeir, with a particular os the number os
squares or acres it contained; how planted; how many
staves there were upon it; and making two and twenty
crosses sor blessings, told me, he had said so many Ave
Maria's to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and take pos-
session os my own, and in the mean time to give him or-
ders to whom he should deliver my effects, is I did not
come mysels; concluding with an hearty render os his
sriendship, and that os his samily; and sent me, as a
present, seven sine leopards skins, which he had, it seems,
received trim At"rica by some ship, which he had sent
thither, and' who, it seems, had made a better voyage
than I. He lent me also sive chests os excellent iweat-
meats ; and an hundred pieces os gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidores.
By the same sleet my two merchant trustees shipped
me one thousand two hundred chests os sugar, eight hun-
dred rolls os tobacco, and the rest os the whole account
in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end os
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the slutterings o! my very heart, when I looked
over these letters, and especially when I sound all my
wealth abo\it me; sor as the Brazil so'ps came all in
sleets, the same ships which brought my letters,
brought my goods; and the effects were sase in the Ta-
gus besore the letter came to my hands; in a word, I
turne<! pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man run
and setched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprize
os joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the
spot.
Nay, aster that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician bcir.g sent sor, and some-
thing os the real caule os my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood; aster which I had relies, and
grew well; but I verily believe, is it had not been eased _
by the vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should-
have died. \ wa$
I was now master all on a sudden, os above 5o,oooI.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call
'it, in the Brazils, os above a thousand pounds a year, as
lure as an estate os lands in England; and, in a word, I
was in a condition which I scarce knew how to under-
stand, or how to compoie mysels sor the enjoyment os.
The sirst thing I did, was to recompense my origmal
benesactor, my good old captain, who had been sirst cha-
ritable to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I shewed him all that was
sent mei I told him that, next to the Providence ot
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him;
and that it now lay in my power to reward hun, which
I would do an hundred-told. So I sirst returned to him
the hundred moidores I had received os him; then I lent
sor a notary, and caused him to draw up a general re-
lease or discharge sor the sour hundred and seventy moi-
dores which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the
sullest and sirmest manner possible; aster which, I caused
a procuration to be drawn, impowering him to be my
receiver os the annual prosits os my plantation, and ap-
pointing my partner to account to him, and make the
returns by the urual sleets to him in my name; and a
clause in the end, being a grant os one hundred moidores
a year to him during his lise, out os the effects; and
sisty moidores a year to his son aster him, sor his lise.
And thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands i and, indeed, I had more care
upon my head now, than I had in my silent state os lise
in thi island, where I wanted nothing but what I had,
and had nothing but what I wantedi whereas, Iliad
now a great charge upon me, and my business was how
to secure it. I had never a cave to hide my money in,
or a placi' where it might lie without lock or key, till
it grew mouldy and tarnished besore any body would
meddle with iti on the contrary, i knew not where to
put it, cr whom to trust with it; my old patron, tb*
captain,
captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only
resuge I had. ,
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed
to summon me thither; hut now I could net tell how to
think.os going thither till I had settled my affairs, and
lest mv effects in some sase hands behind me. At sirst,
I thought os my old sriend the widow, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then slie was in
years, r.nd but poor, and, sor aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back
to England mysels, and take my effects with me.
I was some months, however, besore I resolved upon
this; and theresore, as I had rewarded the old captain
sully, and to his satissaction, who hp.d been my sormer-
benesactor; so I began to think os mv poor widow,
whose husband had been my sirst benesactor, and stie,
while it was in het power, my saithsul steward and in-
structori so the sirst thing I did, I got a merchant in
Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only
to pay a bill, but to go sind her out, and carry her in mo-
ney a hundred pounds srom me, and to talk with her,
and comsort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
is I lived, have a sarther supply. At the same time I
sent my two sisters in the country, each os them, a hun-
dred pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married and
lest a widow, and the other having a husband not so kind
to her as he should be.
But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one, to whom 1 durst commit
the gross os my stock, that I might go away to the Bra-
zils, and leave things lase behind me; and this greatly
perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gene Io the Brazils, and.
have settled mysels there; sor I was, as it were, natur-
alized to the place; but I had some little scruple in my
mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back, os
which I snail say more presently. However, it was not
jeligion that kept rqe srom going thither sor the present;
and,
and, as I had made no scruple os being openly os the
religion os the country, all the while I was among them,
so neither did I yet; only that now and then having os
late thought more os it than formerly, when I began to
think os living and dying among them, I began to re-
gret my having prosessed mysels a Papist, and thought
it might not be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me srom going to the Brazils, but that really
I did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
pie; so I resolved at last to go to England with them,
where, is I arrived, I concluded I mould make some
acquaintance, or sind some relations, that would be
saithsul to me; and accordingly I determined to go sor
England with all my wealth.
Iir order to prepare things sor my going home, I
sirst (the Brazil sleet being just going away) resolved to
give answers suitable to the just and saithful account os
things I had srom thence; and sirst to the Prior os St.
Augustine I wrote a letter sull os thanks sor his just
dealings, and the offer os the eight hundred and seventy
two moidores, which were undisposed os, which I de-
sired might be given, five hundred to the monastery, and
three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior
should direct, desiring the good padre's prayers for me,
and the like. ,
I wrote next a letter os thanks to my trustees, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and ho-
nesty called sor. As for sending them any present,
they were sar above having occasion sor it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in improving the plantation, and his integrity
in increasing the stock os the works, giving him instruc-
tions sor his suture government os my part, according
to the powers I had lest with my old patron, to whom
I desired him to fend whatever became due to me, till
he should hear srom me more particularly; assuring him
that it was my intention, not only to come to him, but
to settle mysels'there for the remainder os my lise. To
this
this I added a very handsome present os some Italian silk*
sor his wise and two daughters, iur such the captain's son
insormed me he had; with two pieces os sine English broad
cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, sive pieces os black
baize, and some Flanders lace cs considerable value.
Having; thus settled my assairs, sold 'my cargo, and
turned all my essects into good bills os exchange, my
next dissiculty was, which way to go to England. I had
been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I ha J a strange
aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason sor it, yet the dissiculty
increased upon me so much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is trne, I had been very unsortunate by sea, and
this might be one os the reasons; but let no man slight
the strong impulses os his own thoughts in cases
os such moment. Two oi the soips which I had singled
out to go in; I mean, more particularly singled out
than any other; that is to say, so as in one os them to
put my things on board, and in the other to have agreed
with the captin; I say, two os these ships miscarried,
viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was
cast away on the Start near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; so that in either os thote vessels
I had been made miserable, and in which most, it is
hard to say.
Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed me
earnestly not to go by sea; but either to go by land to
the Groyne, and cross over the Bay os Biscay to Ro-
chelle, srom whence it was but any easy and sase journey
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go up
to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I wai so prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except srom Calais to Dover, that I resolved
to travel all the way by landi which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleaiknter way; and to make it more so, my old cap-
tain
f!iin brought an English gentleman, the son os a mer-
chant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me.
After which we picked up two who were English mer-
chants also, and two young Portugueze gentlemen, the
last going to Paris only; so that we were in all six os
us, and rive servants, the two merchants, and the two
Portugueze, contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save expences; and as sor me, I got an
EnglUh sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my
man Friday, who was too much a stranger io be capable
os supplying the place os a servant upon the road.
In this manner I set out srom Lisbon; and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made
a little troop, whereos they did me the honour to call
me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be-
cause I had two servants, and indeed was the original
os the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none os my sea jour-
nals, so shall I trouble you with none os my land jour-
nal i but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedious and dissicult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the
court os Spain, and what was worth observing; but it
being the latter part ot the summer, we hastened away,
and set out srom Madrid about the middle os October.
But when we came to the edge os Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much show had sallen on the French side os the
mountains, that several travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampeluna, aster having attempted, at an ex-
treme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna, we sound it so indeed;
and to me that had been always uied to an hot climate,
and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear any
cloaths on, the cold was unbearable; nor, indeed, was
it more painsul than it was surprising, to come but ten
days besore cut os the Old Castile, where the weather
was not only warm, but very hot; and immediately to
5 ' fed
scel a wind srom the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen,
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
numbing and perishing os our singers and toes was very
strange.
Poor Friday was really srighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with show, and selt cold weather
which he had never seen or selt besore in his lise.
To mend the matter, aster we came to Pampeluna,
it continued showing with so much violence, and so long
that the people said—' Winter was coming besore its
'time?' and the roads which were disssicult besore, were
now quite impassablei in a word, the show lay in some
places too thick sor us to travel; and being not hard
srozen, as is the case in Northern countries, there was
no going without danger os being buried alive every
step. We staid no less than twenty days at Pampeluna;
when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood
os its being better, sor it was the severest winter all
over Europe, that had been known many years) I pro-
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there
take shipping sor Bourdeaux, which was a very little
voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in sour
French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side os the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
sound out a guide, who, traversing the country near the
head os Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by sihch ways, that thev were not much incom-
moded with the show; and where they met with show
in any quantity, they said it was srozen hard enough to
bear them and their horses.
We sent sor this guide, who told us, he would under-
take to cany us the same way, with no hazard srom the
show, provided we were armed sussiciently to protect us
srom wild beasts; sor, he said, upon these great shows,
it was srequent sor some wolves to shew themselves at
the soot os the mountains, being made ravenous sor want
os sood. We told him we were well enough prepared
sor such creatures as they were, is he would insure us
srom
srom a kind os two-legged wolves, which we were told
we were in most danger srom, especially on the French
£de o! the mountains.
He satissied us that there was no danger os that kind
in the way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to
sollow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their seivants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I
said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.
According!y; we all set out srom Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the 15th os November; and, indeed, I
was surprized, when, instead os going forward, he came
directlv hack with us, on the same rca.1 that we came
srom Madrid, above twenty milei; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no show to be seen; but, on a sud-
den, turning.to the lest, lie a;prcached the mountains
another way; and though it is true, the hills and the
precipices looked dreadiully;yethe made so many tours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we
insensibly passed the height os the mountains, without
being much incumbered with the show; and all on a sud-
den he shewed us the pleasant sruitsul provinces os Lan-
guedoc and Gascoigne, all green and slourishing; though
indeed, they were at a great distance, and we had seme
rough way to pass yet.
f We were a little uneasy, however, when we sound it
showed one whole day and a night, so sast, that we could
not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be
past it all. We sound, indeed, that we bea;an to de-
scend every day, and to come more north tliau before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was abuut two hours besore night, when our guide
being something besore us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and aster them a bear,
srom an heilow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two
os the wolves slew upon the guide; and had he been
hals a mile besore us, he had been devoured indeed, be-
VoL. II. 25. K sore
sore we could have helped him. One ot them sastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man, with
that violence, that he had not time, or not presence or
mind enough, to draw hi* pistol, but hallooed and cried
out to us most lustily; my man Friday being next to
me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the matter.
As loon as Friday ciine in sight oi the man, he hal-
looed as loud as the other—' 0 master! O master! But
like a bold sciiow, rode directly up to the nun, and
with his pistol shnt the wolt that attacked him in the head.
It was happy sor the poor man, that it was my man
Friday; sor lie, having betn used to that kind cs crea-
ture in his country, had no tear upon him, but went
up clote to him, and iliot him, as above; whereas any
ot us would have sired at a sarther distance, and have
perhaps, either miffed the wolt, or endangered siicotuig
the man.
But it was enough to have terrisied a bolder man than
I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with
the noise os Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the
the dismallest bowlings ot' wolves, and the noise re-
doubled by the echo cr the mountains, that it was to
us as is there had been a prodigious multitude ot them;
and perhaps, indeed, there was not so small a number
as that we had no cause or apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wols, the other,
that had sastened upon the horse, lest him immediately
and sled, having happily sastened upon his head, where
the botses os the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him much hurti the man, indeed, was
most hurt; sor the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above h.*
knee; and he was just as it were tumbling down by
the disorder os the hone, when Friday came up and shot
the wols.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise os Friday's pis-
tol, we all mended our pace, and role up as sast as the
way (which was very dissicult) wousd give us leave, to
see what was the matteri as soon as we came clear os
the
the trees, which biinded us before, we saw plain!)- what
had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the
poor guide; though we did not presently diieern what
kind os creature it was he had killed.
But never was a sight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprizing manner, as that which followed between
Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though at sirsti
we were surprized and asraid sor him) the greatest- di-
version imaginable. As the bear is a heavy clumsy
creature, and does not gallop as the wols does, which is
swist and light, io he has two particular qualities, which
generally are the rule os his actions i sirst, as to men,
who are not his proper prey; I say, not his proper
prey, though I cannot lav what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their case, the ground being all co-
vered with show; vet, as to men, he does not usually
attempt them, unless they sirst attack him; on the
contrary, is you meet him in the woods, though is
you do not meddle with him, he won't meddle with
you; ye;, then, you must take care to be very ci-
vil to him, and give him the ioad; sor he is a very
nice gentleman, he won't go a step out os the way for
a prince; nay, is you are really asraid, your best way
is to loolt another way, and keep going on; for some-
times, is you stop and stand still, and look stedsastly at
him, he takes it for an assront, but it you throw or toss
any thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but
a bit os stick as big as your singer, he takes it sor an
affront, and sets all other business aside to pursue his
revenge; sor he will have satissaction in point os ho-
nour; and this is his sirst qualityi the next is, that is
he be once asfronted, he will never leave you night or
day, till he has liis revenge, but follow at a good round
rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off srom his
horie; for the man was both hurt and srighted, and
indeed the last more than the sirst; when, on a sudden,
we Ipied the bear come out os the wood, and a mon.
K a ftrous
strous one it was, the biggest by sar that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprized when we saw him; but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to ice joy and courage
in the sellow's countenance i 'O! O! O! (says Fri-
'day, three times, pointing to him) O master, you give
* me te leave, me shakee te hand with him, me make©
'you good laugh.'
I was surprized to see the sellow so pleased. 'You
« sool you (said I) he will eat you up.'—' Eatee me
« up! eatee me up! (says Friday twice over again.)
* Me eatee him up; me makee you good laugh; you
'all stay here, me shew you good laugh.' So down he
sits, and gets his boots oss in a moment, and put on a
pair os pumps, (as we call the slat shoes they wear)
and which he had in his pocket, gives my other ser-
vant his horse, and with his gun, away he slew, swist
like the wind.
The bear was walking sostly on, and ossered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls
to him, as is the bear could understand him. 'Hark ye,
« hark ye (says Friday) me speake wit you.' We sollow-
ed at a distance; sor now being comedown to the Gas-
coigne side os the mountains, we entered a vast great
sorest, where the country was plain, and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here anil there.
Friday, who h,ad, as we say, the he.ds os the bear,
came up with him quickly, and taking up a great stone
and throwing at him, hit him just on the heid; but it
did him no more harm than is he had thrown it against
a walli but it answered Friday's end; sor the rogue was
so void os sear, that he did it purely to make the bear
sollow him, and shew us some Hugh, as he called it.
As soon as the bear selt the stone, and saw him, he
turned about, and came aster him, taking devilim long
sirides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would
put a horse to a middling gallop; away ran Friday*
taking his course as is he ran towards us sor help; so
we ail resolved to sire at once upon the bear, and deli-
ver my man; though I was angry at him heartily sor
bringing
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about his business another way; and especially I was
angry that he had tinned the bear upon us, and then run
away; and I calied out—'You dog (said I) is this your
'making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse,
'that we mav shoot the creature.' He heard me, and
cried out—'No shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get
• much laugh!' and as the nimble creature ran two seet
sor the beast's cr.e, he turned on a sudden, on one side os
us, and seeing a great oak tree, sit sor his purpose, he
beckored us to sollow, and doubling his pace, he got
nimblv up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about sive or six yards srom the bottom os
the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and as we sollowed
at a distancei the sirst thing he did was, to stop at the
gun, which he smelt to, but let it lie, he then scram-
bled into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strously heavy. I was amazed at the solly, as I thought
it, os my man, and could not sor my lise see anything
to laugh at yet, till sinding the bear had got up the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small part os a large limb os the tree, and the
bear got abcut halsway to him. As soon as the bear
got cut to that part where the limb os the tree was
weaker—* Ha, (says lie to us) now you fee me teachee
* the bear dance!' So he salls a lumping and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
still, and looked behind him, to see how he should get
back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Fri-
day had not done with him by a great deal. When he
saw him stand still, he cailed out to him again, as is he
had siippo!ed the bear could speak English-*—' What,
'you come no sarther? Pray you come sarther!' So he
lest jumping and shaking the bough; and the bear, just
as is he understood what he said, did come a little sar-
ther; then he si.ll a jumping again, and the bear stop-
ped again,
K3 We
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to sta-id still, and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly—' O
* pray! O pray !, no shoot; me shoet by and then! (he
'would have laid) by and by.' However, to shcrten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so
ticklith, that we had laughing enough indeed, but still
could not imagine what the sellow would do; for sirst
we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and
we sound the bear was too cunning for that too; for
he would not get out far enough to be thrown down,
but clung fart with his great broad claws and feet, so
that we could not impgine what would be the end of it
and where the jest v\puld be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for feeing
the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not
be perfuaded to come any farther; 'Well, well, (iaid
Friday) you no come farther, me go, me go; you no
* come to me, me come to you.' And upon this he
went to the fmallest end of the bough, where it might
bend with his weight, and gently let himfels down bv
it, sliding down the bough, till he came near enough to
jump down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun,
took it up, and stood still.
'Well (faid I to him) Friday, what will you do now?
'Why don't you stioot himi—No fhoot, (fays Friday)
'no yet; me shoot now, me no killi me stay, me give
* you one more laugh.' And indeed so he did, as you
will fee prefently; for when the bear faw his enemy
gone, he came back from the bough where he stood, In t
did it mighty leifurely, looking behind every step, ami
coming backward till he got into the body of the treei
then, with the fame hinder end foremost, he camedo^n
the tree, grafping it with his claws, and moving one
foot at a time, very leifurelv; st this juncture, and i' ft
before he could fet his hind feet upon the ground, Fii-
day stepped dole to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece
into his ear, and fhot him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about, to fee if we did not
laugh;
laugh; and when he law we were plcased by our looks,
he sell a laughing himsels very loud. 'So we kill bear
'in mv country, (says Friday). So you kill them,
(said I;) why, you have no guns.'—' No (lays he) no
* guns, but shoot great much long arrow.'
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were still in a wild place, and our guide veiy much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling os
the wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed, except
the noise I once heard on the shore os Asrica, os which
I have said something aheady, I never heard any thing
that silled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach os night, called us
oss, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should
certainly have taiun the skin os this monstrous creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had t'rree leagues
to go, and cur guide hastened us; so we lest him, and
went forward on cur journey.
The ground was still covered with show, though not
so deep and dangtrous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard asterwards, were come
down into the sorest, and plain country, pressed by hunger*
to seek sor sood, and had done a erreat deal os mischies in
the villages where they surprized the country people, kill-
ed many os their sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, os which our
gnidif/rid us, is there were any more wolves in the
co'ir.'.ry, we shculd sind them there; and this was a
small plain, suirounded with woed, on every side, and a
long n.'.now desile er lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within hals an hour os fun set when we en-
tered the sirst wood, and a little aster son-set when we
came into the plain. We met with nothing in the sirst
wood, except that in a little plain within the wood, which
was not above two surlongs over, we saw sive great
wolves cross the road, full speed one asttr another, as
is they had been in chace os some prey, and had it in
view
view; they took no notice os us, and were gone and
out os sight in a sew moments.
Upon this, our guide, who, by the way was a wretched
sa'mt-hesr'ed sellow, hade us keep in a ready posture,
sor he believed there were mere wolves a coming.
We k*:pt our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near halt a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look about us. The sirst object we
met with, was a dead horse, that is to say, a poorherie,
which the wolves had killed and at least a dozen os them
at work ; we could not say eating os him, but picking his
bones rather, sor they had eaten up all the slesh before.
We did not think sit to disturb them at their seast,
neither did they take much notice ot us. Friday would
have let sty at them, but I would not susser him by any
means; lor I sound we were like to have more builness
upon our hands than we aware os. We were not hals
gone over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves
howl in the wood, on our left, in a srightsul manner;
and presently aster we law about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most os them in
a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experi-
enced ossicers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
them; but sound, to draw ourselves in a close line, was
the only wayi so we sormed in a moment; but that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered, that only
every other man should sire; and that the others, who
had not sired, should stand ready to give them a second
volley immediately, is they continued to advance upon
us; and that then those who had sired at sirst, should
not pretend to load their susils again, but stand ready,
with everyone a pistol; sor we were ali armed with a fu-
sil, and a pair ot pistols each man; Ib we were, by this
method, able to sire six volleys, hals os us at a time.
However, at present, we had no necessity; sor, upcn
siring the sirst volley, the enemy made a full step, be-
ing terrisied, as well with the jioisi, as with the siie;
sour
sour os them, being shot in the head, dropped; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we
couid see by the shcw. I sound they stopped, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that
I had been told, that the siercest creatures were terri-
sied at the voice os a man, I caused all our company to
halloo as loud as we could; and I sound the notion not
altogether mistaken"; sor, upon our shout, they began
to retire, and turn about; then I ordered a second vol-
ley to be sired in their rear, which put them to the gal-
lop; and away they went to the woods.
This gave us lehiire to charge our pieces again; and
that we might lose no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our susils, and put our-
selves into readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in
the same wood on our lest; only that it was sarther on j
w;rd the same way we were to go.
Ti.~ night was now coming on, which made it the
worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could
easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling os
those hellish creatures; and, on a iudden, we perceived
two cr three troops os wolves, one on our lest, one
behind us, and one in our sront; so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them; however, as they did not sall
upon us, we kept our way sorward, as sast as we could
make our horses go, which, the way being very rough
was only a good trot; and in this manner we only
came in view os the entrance os the wood, through
which we were to pass, at the sarther side os the plain;
but we were greatly surprized, when coming near the
lane, or pass, we saw a confused number os wolves
standing iust at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening os the wood, we
heard the noise os a gun, and, looking that way, out
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, slying
like tiie wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves aster
him, sull speed; indeed tire horse had the heels os them;
but, as we supposed he could not hold it .at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him at last,
and no question but they did. Here
Here we hail a most horrible sight; tor riding up r»
the entrance where the horse came out, we sound the
carcase os another horse, and oi two men, devoured hy
these ravenous creatures, ?nd one ot the men was, no
doubt, the same whom we heard sire the gun; tor there
lay a gun just by him sired off; but, as to the man,
his head, and the upper part ot his body, were eaten
sip.
This silled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon ; sor
they gathered about us presently, in hopes os prey;
and I verily btlicve there were three hundred ot' them.
It happened, very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way irom it, there
lay some large trees, which hat! been cut down the sum-
mer besore, and I suppose lay there tor carriage. I
drew my little troop in among these trees; and placing
ourselves in a line behind one large tree, I advised them
all u> alight, and keeping that tree besore its, sor a
breast-work, to stand in a triangle, cr three sronts in-
closing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; sor never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this placei they came on us with a growling kind os
a noise, and mounted the piece ot timber, (which, as I
laid, was our breast-work) as it they were oijy rush-
ing upon their prey; and this sury os theirs, it teems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered
cur men to sire as besore, every other man; and they
took their aim io sure, that indeed they killed several
os the wclves at the sirst volley; but there was a neces-
sity to keep a continual siring, sor they came soiward
like devils, those behind pushing en those besore.
When we had sired our second volley os our susils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have guie oss; but it was but a moment, sor
/o'.hers came lorward again; so we sired our volleys os
our pistols; and I believe in these sour sirings we killed
seventeen
ar eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet
thev came on again. ,
I was loth to fpend our last shot too hastily; fo I
called my fervant, not my man Friday, for he was
better employed; for, with the greatest dexterity ima-
ginable, lie charged my fusil, and his own, while we
were engaged; but, as'I faid, I called my other man,
and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large
traini he did fo, and had but just time to get away,
when the wolves came up upon it; when I, fnapping
an uncharged pistol clofe to the powder, fet it on sire;
and thofe that were upon the timber were fcorched with-
it, and six or feven of them fell, or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the sire; we
dispatched thefe in an instant, and the rest were fo
frighted with the light, which the night, for now it
wai very near dark, made more terrible, that they
drew back a little.
Upon this I ordered our list pistols to be sired off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shouti upon this
the wolves turned tail, and we iallied immediatelv upon
near twenty lame ones, which we found struggling on
the ground, and fell cutting them with our fwords;
which anfwered our expectation, for the crying and
howling they made were better understood by their fel-
lows; fo that they sled, and left us.
We had, sirst and last, killed about three-score of
them; and had it been day-light, we had killed many
more. The sield of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward agiin; for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went feveral times, and fometimes we
sancied we saw fome of them, but the fnow dazzling
our eyes, we were not certam i fo in about an hour
more, we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms;
for it feems, that the night before, the wolves and sbine
bears ;iad broken into that village, and put them in a
terrible
terrible sright; and that they were obliged to keep
guard night and day, but especially in the night, to
preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelled with the rankling os his two wounds, that i e
could go no sarther; so we were obliged to take a new-
guide there, and go to Tholouie, where we sound a
warm climate, a sruitful pleasant country, and no mow,
no wolvt-s, or any thing like them; but wiien we told
our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but
what was ordinary in the great sorest at the soot os the
mountains, especially when the show lay on the groundi
but they enquired much what kind os a guide we had
gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such
a severe season; and told us, it was very sortunate we
were not all devoured. When we told them in what
manner we placed ourselves, and the horles in the mid-
dle, they blamed us exceedingly and told us, it was
sisty to one bufwe had been all destroyed; sor it w?s
the sight os the horses that made the wolves so surious,
seeing their prey; and I hat at other times they are really
asraid os a gun; but they being excessive hungry, ard
raging on that account, the eagerness to come at tie
horses had made them senseless os danger; and that is
we had not by the continued sire, and at last by the
stratagem os the train oi" powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and sired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much sor their own, when men were on
their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that
at last, is we had stood al! together, and lest cur horses,
they would have been so eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come ess sase, especially, havii.g
our sire arms in our hands, and being so many in
number.
For my part, I was never so sensible os danger in my
lise; sor seeing above three hundred devils come roa r-
ing and open-mouth.-d to <Jcvour iis, and having no-
* tain-r
thing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave mysels over sor
loll; and as it was I believe, I shall never care to cross
those mountains again; I think I would much rather go
a thousand leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet
with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice os, in my
.passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
veliers have given an account os with much mere ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled srom Tholouse to Pa-
ris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais,
and landed sase at Dover the 14th os January, aster
having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre os my travels, and
had in a little time all my new discovered estate sase
about me; the bills os exchange, which I brought with
me, having been very currently paid.
My principal guide, and privy-counsellor, was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude sor the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ sor me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thing, that I was persectly easy as to the
security os my essects; and indeed I was very happy srom
my beginning, ami now to the end, in the unspotted in-
tegrity os this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think os leaving my effects witli
this woman, and setting out sor Lisbon, and so to the
Brazils; but a scruple came in the way, and that was
religioni sor as I had entertained some doubts about
the Roman religion, even while I was abroad, especi-
ally in my state os solitude; so I knew there was no go-
ing to the Brazils sor me, much less going to settle
there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catho-
lick religion without any reserve; except, on the other
hand, I resolved to be a sacrisice to my principles, be
a martyr sor religion, and die in tiie inquisition; so I
resolved to stay at home, and is I could meet with the
opportunity to dispose os my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote, to my old sriend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily dis-
VoL. II. 29 L pose
.pole of it there i but that if I thought sit to give him
leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the
furvivors of my trustees who lived in the Brazils, who
must fully understand the value of it, who lived just upon
the fpot, and whom I knew to be very rich, fo that he
believed they would be fond of buying it; he did not
doubt but I should make four or sive thoufand pieces of
eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did fo; and, in about eight months more,
the fhip being then returned, he fent me an account,
that they had accepted the cffer, and had remitted thirty
three thoufand pieces of eight to a correfpondent of
theirs at Litbon, to pay for it.
In return, I figned the instrument of fale in the form
which they fent from Litbon, and fent it to my old man,
who fent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thou-
fand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate; re-
ferving the payment of one hundred moidores a-yearto
him, the old man, during his lise, and sifty moidores
afterwards to his fon for his life, which I-had promifed
them; and which the plantation was to make good as
a rent-charge.
And thus I have given the sirst part of a life of
fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's che-
quer-work, and ot a variety which the world will
feldom be able to shew the like of; beginning foolithly,
but closing much mi.re happily than any part ol it ever
gave me leave fo much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards;
and so, indeed I had been, is other circumstances had
occurred; but I was mured to a wandermg lite, had no
family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had
I contracted much acquamtance; and though I had told
my estaie in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that
country out of my head, and hf^l a great mmd to be
upon the wing again; especially I could not refist the
strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know
if
is the poor Spaniards were in being there; and how the
rog-iies I lest there had used them. .
My true sriend, the widow earnestly dissuaded me
srom it; and so sar prevailed with me, that almost for
seven years she prevented my going abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children os one
os my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having some-
thing os his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave
him a settlement os some addition to his estate alter my
decease; the other I put out to a captain os a ship;
and aster sive years, sinding him a sensible, bold, en-
terprising young scllow; I put him into a good sliip,
and lent him to sea i anil this young tellow afterwards
drew me in, old as I was, to sarther adventures my-
sels.
In the mean time, I in part settled mysels here i sor
sirst os all I married, and that not either to my disadvan-
tage or dissatissaction; and had three children, two
sens and one daughter. But my wise dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success srom a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu-
nity prevailed, and engaged me tor go in his ship as a
private trader to the East-Indies. This was in the year
1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island;
saw my successors the Spaniards; had the whole story
os their lives, and os the villains I lest therei how at
sirst they insulted the poor Spaniards; by what means
they asterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and
how at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence
with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; an history, is
it were entt-red into, as sull os variety and wonderful
accidents as my own lise; particularly also as to their
battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several times
upon the island, and as to the improvements they made
upon the island itsels; with an account os the manner
in which they made an attempt upon the main land,
and brought away eleven men and sive women prisoners;
Li by
by which, at my coming, I sound about twenty young
children on the island.
Here I staid about twenty days; lest them supplies
os all necessary things, and particularly os arms, pow-
der, mot, cloaths, tools, and two workmen, which
I brought srom England with me; viz. a carpenter, and
a. smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with them,
reserving to mysels the property os the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and
having fettled all things with them, and engaged them
not to quit the place, I lest them.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, srom whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people
on the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent
seven women, being such as I sound proper sor service,
or sor wives to such ar, would take them. As to the
Englishmen, I promised to send them some women srom
England, witha good cargo os necessaries, is they would
apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards could
not persorm. The sellows proved very honest and di-
ligent aster they were mastered, and had their proper-
ties set apart sor them. I lent them also srom the Bra-
zils, sive cows, (three os them being big with cals)
some sheep, and some hogs ; -which, when I came again,
were considerably encreased.
But all these things, with an account how three hun-
dred Caribeans came and invaded them, and ruined their
plantations; and how they sought with that whole
number twice, and were at sirst deseated and one os
them killed; but at last a storm destroying their ene-
mies canoes, they samished or destroyed almost all the
rest, and renewed and recovered the possession os their
plantation, and still lived upon the island. Ail these
things, with some very surprizing incidents in some
new adventures os my own, sor ten years more, I may,
perhaps give a sarther account os hereaster.
That homely proverb, u.ed on so many occasions in
England, viz. ' That what is bred in the bone will
« not
'not go out of the slcsh;' was never"more verisied than
in the story of mv life. Any one would think that after
thirty sive years assliction, and a variety of unhappy cir-
cumstances, which few men, if ever any, went through
before, aird after near feven years of peace and enjoy-
ment in the fuilnels ot all things; grown old, and when,
if ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience
os every state of middle life, and to know which was
most adapted to make a man completely happy; I fay
after all this,. any one would have thought, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account
of in my sirst ictting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed,
and I might at sixty oie years of age have been a I.ttle
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing life
and sortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; ter I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to feck. If I had gained ten
thousand pounds, 1 had been no richer; for I had al-
ready sufficient for me and fot thefe I had to leave it to,
and that I had was visibly increasing; for having no
great family, I could not fpend the income of what I
had, unlefs I would fet up for an expenfive way of liv-
ing, fuch as a great samily, servants, equipage, gaiety,
and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or
inclination to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but
to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and fee it in-
crease daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclmation I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical.
distemper; particularly, the desire of leeing my new
plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in
my head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my
imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost in.
all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and
£rongiy upon it, that 1 talked of it in my sleep; in short,
L 3 nothing
nothing could remove it out os my mind. It even
broke sb violently into all my discourses, that it made
my conversation tiresome; tor I could talk os nothing
else; all my discourse run into it, even to impertinence,
and I saw it mysels.
I have osten heard persons os good judgment say,
that all the stir people make in the world about ghosts
and apparitions, is owing to the strength os imagination,
and the powersul operation os sancy on their minds;
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like: that people's poring as-
scctionately upon the past conversation os their deceased
sriends, so realizes itsels to them, that they are capable
os sancying upon some extraordinary circumstances,
that they see them, talk to them, and are answered
by them; when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow
and vtpourin the thing, and they really know nothing
os the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour, whether there
are any such things as real apparations, spectres, or
walking os people aster they are dead, or whether there
is any thing in the stories they tell us os that kind,
more than the product os vapours, sick minds, and wan-
dering sancies i but this I know, that my imagination
worked me up to such a heighth, and brought me into
such excess os vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed mysels ostentimes upon the spot, at
my old castle behind the trees; saw mv old Spaniard,
Friday's sather, and the reprobate sailors, whom I lest
upon the island; nay, I sancied I talked with them, and
looked at them so steadily, though! was broad awake,
as at persons just besore mei aer. this I did till I osten
srighted mysels with the images my sancy represented to
me. One time in my steep I had the villainy os the
three pirate sailors so lively related to me, by the sirst
Spaniard and Friday's sather, that it was surprizing;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards; and that they set sire to the provisions
tiiey had iaid up, on purpose to distress and starve them i
things
things that I had never heard os, and that yet were all
os them true in sact. And it was so warm in my ima-
gination, and so realized to me, that to the hour I saw
them, I could not be persuaded, but that it was, or
would be true; also how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them besore me, and ordered them all three
to be hanged. What there was really in this, shall be
seen in its place. For however I came to sorm such
things in my dream, and what secret converse os spirits
injected it, yet there was, I say, very much os it true;
I own that this dream, had nothing in it literally and
specisically true; but the general part was so true, the
base and villainous behaviour os these three hardened
rogues was inch, and had been so much worie than all
I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
os the sact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them severely, so is I had hanged them all. I h?.d been
much in the right, stui mould have been justisied both
by the laws os God and man.
But to return to my story. In this kind os temper I
had lived some years; I had no enjoyment os my lise,
no plealant hovis, no agreeable diversion, but what had
something or other os tins in it; so that my wise, who
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, toid me very se-
riously one night, that me believed there was some lecret
powersul impulse os Providence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she sound
nothing hindered my going, but my bemg engaged to a
wise and children. She told me, that it was true sne
could not think os parting with me; but as she was as-
sured, that is she was dead it would be the sirst thing I
would do; so as it seemed to her, that the thing was
determined above, slie would not be the only obstruction,
sor, is I thought sit, and resolved to go—Here she sound
me veiy intent upon her words ; and that I looked very
earnestly at her; !b that it a little disordered her, and
slie stopped. I asiied her why she did not go on, and
say out what she was going to say. But I perceived her
heart
heart was too sull,, and some tears slood in her eyes.
'Speak out, my dear, says Ii ' are you willing I
« should go ?'—' No,' says she very affectionately, ' I
* am sar srom willing! But isyou are resolved to go,'
says she, ' rather than I will be the only hindrance, I
* will go with you; sor though I think it a preposte-
'rov.s thing sor one os your years, and in your condi-
'tion; yet is it muil be,' said she again weeping, ' I
* won't leave you! sor is it be os Heaven, ycu muss do
* it, there is no resisting it; and is Heaven makes it
* ycur duty to go, he will also make it mine to go with
* you, or otherwise dispose os me, that I may not obr
* struct it,'
This affectionate behaviour os my wise brought me
a little out os the vapours, and I began to consider what
I was doing. I corrected my wandering sancy, and
began to argue with mysels sedately, what business I
had, aster three-score years, and aster such a life os te-
dious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy
and easy a manner; I say, what business had I (o rush
into new hazards, and put mysels upon adventures, sit
only sor youth and poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new engages
ments i that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
then great with child os another, that I lnd all the
world could give me, and had no need to slek hazards
tor gain; that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather os leaving what I had gained, than os seek-
ing to increase it; that as to what niy wise had said os
its being an impulse srom Heaven, and that it should be
my duty to go, I had no notion os that; so, aster
many o! these cogitations, I straggled with the power
.os my imagination, reasoned myscls out os it, as I be-
Jieve people may always do in like casts is they will;
and, in a word, I conquered it; composed myscls with
such arguments r.s occurred to my thoughts, and which
jny prtJent condition surnished me plentisully with;
and particularly, as the most effectual method, I re-
sosved to divert mysels with other things, and to en-
gage
gage in some business that might effectually prevent me
srom ar.y more excursions os this kind; sor I sound the
thoughts returned upon me chiesly when I was idle,
had nothing to do, or any thing ot moment immedi-
ately besore me.
To this purpose I bought a little sarm in the county
os Bedsord, and resolved to remove mysels th.ther. I
had a little convenient house upon it, a d the land about
it I sound was capable os great improvement, and that
it was manv ways suited to mv inclination, which de-
lighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and unprov-
ing os land ; and particularly, being an inland county,
I was removed srom conversing with, and things relat-
ing to the remote parts os the world.
In a word, I went down to my sarm, settled my sa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a car', waggon,
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriouMv io work, be-
came in one hals year a mere country gentseman; my
thoughts were entirely taken up in mansginr my ser-
vants, cultivating the ground; inclosing plantmg, &c.
and I lived, as I thought; the most agreeable lite that
nature was capable os directing, er that a man always
bred to missortunes was capable os recreating to.
I sanned upon my own land, I hi. no rent to pay,
was limited by no articles; I con!' pull up, or cut
down, as I pleased. What I planned was sor mysels;
and what I improved was sor my f imilv; and having
thus lest oss the thoughts os wandermg, I had not the
lead discomsort in any part os mv lise, as to this world.
Now I thought indeed, that I enjoved that middle state
os lise, which my sather so earnestlv recommended to
me. A kind os heavenly lise, something like what is
described by the poet upon the subject os a country lisei
Free srom vices, sree srom care,
Age has no pam, and youth no share.
But in the middle os all this selicitv, ore blow srom
unseen Providence unhinged me at once; and not only
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into
the
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, bein?
born in my very blood, icon recovered its hold os me,
and, like the returns os a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible sorce upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression on me. This blow'was the
loss os my wise!
It is not my business here to write an clegy upon my
wise, so give a character os her particular virtues,
and make my court to the sex by the slattery os
a suneral sermon. She was, in a sew words, the stay
os all my affairs, the centre os all my enterprizes; the
engine, that by her prudence, reduced me to that happy
compass I wn.s in, srom the most extravagant and ru-
inous pioiect that iluttcred in my head, as above; and
did more :o guide my rambling genius than a mother's
tears, a sather's instructions, a sriend's counsel, or all
my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in
1 ilening to her tears, and in being moved by her in-
t.'eaties, and to the last degree desosate and dislocated in
tiie world bv the loss os her.
When Ihe was gone, the world looked aukardly
round mei I was as much a stranger in it, in mv
thoughts, as I was hi the Brazils, when I sirst went on
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist-
ance os servants, as I was in my island. I knew nei-
ther what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world
busy round me, one part labouring sor bread, and the
other squandering it in vile excesses or empty pleasures;
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still sled
srom them; sor the men os pleasure were every day sur-
scited os their vices, and heaped up work sor sorrow and
repentance; and the men os labour spent their strength
in daily struggling sor bread, to maintain the vital
strength they laboured with; so living in a daily circu-
lation os sorrow, living but to work, rnd working but
to lite; as is daily-bread were the only end oi~ a weari-
some lise, and a wearisome lise the cn!y occasion os
daily-bread.
This put me in mind os the lise I lived in my king-
dom,
dom, the island; where I suffered no more corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause I had no more use sor them; where the money lay-
in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce the
savour to be looked upon in twenty years.
Ail these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search sarther than human
enjoyments sor a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which cersrinly was the reason and end os lise, su-
perior to rll these things, wiiich was either to be pos-
sessed, or at leak hoped sor on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run asore the wind.
My thoughts ran all away again into the old affair; my
head was quite turned with the whimsies os soreign ad-
ventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements os
my sarm and my garden, my cattle and my samily,
which besore entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear,
or sood to one that hasno taste. In a word, I resolved
to leave off houseke ring, let my sarm, and return to
London. And in a sew months aster, I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneaiy as be-
sore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, os
whom it may be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing matter to the rest os
his kind whether he be dead or ahve. This also was
the thing, which os all circumstances os lise was the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an.
active lise; and I would osten say to mysels, " A state
"os idleness is the very dregs os lise!" And, indeed,
I thought I was much more iuitably employed, when X
was twenty-six days making a deal-board.
It was now the beginning os the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed besore, I had
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander os
a sliip, was come home srom a iliort voyage to Bilboa,
being
being the sirst he had made. He came to me, and tolj
me that some merchants os his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage sor them to the East-
Indies, and to China, as private traders. "And now,
"uncle," says he, " is you will go to lea with me,
"I'll engage to land vou upon your old habitation in
"the island, sor we are to touch at the Brazils."
Nothing can be a grea'er demonstration os a suture
state, and os the existence os an invisible world, than the
concurrence os lecend causes with the ideas os this,
which we sorm in our minds, persectly reserved, and not
communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper os
wand ring was returned upon me, and I knew nothing
os what he had in his thoughts to say; when that very
morning besore he tame to lee me, I had, in a great deal
os consusion os thought and revolving every part os my
circumstances in mv mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that I would po to Lisbon, and consult with my old iea-
captain; and so, is it was rational and practicable, I
wculd go and see the island again, and fee wbat was be-
come os my people there. I had pleased mysels also
with the thoughts os peopling the p'ace, and carrying in-
habitants srom hence, getting a patent sor the possession,
and I know not what; when, in the m ddle os all this,
in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project
os carrying me thither in his way to the East-Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and locking steadily at
him—" What devil," said I, " sent you on this un-
. " Lucky errand?" My nephew startled, as is he had
been srighted at sirst, but perceiving I was not much
. displeased with the proposal, he recovered himsels. "I
"hope it rr.ay not be an unlucky proposal, Sir," says
lie, " I dare say you would be pleased to see your new
"colony there, where you once reigned with more sc-
"licitv than most os your brother Monarchs in the
*' world."
In a word," the scheme hit so exactly with my
temper, that :s to say, with the prepossession I was
under,
tender, and of which I have faid fo much, that I told
him, in few words, if he agreed with the merchants^
I would go witn himi but I told him, I would not pro-
mife to go any farther than my own itland. "Why,
"Sir," favs he, " you don't want to be" left theie
"again, I hope?"—" Why," faid I, " can you not
"take me up again in your return?" He told me, it
would not be possible to do fo; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of fuch value, it being a month's fail out of his
way, and might be three or four. "Besides, Sir, if I
"should mifcarry," said he, "and not return at all,
"then you would be just reduced to the condition you
*' were in before."
This was Very rational; but we both found out a re-
medy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop ort
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and shipped
bn board the vessel, might, by the help of fome carpen-
ters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be put toge-
ther again in the island, and sinithed, sit to go to lea in
a few day9.
I was not long refolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew joined in fo esfectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppofe me. On the other
hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody that concerned
themfelves so much for me, as to persuade me one way
or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow,
who earnestly remonstrated with me to confider my years,
roy eafy circumstances, and the needless hazaru ot a long
voyage; and, above all, my young children. But it
was all to no purpofe, I had an irrefittible defire to the
voyage; and I told her, I thought there was fomething
fo uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Pro-
vidence, if I should attempt to stay at home. After
this she ceafed her expostulations; and joined with me
not only in making provifion for my voyage, but alfo
in fettling my family-affairs in my abfence, and provid-
ing for the education of my children.
Voi.. II. 30. M In
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the es-
tate: I had in such a manner tor my children, and placed it
in such hands, that I was persectly easv and satissied they
would have justice done them, whatever might besalme;
as sor their education, I lest it wholly to my widow,
with a sussicient maintenance to hersels sor her care. All
which she richly deserved; sor no mother could have
taken more care in their education, or understood it bet-
ter; and as she lived till I. came home, I also lived to
thank her sor it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning os
January, 1694-5; and I, with my man Friday, went
on board, in the Downs, the 8th, having, tx-sides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable car-
go os all kinds os necessaiy things sor my colony,
which is I did not sind in a good condition, I resolved
to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I pur-
posed to place there as inhabitants, or at least, to set to
work there upon my own account while I staid, and ei-
ther to leave them there, or carry them sorward, a*s they
should appear willing; particularly, I carried two car-
penters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious sellow,
who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general me-
chanic, tor he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn; was a good turner, and a
good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was pro-
per to sorm os earth, or wood; in a word, we called him
our "Jack os all trades."
With these I carried a taylor, who had ossered him-
sels to go passenger to the East-Indies with my ne-
phew, but asterwards consented to stay on our new plan-
tation, and proved a most necessary handy sellow, a$
could be desired, in many other employments besides
that os his trade; sor, as I observed besore, necessity
arms us against all dissiculties.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, sor I have not
kept an account os particulars, consisted os a sussicient
quantity os linen, and some thin English stuffs, sor
cloathing
cloathing the Spaniards that I expected to sind there;
and enough os them, as, by my calculation, might com-
sortably supply them sor leven years. Is I remember
right, the materials which I carried sor cloathing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things
as they could want sor weai ing, amounted to above 2 ool.
including some beds, bedding, and houshold-stuff, par-
ticularly kitchen-utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, &c. besides near iool. more in iron-work, nails,
tools os every kmd, staples, hooks, hinges, and every ne-
cessary thing I could think os.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and su-
sils, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity ot shot
os all sizes, three or tour tons os lead, and two pieces
os brass cannon; and because I knew not what time,
and what extremities I was providing sor, I carried an
hundred barrels os powder, besides [words and cutlasses,
and the iron part ot some pikes and halberts; so that,
in short, we had a large magazine os all sorts os stores;
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck
guns more than he wanted tor his ship, to leave behind,
is there was occasion; that, when they came there, we
might build a fort, and man it against all sorts os ene-
mies i and indeed I at sirst thought there would be need
enough os it all, and much more, is we hoped to main-
tain our possession os the island.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been
used to meet with; and theresore shall have the less oc-
casion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet, some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather,
happened on our sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and 1, who had never
made but one voyage, (viz. my sirst voyage to Guinea)
in which I might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst designed, began to think the same ill
sate still attended me, and that I was born to be never
contented with my own shore, and yet to be always un-
sortunate at sea.
M i Con-
Contrary winds sirst drove us to the- northward, and
we were obliged to pui in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay wind-bound two and thirty-days; but we had
this satisiaction with the disaster, that provisions were
here exceedmg cheap, and in the utmost plenty; s6
that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's
stores, but rather added to them. Here also I took se.?
veral hogs, and two cows with their calves, which I re-
solved, is I had a good passage, to put ashore in my
island; but we sound occasion to dispose os them
otherwise.
We set out the 5th os February srom Ireland, and
had a very sair gale os wind sor some days. Accord-
ing to my remembrance, it might be about the 20th
os February, in the evening, late, when the mate, hav-
ing the watch, came into the round-house, and told us,
he saw a slam cs sire, and heard a gun sired; and while
he was telling us os it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all run out
'upsn the quarter-deck, where sor awhile we heard no-
ihingi but in a scw minutes we saw a very great light,
and found that there was some very terrible sire at a dis-
tance. Immediately we had recourse to our reckonings,
in which we all agreed, that there could be no land that
way in which the sire shewed itsels; no, not sor 5c0
leagues ; for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this, we con-
cluded it must be some ship on sire at sea; and as, by
o«r hearing the noise os guns just before, we concluded
rit could not be sar off, we stood directly towards it, and
were presently satissied we should discover it, because
the sarther we sailed, the greater the light appeared,
though the weather being hazy, we could not perceive
any thing but the light for awhile. In about hals an
hour's sailing, the wind being sair sor us, though not
much os it, and the weather clearing up a little, we
could plainly discern that it was a great ship on sire in
the middle os the sea. I was most senlibly touched with
this disaster, though not at all acquainted with the per-
sons engaged in it, I presently recollected my sormey
circumstanccsj
circumstances, in what condition I was when taken
up by the Portugueze captain; and how much more
deplorable the circumstances ot the poor creatures be-
longing to the ship must be, is they had no other ship in
company with them. Upon this, I immediately or-
dered that sive guns should be sired, one soon aster ano
ther, that, is possible, we might give notice to them that
there was help sor them at hand, and that they might en-
deavour to save themselves in their boat; sor though we
could see the slame in the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing os us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting sor day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason to
expect it, the strip blew up in the air, and immediately
(that is to say, in a sew minutes) all the sire was out;
that is to say, the rest os the ship sunk. This was
terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, sor the sake os
the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either ail de-
stroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boats in the middle os the ocean, which, at presentsrom
its being dark, I could not see; however, to direct them
as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all
the parts os the ship where we could, and which we had
Ian thorns sor, and kept siring guns all the night long; let-
ting them know by this, that there was a ship not sar uss.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help os our perspective-glasses;
and sound there were two os them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water. We perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our
ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them, and hung a wait out, as a signal tor them
to ccrac on board ;- and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. In a little more than hals an hour,
we came up with them; and, in a woi d, took them all
in, being no less than sixty-sour men, women, and chil-
dren; sor there were a great many passengers.
M 3 Upon
Upon the whole, we sound itwasaFrenchmerchant-shiu
os 3cc tons, homeward-bound srom Quebec; in the river
os Canada. The master gave us a long account os the
distress os his ship, how the sire began in the steerage,
b}' the negligence os the steersman; but, on his crying
out foi'htlp, was, as every body thought, entireiy put
out. But they soon found, that some sparks os the sirst
sire had got into some part os the ship, lo disssicult to
come.at, that they could not esscctually quench it; and
asterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the ceiling os the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then, but to get into their
boat6, which to their great comsort, were pretty large;
being their long-boat, and a. great shallop, besides a
small skiss, which was os no great service to them, other
than to get some sresh water and provisions into her, aster
they had secured themselves srom the sire. They had
indeed small hope os their lives by getting into these
boats at that distance srom any land; only, as they justly
said, that they were escaped srom the fire, and had a pos-
sibility that some ship might happen to be at sea and
might take them in. They had sails, oars, and a com-
pass, and were preparing to make the best os their way
to Newsoundland, the wind blowing pretty sair; sor it
blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They had as much
provision artl water, as, with sparing it so as to be
pearly starving, might support them about twelve days;
in which, is they had no bad weather, and no contrary
winds, the captain laid, he hoped he might get to the
Banks os Newsoundland, and might perhaps take some
sish to sustain them till they might go on shore. But
there were so many chances against them in all these
cafes; such a? storms to overset and sounder them;
rains and cold to benumb and perish their limbsi con-
trary winds to keep them out and starve them;
that it must have bee.i next to miraculous is they
nail escaped.
In
• In the midst ot" these consultations, every one being
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain with tears in
his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprized with
the joy os hearing a gun sire, and aster that sour more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at
first seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and
gave them the notice, which, as above, I designed it
Ihould, viz. that there was a ship at hand sor their
help.
It was upon the hearing os these guns that they took
down their masts and sails; and the sound coming srom
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some
time aster this, hearing no more guns, they sired three
mufquets, one, a considerable while aster another; but
these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time aster that again, they were still more agree-
ably surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the
guns, which, as I have said, I caused to be sired all thy
rest os the night; this set them to work with their oars
to keep their boats a-head, at least that we might the
sooner come up with them; and at last, to their inex-
pressible joy, they sound we saw them.
It is impossible sor me to express the several ges-
tures, the st;range extasies, the variety os postures,
which these poor delivered people run into, to express
the joy os their souls at so unexpected a deliverance;
gries and fear are easily deseribed; sighs, tears, groans,
and a very sew motions os head and hands, make up
the sum os its variety; but an excess os joy, a surprize
os joy, has a thousand extravagancies in it; there
were some in tears, some raging and tearing them-
selves, as is they had been in the greatest agonies os
soirowi some stark raving and downright lunatic;
some ran about the ship stamping with their seet, others
wringing their hands; some were dancing, several sing-
ing, some laughing, more crying; many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning, and ready to saint; and a sew were
crossing themselves, and giving God thanks.
I would
I would not wrong them neither; there might be
many that were thankful asterward; but the passion
was too strong tor them at sirst, and they were not able
to master iti they were thrown into extasies and a kind
os srenzv, and so there were but a very sew who were
composed -anil serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
srom the particular circumstance os the nation they be-
longed to i I mean, the French, whose temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
ami their spirits more sluid, than os other nations. I
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen besore came up to it; the exta-
sies poor Friday, my trusty savage was in, when he sound
his rather in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the
surprize ot the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered srom the two villains that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is sarther observeable, that these extravagancies
did not shew themselves in that disserent manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the variety
would appear in a short succession os moments in one
and tht same person. A man that we saw this minute
dumb, and, as it were, stupid and consounded, should
the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic;
and the next moment tearing his hair, or pulling his
cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under his feet like
a madman; a sew minutes aster that, we should have
him all in tears, then sick, then swooningi and had not
immediate help been had, would, in a sew moments
more, have been dead i and thus it was, not with one
or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest part os
them; and, ir I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to bleed above tiiirty os them.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man, and the other a young man; and that which
was strangest was, that.the oldest man was the worst.
2. As
As soon as he set his soot on board our ship, and sa\V
himsels sase, he dropped down stone-dead, to all ap-
pearance; not the least sign os lisc could be perceived i;i
him; our surgeon immediately applied proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having sirst chased and rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this
the blood, which only dropped at sirst, slowed something
sreely; in three minutes aster the man opened his eyes;
and about a quarter os an hour aster that he spoke,
grew better, and in a little time quite welli aster the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was
persectly well, took a dram os cordial, which the for*
geon gave him, and was, what we call come to himsels.
About a quarter os "an hour aster this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had sainted, and told him the priest
was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve
the change os his circumstances in his mind, and this
put him into an extasy os joyi his spirits whirled about
saster than the vessels could convey them; the blood
grew hot and severish i and the man was as sit sor Bed-
lam as any creature that ever was in iti the surgeon
would not bleed him again in that condition, bat gave
him something to doze and put him to steep; which,
aster some time operated upon him, and he waked next
rnorning persectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved himsels with great com-
mand os his passion, and was really an example os a
serious well-governed mind. At his sirst coming on,
board the ship, he threw himsels slat ca his sace, prottrat-
ing himsels in thanksulness sor his deliverancei, in which'
I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he had been a swoon; but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks sor his,
deliverancei begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker^ he would give me
thanks also,
| was
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him i and not only
left him-, but kept others srom interrupting him also. He
continued in that posture about three minutes, or a little
more, aiter I lest him i then came to me, as he had said
he woul.i, and with a great deal os serioushess and asscc-
tion, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, who had
under God, given him and so manymiserable creatures
their lives. I told him, I had no cause to move him to
thank God sor it rather than me, ser I had seen that he
had done that already i but I added, that it was nothing
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and
that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to
God, who had blessed us so sar as to make us the instru-
ments ot his mercy to so many os his creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himsels to his
country-solks, laboured to compose them i persuaded,
;ntreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his ut-
most to keep them within the exercise os their reasoni
and with some he had success, though others were, sor a
time, out os all government os themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whote hands it may sall,
ia the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies os
their passionsi sor is an excess os joy can carry men out
to luch a length beyond the reach os their reason, what
will not the extravagancies os anger, rage, and a pro-
voked mind carry us to! And, indeed, here I saw rea-
son sor keeping an extraordinary watch over our passions
os every kind, as well thole os joy and satissaction, as
those ot sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagan-
cies among our new guests sor the sirst day i but when
they had retired to lodgings provided sor them as well
as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartilv, as
most os them did, being satigued and srightened, they
were quite another sort os people the next day.
Nothmg os good manners, or civil acknowledge-
ments sor the kindness shewn them, was wanting i the
French, it is known, are naturally apt enough to ex-
ceed
eeed that way. The captain and one os the priests
came to me the next davi and, desiring to speak with
me and my nephew, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and sirst they told us, that,
as we had saved their lives, so all they had was little
enough as a return to us sor the kindness received.
The captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things os value in their boats, catched hastily out os the
slames; and is we would accept it, they were ordered
to make an osser os it all to us; they only desired to be
set on shore somewhere in our way, where, is possible,
they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was sor accepting their money at the sirst
word, and considering what to do with them asterwards i
but I over-ruled him in that part, sor I knew what it
was to be set on more in a strange country; and is the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all I had sor my deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portugueze is not a much
better master than a Turk, ir not, in some cases, a.
much worse.
I theresore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true; but that it was
cur duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered it we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
sor them but what we believed they would have done
sor us, is we had been in their case anil they in curs;
but that we took them up to serve them, not to plunder
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing to
take that little srom them which they had laved out os
the sire, and then set them on shore and leave them;
sor this would be sirst to lave them srom death, and then
kill them ourselves; save them srom drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and theresore I would
not let the least thing be taken srom them. As to fet-
tling them, on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an ex-
ceeding
teeding great dissiculty to us, sor the ship was bound to
the East-Indies; and though we were driven out os our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
Was directed by Heaven on purpose sor their deliverance^
yet it was impotsible sor us wilsully to change our voy-
age on this particular accounti nor could my nephew)
the captain, answer it to the sreighters, with whom he
was under charter party to pursue his voyage by the
way ot Brazil; and all I knew he could do sor them
was, to put ourselves in the way os meeting with other
ships homeward-bound srom the West-Indies, and get
them passage, is possible, to England or Fiance.
The sirst part os the proposal was so generous and
kind, that they could not but be very thanksul sor it;
but they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion os being carried away to the East
Indies. They then intreated me, that seeingl wasdriven
so sar to the westward besore I met with them, I would
at least keep on the same course to the Banks os New-
soundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ship or stoop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, srom whence they came;
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part, and theresore I was inclined to agree to it; sor in-
deed, I considered, that to cany this whole company to
the East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity
to the poor people, but would be ruining our whole
voyage by devouring all our i rovisions; so I thought
it no breach os charter-party, but what an Unsoreseen'
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which
no one could say we were to blame i sor the.laws os
God and nature would have sorbid that we mould resuse
to take up two boats sull os people in such a distressed
Conditioni and the nature os the thing, as well respect-
ing ourlelves as the poor people, obliged us to lee them
on shore, somewhere or other for their deliverancei so I
consented that we should carry them to Newsoundland,
is wir.d and weather would permiti and, is not, that I
would cany them to Martinico, in the West-Indies.
The
The wind continued srelh easterly, but the weather
pretty goodi and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
isveral opportunities os sending them to Francei sor we
rret several ships bound to Europe, whereos two were
French, srom St. Christopher's; but they had been so
letig beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no passengers, sor sear os wanting provisions sor the
voyr.ge, as well sor themselves as sor those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week aster this, that we made the Banks os Newsound,
land; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French'
pecple oit board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them on shore, and asterwards to carry them to
Frrmce, is they could get provision to victual themselves
with. When I say all the French went on shore, I
si.oi Id remember, that the young priest I speke os,
hearing we were bound to the East-Indies, desired to go
the voyage with us, and to be let on more on the ccaii cs
Coromandeli I readily agreed to that; sor I wonder-
sully likeTd the m?n, and hp.d very good reason, as
will appear asterwards; also sour os the seamen
entered themselves in our ship, and proved very use-
sul sellows.
From hence we directed our course sor the West-In-
dies, steering away S. and S. by E. sor about twenty
days together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when
we met with another subject sor our humanity to work
uj on, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude os twenty-seven degrees, sive
minutes N. aniHthe 19th day os March, 1694-5, when
we espied a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to
us; but could not at sirst know what to rrske os her,
till aster coming a little nearer, we sound she had lost
her main-top-mast, sore-mast, and boltsprit; and pre-
sently she sired a gun as a signal os distress; the weather
was pretty good, wind at N. N. W. a siesh ga'e, and
v.e soon came to speak with her.
Vol. H. 30. N We
We sound her a ship os Bristol, bound home ssorrt
Barbadoes, but had been blown out ot' the road at Bar-
badoes, a'sew days besore she was ready to sail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chies mate
were both gone on shore; so that, beside the terror os
the storm, they were but in an indisscrent case sor good
artists to bring the ship home; they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm aster the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out os their knowledge to the westward, and
in which they lost their masts, as above. They told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but
were driven away again to the south-east, by a strong
gale os wind at N. N.W. the same that blew now, and
having no sails to work the ship with, but a main-course
and a kind os square sail upon a jury-soremast, which
they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, but
were endeavouring to stand away sor the Canaries.
But that which was worst os all was, that they were
almost starved sor want os provisions; besides the sa-
tigues they had undergone, their bread and slesh was
quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and
had had none sor eleven days; the only relies they had
was, their water was not all spent, and they had about
hals a barrel os slour lest; they had sugar enough ; some
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured; and they had seven casks os rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to sa 1, unhappily came on board
the evening besore the hurricane begat]; and, having
no provisions os their own lest, they were in a morede-
plorable condition than the rest; sor the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, hud na
compassion, we may be sure, sor the poor passengers;
and they were indeed, in suel) a condition, that tiieir
misery is very hard to describe.
I had, perhaps, not known this part, is my curio-
sity had not led me, the weather being sair, and the
wind
wind abated, to go on board the ship. The second
mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship; and he told me, indeed, that
they had three passengers in the great cabin, and that
thev were in a deplorable condition i 'Nay (says he) I
• believe they are dead, sor I have heard nothing os them
• sor above two days ; and I was afraid to enquire aster
'them, sor I had nothing to relieve them with.'
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relies we could spare; and, indeed, I had so sar over-
ruled things with my nephew, thV I would have vic-
tualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia, or
any part ot the coast os America, to have supplied our-
selves; but there was no necessity tor that.
But now they were in a new danger; sor they were
asraid os eating too much, even os that little we gave
them. The mare or commander brought six men with
him in this little boat; but these poor wretches looked
like skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly sit
to their oarsi the mate himsels was very ill, and hals-
starved; sor he declared he had reserved nothing srom
the men, and went share and share alike with them in
every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingl)', but set meat be-
sore him immediately, and he had not eaten three
mouthsuls besore he began to be sick and out os or-
der; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him
up something with some broth, which he said would
be to him both sbod and physic; and aster he had
taken it, he grew betteri in the mean time, I sorgot
not the men; I ordered victuals to be given them, and
the poor creatures rather devoured than eat it; they
were so exceeding hungry! that they were in a manner
ravenous, and had no command os themselves; and two
os them cat with so much greediness, that they were in
danger os their lives the next morning.
The sight os these people's distress was very moving
tome, and brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect
os at mv sirst coming on sbore in my island, where I
3 N z had
had not the least mouthful of food, or any hopes of
procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had of
being made the food of .other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miferable
(Condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabini viz. the mother, her
ion, and the maid-fervant, whom he had heard nothirg
of for two or three days; and whom he feemed to con-
fefs they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being fo great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all, and that therefore
they mutt be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps,
on the sloor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men, to refresh them, fo I
alfo forgot not the starving crew that were left on
board, but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and with my mate and twelve men to carry
them a feck of bread, and four or sive pieces of beet'
to boil. Our furgeon charged the men to caufe the
meat to be boiled while they staid, and to keep guard
in thecook.room, so prevent the men's taking it to eat
jt raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was weil
boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a
timei and by this caution he preferved the men, who
would otherwife have killed themfelves with that very
tood that was given them on purpofe to fave their lives.
At the fame time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and lee in what condition the poor passen-
gers were; and if they were alive, to comfort them,
and give them what refreshment was proper, and the
Jiirgeon gave him a large pitcher of fome of the pre-
pared broth which he had given the mate that was on
board, and which he did not question would restore them
gradually.
I was now fatissied with thisi but, as I faid above,
having a great mind to see the scene of mifery, which I
foiew the ship itfelf would prefent me with, in a more
lively
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took
the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me,
and went myfelf a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men onboard almost in a tumult to
get the victuals cut of the boiler before it was ready.
But my mate obferved his order, and kept a good guard
at the cook-room door; and the man he placed there,
after using all pofsible perfuasion to have patience, kept
them off by forcei however, lie caufed fome bifcuit-
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened them with
the liquor of the meat, which they call breivis, and gave
them every one one, to stay their stomachsi and tpld
them, it was for their own fasety that he was obliged
to give them but little at a time. But it was all in
vain; and had I not come on board, and their own
commander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats alfo os giving them no mere, I believe
they would have broke into my cook-room by force,
and tore the meat out of the surnace; for words, indeed,
are of very fmall force to an hungry belly. However,
we pacisied them, and sed them gradually and cauti-
ously for the sirst time, and the next time gave them
more, and at last silled their bellies, and the men did
well enough.
But the mifery of the poor passengers in the cabin
was of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as,
sirst, the siiip's company had fo little sor themfelves, it
was but too true, that they had at sirst kept them very
low, and at last totally neglected them; so that forsix or
feven days, it might be faid, they really had no food at
all, and for several days before very little.
The poor mother who, as the sirst mate reported, was
a woman of good fenfe and good breeding, had fpared
all slie could get fo affectionately for her son, that at
last she entirely funk under it; and when the mate of
our fhip went in, me fat upon the sloor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head funk in between
her shoulders, like a corpfe though not quite dead. My
M 3 mate
mate laid all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She
opened her lips, and listed up one hand, but could nor
sp;aki yet she understood what he said, and made signs
to him, intimating, that it was too late sor her; hut
pointed to her child, as is she would have said, they
should take care os him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
with the sight, endeavoured to get some os the broth
into her mouth; and as he said, got two or three spoon-
suls down, though I question whether he could be sure
os it or noti but it was too late, and Ihe died the
same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price os his
most asscctionate mother's lise, was not so sar gone ; yet
lie lay in a cabin-bed, as one stretched out, with hardly
'any lise lest in himi he had a piece os an old glove in
his mouth, having eaten up the rest os it; however, be-
ing young, and having more strength than his mother,
the mate got something down his throat, and he began
sensibly to revive; though by giving him, some time as-
ter, but two or three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was
very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all
along upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like
one that had sallen down with an apoplexy, and strug-
gled sor lisei her limbs were distorted; one os her hands
was clasped round the srame os one chair, and she griped
it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go;
her other arm layover her head, and her seet lay both
together, let sast against the srame os the cabin-table;
in short she lay just like one in the last agonies os death,
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrissied with the thoughts os death, but, as the
men told us asterwards, was broken-hearted sor her
mistress, whom slie saw dying two or three days besore,
.and whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; sor
when
when our surgecn, who was a man os very great know-
ledge and experience, had with great application reco-
vered her as to lise, he had her upon his hand as to
her senses; sor she was little less than distracted sor a
considerable time aster.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
sired to-consider, that visits at sea are not like a journey
into the country, where sometimes people stay a week
or a sortnight at a place. Our business was to relieve
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by sor them; and
though they were willing to steer the same course with
us sor some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep
pace with a ship that had no masts. However, as their
captain begged os us to help him to set up a main-top-
mast, and a kind os top-mast to his jury-sore-mast, we
did, as it were, lie by him sor three or sour days; and
then having given him sive barrels os bees and pork,
two hogsheads os biscuit, and a proportion os peas,
flour, and what other things we could spare; and tak.
ing three casks os sugar, and some rum, and some pieces
os eight os them sor satissaction, we lest them; taking
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the
youth and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years os age, a
pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
dejected with the loss os his mother, and, as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months besore at Barba-
does. He begged os the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out ot the ship; sor, he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed, so they had, that
is to say, passively; sor they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no sriend, no relation, no
justice, no right; and theresore is remorieless, and ca-
pable os no compassion.
The surgeon told him how sar we were going, and that
it would cany him "away srom all his sriends, and put
him pei haps, in as bad circumstances almost as we sound
them
them, that is to say, starving in the world. He sair!,
it mattered not whither he went, it he was but deli-
vered srom the terrible crew that he was amongi that
the captain (by which he meant me, sor he could know-
nothing os my nephew) had saved his lise, and he was
sure would not hurt him, and as sor the maid, he was
sure, is she came to hersels, she would be very thanksul
sor it, let us carrv them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them on board, with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads os sugar, which could
not be removed or come at; and as the youth had a bill
os lading sor them, I made his commander sign a writ-
ing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bristol,
to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote
to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the de-
ceased widow,which I suppose was not done ; sor I could
never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as
is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a con-
dition, and so sar srom any land, that I am os opinion,
the sirst storm she met with asterwards slie might soun-
der in the lea; sor she was leaky, and had damage in
her hold when I met with her.
I was now in the latitude os 19 degrees 32 minutes,
and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather,
though at sirst the winds had been contrary. I shall not
trouble my readers with the little incidents os wind, wea-
ther, currents, &c. on the rest os our voyage; but short-
ening my storv sor the sake os what is to sollow, shall
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on
the iothos April, 1695. It was with no small d.ssi-
culty that I sound the piace; tor as I came to it, and
went srom it besore, on the south and east-side os the
island, as coming srom the Brazils, so now coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart sor
the coast, nor any land-mark, I did not know it when I
saw it, or know whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on s'.
ycral
veral islands in the mouth os the great River Oroonoque,
but nene sor my purpose; only this I learned by my
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake
besore, viz. that the continent, which I thought I saw
srom the island I lived in was really no continent,.but 1
long island, or rather a ridge os islands, reaching srom
one to the other side os the extended mouth os that great
riveri and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly thole which we call Caribbees, but
islanders, and other barbarians os the same kind, who
inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several os the islands to no purposes
some 1 sound weie inhabited, and some were not. On
one os them I sound some Spaniards, and thought they
had lived there; but, speaking with them, sound they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch pearl mussels is they
could, but they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which
lay sai ther north, in the latitude os 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting srom one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
(which we had sound a convenient boat, and theresore
kept her with their very good will) at length I came
sair on the south-side os my island, and I presently knew
the very countenance os the place; so I brought the
ship sase to an anchor, broadside with the little creek
where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called sor Friday, and
asked him it he knew where he was. He looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried—' O yes!
'O there! 6 yes! O there!' pointing to our old habi-
tation, and sell a dancing and capering like a mad sel-
low, and I had much ado to keep him srom jumping
into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
'Well, Friday, (said I) do you think we shall sind
* any body here or no? And what do you think, shall
'we see your sather?' The sellow stood mute as a
stock a good while; but when I named his sather, the
poor affectionate creature looked dejected; and I could
see
see the tears ruii down his sace very plentisully. 'What
* is the matter, Friday? (laid I) are you troubled be-
'cause you may lie your father ?'—'No, no, (says he
shaking his head) no see him more, no ever mere see
* again.—' Why so (said I) Friday? How do you
* know that?—(O no! O no! say Friday) he long ago
* die; long ago, he much old man.—Well, well (said
I) Friday you don't know. But shall we see any one
* else then?' The scllow, it seems, had better eyes
than I, and he pointed just to the hill above my old
house, and though we lay hall a league oss, he cried
out—' Me see! me see! yes, yes, me see much man
there, and there, and there.' I looked, but I could see
nobody, no, not with a perspective-glass; which was,
I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for the
scllow was right, as I sound upon enquiry the next day,
and there were sive or six men altogether stood to look
at the ship, not knowing what to think os us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and sired three
guns, to give them notice we were sriends; and about
nais a quarter os an hour aster, we perceived a smoke
rile srom the side os the creek; so I immediately or-
dered a boat out, taking Friday with me;'and, hang-
ing out a white slag, or a slag os trace, I went directly
en shore, taking with me the young sriar I mentioned,
to whom I had told the whole story os my living
there, and the manner os it, and every particular, both
os mysels and thole I left there; and who was, on that
account, extremely desirous to go with me. We had
besides about sixteen men very well armed, is we had
sound any new guest there which we did not know os;
but we had no need os weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide os slood, near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek, and the
sirst man I sixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, and whom I knew by his sace per-
scctly well; a:i to his habit, I shall describe it aster-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at sirst but my-
sels
sels, but there was no keeping Friday in the boat; ser
the assectionate creature had spied his sather at a dis-
tance, a good way oss os the Spaniards, where indeed I
saw nothing os him; and, is they had not let him go on
shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He was no
sooner on. shore, but he slew away to his sather like an
arrow out os a bow. It would have made any man
fiied tears, in spite os the sirmest resolution, to have seen
tiie sirst transports os this poor fellow's joy when he
came to his sather; how he embraced him, kissed him,
stroaked his sace, took him up in his arms, set him
down upon a tree, and laid down by him; then stood
and locked at him, as any one would look at a strange
picture, sor a quarter os an hour together; then laid
down upon the ground, and'streaked his legs, and kissed
them, and then got up again, and stared at himi one
v.'ouldhave thought the sellow bewitched. But it would
have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his pas-
sion ran out another way. In the morning he walked
along the shore, to-and-again, with his sather, several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as is he had
been a lady; and every now and then would come to
setch something cr other sor him to the boat, either a
lump os sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, cr something or
other that was good. In the asternoon his sollies ran
another way; sor then he would set the old man down
upon the ground, and dance about him, and made a
thousand antick pestures and gestures; and all the
while he did t|iis, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another os his travels, and os
what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In
short, is the iame silial affection was to be sound in Chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts os the world, one
would be tempted to lay, there hardly would have bet 11
anv need ot the sisth commandment.
But this is a digression. I return to my landing.
It would be endless to take notice os all the ceremonies
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The
this Spaniard, whom as I (bid, I knew very well, was
he
he whose lise I saved. He came towards the boat, at-
tended by one more, carrying a slag os truce alii); and
he did" not only not know me at sirst, but lie had no
thoughts, no notion os its being me that was come,
till I ipoke to him. * Sigr.ior (iaid I), in Portug;ueze
'do you not know me?' At which he spoke not a
word; but, giving his inusquet to the man that was
with him, extended his arms, ar.d saying something in
Spanish, that I did not persectly hear, came sorward,
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcuseable not
to know that sace again, that he had once seen, as os an
angel srom heaven, lent to save his lise. He said abun-
dance os very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the person
that attended him, bade him go and call out his com-
redes. He then asked me, is I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession os my
own house again, and where I should see there had
been but mean improvements. So I walked along with
him; but alas! I could no more sind the place again,
than is I had never been there; sor they had planted so
many trees, and placed them in luch a posture, so thick
and close to one another, in ten years time they were
grown so big, that in short, the place was inaccessible
except by such windings and blind ways as they them-
selves only who made them could sind.
I asked them what put them upon all these sortisica-
tions. He told me, I would say there was need enough os
it, when they had given an account how they had passed
their time since their arriving in the istand, especially
aster they had the missortune to sind that I was gone.
He told me he could not but have some pleasure in my
good fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good
"iip, and to my satissaction ; and that he had ostentimes a
strong persuasion, that one time or other he should sec
me again. But nothing that ever besel him in his lise,
he laid, was so surprizing and afflicting to him at sirst,
as the disappointment he was under when he came back
to the island, and sound I was not there.
3 As
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that-
were lest behind, and os whom, he iaid, he had a long
story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought themselves
much better among the savages, only that there number
was so small. 'And,' says he, ' had they been strong
'enough, we had been all song ago in purgatory!' And
with that lie crosstd hunsels upon the breast. 'But,
'Sir,' says he, ' I hope you will not be displeadd,
'when I shall tell you how, sorced by necessity, we were
• obliged, sor our own preservation, to disarm them,
'and make them our subjects, who would not be coi:-
'tent, with being moderately our masters, but would
'be our murderers.' I answered, I was greatly
asraid os it when I lest them there; and nothing trou-
bled me at my parting srom the ithnd, but that they
were not come back, that I might have put them in
possession os every thing sirst, and lest the others in a
state os subjection, as they deservedi but is they hi'.d
reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be very
sar srom sinding any sault with it; sor I knew they
were" a parcel os resractory ungovernable villains., and
were sit sor any manner os mischies.
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, and with .him eleven men more. In the
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what
nation they were os; but he made all clear both to then}
and to me. First, he turned to me, and pointing to
them, said—' These, Sir, are some os them os the gen-
* tlemen who owe their lives to you.' And then turn-
ing to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who
I was; upon which they all came up one by one, not
as is they had been sailors and ordinary sellows, and the
like,, but really, as is they had been ambassadors or no-
blemen, and I a monarch or a great conqueror. Their
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteous,
and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which
very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than J, that I scarce kneWliow to
Vol. II. 30. O receive
receive their civilities, much less how to return them
in kind..
The history os their coming to, and conduct in the
island, aster my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the sormer part os my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in most os the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given
that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the
leading os those that come aster me.
I shall no longer protract the story with a relation in
the sirst person, which will put me to theexpence osten
thousand/aid Vs, a.\\&said he's, and be told me's, and/
told bim'j, and the like; but I shall collect the sacts his-
torically, as near as I can gather them out os my me-
mory srom what they related to me, and srom what I
met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as
I can, I must go back to the circumstances in which I
lest the island, and which the persons were in os whom
I am to speak. At sirst it is necessary to repeat, that I
had sent away Friday's sather and the Spaniard, the two
whose lives I had rescued srom the savages ; I say, I had
sent them away in a large canoe to the main (as I then
thought it) to sctch over the Spaniards companions
whom he had lest behind him, in order to save them srom
the like calamity that he had been in; and in order to
succour them sor the .present, and that, is potsible, we
might together sind some way sor our deliverance as-
terwards.
When I sent them away I had no visible appearance
os, or the least room to hope sor, my own deliverance,
any more- than I had twenty years besore; much less
had I any soreknowledge os what aster happened; I mean
os an English ship coming ashore there to setch them
off; and is could not but be a very great surprize to
them, when they came back, not or.lv to sind that I was
gone, but to sind three strangers lest or. the s'pot, pos-
sssted
fcssed os all that I had left behind me, which would
otherwise have been their own.
The sirs! thing, however, which I enquired into, that
I might begin where I lest oss, was os their own part;
and I desired he would give me a particular account os
his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when
I sent him to setch them over. He told me there was
little variety in that part; sor nothing remarkable hap-
pened to them 011 the way, they having very calm wea-
ther and a smoofh iea; sor his countrymen, it could
not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to
sce himi (it seems he was the principal man among them,
the captain os the vessel they had been shipwrecked in
having been dead some time.) They were, he said, the
more surprized to see him, because they knew he was
sallen into the hands os savages, who, they were satis-
lied, would devour him, as they did all the reft os their
prisoners i that when lie told them the story os his de-
liverance, and in what manner he was surnished sor car-
rying them away, it was like a dream to them; and
their astonishment, they said, was something like that
os Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was,
and related the story os his exaltation in Pharaoh's court.
But when he shewed them the arms, the powder, the
ball, and the provisions that he brought them sor their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves,
took a just share os the joy os their deliverance, and im-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part os it, but to trespass upon their sriendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes or ptriagnas, on pre-
tence os going out a sishing or sor pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning. It
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, sor
they had no baggage, neither cloaths nor provisions,
nor any thing in the world but what they had on them,
-and a sew roots to eat, os which they used to make
their bread.
O a They
They were in nil three weeks abent; ami in that
time, unluckily sor them, I had the occasion offered tor
mv escape, as I mentioned besore, and to get off from
the island; leaving three os the most unpudent, harden-
ed, ungovernable, disagreeable villains, behind me, that
any man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniard's
great gries and disappointment, you maybe lure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was that when
the Spaniards came on sliore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions and other relies, as I
had ordered them to do; aliothey gave them the long
paper os directions, which I had lest with them, con-
tain.ng the particular methods which I took sor ma-
naging every part os my lise there; the way I
baked my bread, bred up my tame goats and planted
my corn'; howl cured my grapes, made my pots, and,
in a word, every thing I did; all this being written
down, they gave to the Spaniards, two os whom under-
stood English well enough; nor did thev resuse to ac-
commodate the Spaniards with any thing else, sor they
agreed very well sor some time; they gave them an
equal admiilion into the house or cave, and they began
to live very sociably; and the head Spaniard, who .had
ieen pretty much os my method, and Friday's sather
together, managed all their affairs; sor, as sor the
Englishmen) they did nothing but ramble about the
jiland, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they
came home at night the Spaniards provided their suppers
sor them.
The Spaniards would have been satissied with this,
would the others but have let them alone; which, how-
-ever, they could not sind in their hearts to do long,
but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themielves, and would not let others eat neither. The
differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial,"and
iiicli as are not worth relating; but at last it broke out
jntoopen wary.and it began with all the rudeness and
ir.orence that can be unagined, without reason, with-
out provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to com-
mon
mon fense; and though it is true, the sirst relation or' it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the accufers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word os it.
But before I cofne to the particulars of this part, I
must fupply a defect in my former relation; and this
was, that I forgot to fet down among the rest, that,
just as iwe were weighing anchor to fet fail, there hap-
pened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was
afraid once would turn to a fecond mutiny; nor was it
appeafed, till the captain, rouzing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and
making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners,
he laid them in irons; and as they had been active in
the former diforders, and let fall ibme dangerous words
the second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there foi mutinv and
.runningaway with the ship.
This it feems, though the captian did not intend to do
it, flighted lbme other men in the ship; and fome of
them had put it into the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to seme Englisti port, and that then they
mould be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired that 1, who still
pasted for a great man among them, should go down
with the mare, and fatisfy the men, and tell them, that'
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
riie voyage, all they had done for the'time past should be
pardoned. So I went; and aster pasting my honour's
word to them, they appeared eaiy; and the more fo,
when I caused the two mew, who had been laid in irons,
to be releafed and sorgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us tp an anchor forthat
night, the wind also falling calm. Ne*t morning, we
found that our two men who had been laid in irons, had'
stole each of them a musket, and ibme other weapon*;
what powder or shot they had, we knew not; and had
taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up,
and run away wii.Ii her to their companions in roguery
on ihore.
As ibon as we found this, I ordered the long boat
on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to icek the rogues; but they could neither sind
them nor any of the rest; sor they allsled into the woods
when they taw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once reiblved in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their pianta'ions, burnt all their housliold stuff
and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but
having no order, he lei all alone, lest every thing as
they iound it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on
board without them.
Tiicic two men made their number sive; but the other
three villains were fo much more wicked than these, that
aster they had been two or three days together, they
turned their two new-comers out or doers to shift tor
themfelves; and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they, for fome time, be perfuaded to
give them any food. As for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came sirst on shore, the businefs
began to go sorward.; the Spaniards would have per.
iiiaued tiie three Englifh brutes to have taken in their .
two countrymen agam, that as they laid, they might
be all one family; but they would not hear ot it. So
the two poor feliows lived by themlelves; and, sinding
nothing but industry and application would make them
five comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore 01 the ifland, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the favages, who always landed on
the e.isi parts ot t ie iiiand,
Herts they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to tsy up thew magazines and stores in; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for feed, efpe-
cially some of the peas which I had iett them* they dug,
and planted, and mclofed, after the pattern I had fet for
them all, and began to live pretty well. T.xir sir$
crop
*rop os corn was. on the ground; and, though it was
but a little bit or'kind which they had dug up at sirst,
having had but a short time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and furmsli them with bread and other eat-
ables; and cne os the sellows, being the cook's mate
os the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings,
and such other preparations, ac the rice and milk, and
such little slesh as they got, turnished him to do. ,
- They were going on in a little thriving way, when
the three unnatural rogues, t^eir own countrymen toe,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession os it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them,
they should build no houses upon their ground, uniess
they would pay them'rent sor them.
s. The two men thought they had jested at sirst i and
asked them to come and sit down, and lee what sine
hoiiies they were that they had built, and tell them
what rent they .demanded. And one os them merrily
tola them, is they were ground-landlords, he hoped, is
they buiit tenements upon the land, and made improve-
ments, they would, according to the custom os all land-
lords, grant them a long lease, aud bid them go setch
a scrivener to draw up the writings. One os the
three, damning, and raging, told them, they should see
they were not in jest; and gomg to a little place at a
distance, where the honest men had made a sire to dress
'their victuals, he took a sire-brand, and clapped it to
the outside ot their hut, and iet it on sire; and it would
.have been all burnt down in a Jew minutes, it one os the
two had not run to the sellow, thrust him away, and
trod the sire out with his seet, and that not without
some dissiculty.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honest maiss
thrustmg him away, that he turned upon him with a
poh- he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided
the blow very nimbly, ana run into the hut, he had
ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the dan-
ger
ger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediate-
lv they came both out with their muskets; and the man
that was sirst struck at with the pole, knocked the fel-
low down who began the quarrel, with the stock os his
musket, and that besore the other two could come to
help him i and then seeing the reft come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends os their
pieces to them, bade them stand ofs. >
. The others had sire-arms with them; but one os the
two honest men bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, is they osfered to
move hand or soot, they were all dead men, and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him reso-
lute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and, indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sussiciently
with the blow i however, they were much in the wrong, -
since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them essectually, as they might have done, and have
gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an
account how the rogues had treated them; sor the three
villains studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave
them some intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account os the
lesser part os their rogueries; soch as treading down
their corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat,
which the poor men had got to breed up tame sor their
store; and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it sorced the two men to such a despera-
tion, that they resolved to sight them all three the sirst
time they had a sair opportunity. In order to this they
resolved to gc^to the castle, as they called it, that was
my old'dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spa-
niards all lived together at that time, intending to have
a sair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see
sair play. So they got up in the morning besore day,
and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wantT
ed to speak with, them, It
It happened that the (Jay besore, two osthe Spaniante
having been in the woods, had seen one ot' the two En-
glishmen, whom, sor distinction I call the honest men,
and he had made a lad complaint to the Spaniards os
the barbarous usage they had met with srom their three
coWtrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard
to bring; sorward, and killed theii milch-goat and three
kids, wiiich was all they had provided for their suste-
nance; and that is he and his sriends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they mould be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the sreedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, in gentle and mannerly terms,
and alked them how they could be so cruel, they being
harmleis, inossensive sellows, and that th.jy were' put,
ting themselves in a way to iiibsist by their labour, and .
that it had cost them a great deal os pains to bring
things to such persection as they had.
One os the Englishmen returned very briskly—' What
* had they to do there »' that they came on shore with- .
out leave; and that they should not plant or build upon
the island; it was none os their ground. 'Why,'iays
the Spaniard, very calmly, ' Seignior Inglesc, they
must not starve!' The Englishman replied, like a true
rough hewn tarpaulin, they might starve and be damned!
they should not plant nor build in that place. 'But
* what must they do then, Seignior?' says the Spa-
niard. Another os the brutes returned,—' Do! d—n
'them! they sliould be servants, and work tor them.'
'But how can you expt ct that os them? They are not
'bought with your money; you have no right to make
'them servants.' The Englishman aniwcred, the
island was theirs, the governor had given it to them,
ar.d no man had any thing to do there but themselves;
and with that swore by his Maker, that he would go
and hurn all their new huts; they sliould build none
upon their land.
'Why, Seignior,' says the Spaniard, ' by the same
'rule
* rule we must be your servants too.'—' Aye,' says the
bold dog,' and so you shall too, besore we have done
* with you;' mixing two or three G—d damme's in
the proper intervals os his speech. The Spaniard only
smiled at that, and made him no answer. However,
this little discourse had heated them; and starting up,
one says to the other, (I think it was he they called
Will Atkins)—' Come Jack, letusgoandhavet'other
« brush with themi We'll demolish their castle, I'll
* warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our do
* minions.' _
Upon this, they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol and a sword; and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, os what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity ossered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard sor taking the two
Englishmens parts. ,
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their tune
'that evening, the Spaniards laid they did not know;
but it seems they wandered about the country part of
the night, and then lying down in the place which I used
to call my bower, thev were weary, and oversteps them-
selves. The cate was this i they had resolved to stay
till midnight, and so to take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it asterwards, in-
tending to set sire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out. And as malice seldom steeps Very sound,
it was strange they should not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much fairer one than that
os burning and murdering, it happened, and very luc-
kily sor them all, that they Were up and gone abroad
besore the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither, and sound the men gone,
Atkins, who, it teems was the sorwardest man, called
out to his comrades—' Ha, Jack! here's the nest; but,
« d—n
« d—h them, the birds are slown.' They mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion os their being gone
abroad so soon, and suggested presently, that the Spa-
niards had given them notice os it; and with that they
shook hands, and swore to one another that they would
be revenged os the Spaniards. As soon as they had
made this bloody bargain, they sell to work with the
poor men's habitation i they did not set sire, indeed, to
any thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and
pulled them so limb srom limb, that they lest not the
least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood; they tore all their little collected
houshold stusf in pieces, and threw every thing about in
such a manner, that the poor men sound asterwards,
some os their things a mile oss srom their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the
young trees which the poor men had planted; tore up
the inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and
their corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered eveiy
thing, as completely as a horde os Tartars would have
done:
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them
out, and had resolved to sight them wherever they had
been, though they were but two to threei so that, had
they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed
among them; sor they were all very stout, resolute sel-
lows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asun-
der, than they themselves could do to meet; sor, as they
had dogged one another, when the three were gone thi-
ther, the two were here; and asterwards, when the two
went back to sind them, the three were come to the old'
habitation again. We shall see their disscrent conduct
presently. When the three came back, like surious
creatures, slushed with the rage which the work they had
been about had put them into, they came up to the Spa-
. niards, and told them what they had done, by way of
scoss and bravado; and one os them stepping up to one
os the Spaniards, as is. they had-been a couple os boys
at
at play, takes bold ot his hat, as it was upon his head,
and giving it a twirl about, sleering in his sace, says to
him—' And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have
'the same saute, is you do not mend your manners.'
The Spaniard, who, though quite a cVil man, was as
brave as a man could be desired to be, and withal a
strong well-made man, looked steadily at him for some
time; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and, with one blow ot his sist,
knocked him down, as an ox is sclled with a pole-ax;
at which one os the rogues, insolent as the sirst, sired his
, pistos at the Spaniard unmediately; he missed his body,
indeed, sor the bullets went through his hair, but one
os them touched the tip os his ear, ard he bled pretty
much. The blood made the Spaniard believe that he
was more hurt than he really was, and that put him into
some heat, sor before he acted all in a persect calm; but
now resolving to go through with his work, he stooped,
and took the scllow's musleet whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
siied at him; when the rest os the Spaniards being
in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot,
they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their
arms srom them.
When they were thus disarmed, and sound they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and, giving the
Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards considering the seud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it
would be the best method they could take to keep them
srom one another, told them they would do them no
harm; and it they would live peaceably, thev would be
very willing to assist and associate with tliem as they did
besore; but that they could not think os giving them
their arms again, while they appeared jo resolved to do
mischies with them to their own contrymen, .vid had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reasop
f than
than to act reason; but being resused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening
what they would do, though they had no sire-arms.
But the Spaniards despising their threatening, told them
they mould take care how they osscred any injury to their
plantation or cattle; sor, is they did, they would shoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they
sound them; and, is they sell into their hands alive, they
would certainly be hanged. However, this was sar
srom cooling them; but away they went, swearing and
raging like suries os hell. As soon as they were gone,
came back the two men, in passion and rage enough
also, though os another kind; sor, having been at their
plantation, and sinding it all demolished and destroyed,
as above, it will easily be supposed they had provoca-
tion enoughi they could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them their's;
and it was strange enough to sind, that three men should
thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed them, made light os their threaten-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy
against them, what pains soever it cost to sind them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them
that they were already disarmed; they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with sire arms,
and perhaps kill them i ' But,' said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, ' we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, is you will leave it to us; sor, as
there is no doubt but they'will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
* our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
* them, without having a sull satissaction sor you ; and
* upon this condition, we hope you will promise to use
* no violence with them, other than in your desence.'
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to keep them srom bloodshea, and to
make all easy at last; ' sor,' said they, ' we are not
Vql. II. 30. P 'so
« so many os us; here is room enough sor us all, and
• it is great pity we should not be all good sriends.* At
length they did consent, and waited sor the issue, living
sor some days with the Spaniards, sor their own habi-
tation was destroyed.
In about sive days the three vagrants, tired with wan-
dering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiesly
lived on turtles eggs all the time, came back to the
grove; and Jinding my Spaniard, who, as I have said,
was the governor, and two more with him, walking by
the side os the creek, they came up in a very submissive
and humble manner, and begged to be received again
into the samily. The Spaniards used them civilly but
told them, they had acted so unnaturally by their coun-
trymen, and so very grossly by them, (the Spaniards)
that they could not come to any conclusion, without
consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, how-
ever, they would go to them and discourse about it, and
they mould know in hals an hour. It may be guessed,
that they were very hard put to it; sor it seems, as they
were to wait hals an hour sor an answer, they begged he
would send them out some bread in the mean time;
which he did, and sent them at the same time a large
pieoe os goat's slesh, and a broiled parrot ; which they
eat very heartily, sor they were hungry enough.
Aster hals an hour's consultation they were called in
and a long debate had about them, their two countrymen
charging them with the ruin os all their labour, and a
design to murder them; all which they owned besore,
and theresore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted as moderators between them; and
as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they
row obliged the three to go and rebuild their scllows
two huts, one to be os the same dimensions, and the
•tlier larger than they were besore; also to sence their
ground again, where they had pulled up the sences, plant
trees in the room os those pulled up, dig up the land
*;jain sor planting corn, where they had spoiled it; and
in a word, to restore every thing to the same state as thty
sound it, as near as they could; sor entirely it could
not be, the season sor the corn, and the growth os the
trees and hedges not being possible to be recovered.
They all submitted to this; and as they had plenty
os provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly
and agreeably together again; only these three sellow*
could never be persuaded to work; I mean, not sor
themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased i however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that
is they would but live sociably and sriendly together,
and study on the whol the good os the plantation, they
would be content to work sor 'them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thvis having
lived pretty well together sor a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and also liberty to go
abroad with them as besore.
It was not above a week aster they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesbme as besore; however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which endan-
gered the sasety os them all; they were obliged to lay
by all private resentments, and look to the preservation
os their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as
I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whole lise I had
saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or governor
os the rest, sound himsels very uneasy in the night, and
could by no means get any sleep i he was persectly well
in body, as he told me the story, only sound his thoughts
tumultuous; his mind ran upon men sighting, and
killing one another, but was broad awake, and could not
by any means get any steep; in short, he lay a great
while; but, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved
to rise. As they slept, being so many os them, upon
goat-sleins, laid thick upon such couches and pads as
they made sor themselves, and not in hammocks and
(hip-beds, as I did, who was but one; so they had lit-
P 1 tie
tie to do when they were willing to rise, but to get upo*
their seet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was,
and their pumps, and they were ready sor going any way
that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
lie could see little or nothing; and besides, the trees
which I had planted, as described in my sormer ac-
count, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his
sight, so that lie could only look up, and see that it was
a clear star-light night; and hearing no noise, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one,
lie could not sleep, nor could he compose himsels to rest,
but his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and
yet he knew not sor what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another os them waked
and asked who it was that was up. The governor told
him how it had been with him. 'Say you so ?' lays the
other Spaniard; ' such things are not to be slighted, I
'assure you; there is certainty some mischies working,*
says he, ' near us.' And presently he asked him—
* Where are the Englishmen ?'—' They are all in their
'huts,' says he, ' safe enough.' It seems, the Spa-
niards had possession os the main apartment, and had
made a place where the three Englishmen, since their
last mutiny, always quartered by themselves, and could
not come at the rest. 'Well,' says the Spaniard,
* there is something in it, I am persuaded srom my own
'experience; I am satissied our spirits embodied have
'converse with, and receive intelligence srom, the spirits-
* unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and
* this sriendly notice is given sor our advantage, is we
'know how to make use os it. Come,' says he, * let
'us go out and look abroad; and is we sind nothing at
* all m it to justisy our trouble, I'll tell you a story to
'the purpose, that shall convince you os the justice os
* my proposing it.'
In a word, they went out to go to the top os the hill,
where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in:
good
good company, not alone, as I was, used none os my
precautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling it
up aster them, to go up to a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove unconcerned, and
unwary, when they were surprized at seeing a light, as
os sire, a very little way oss srom them, and hearing the
voices os men, not os one or two, but os a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to pre-
vent them making the least discovery os their being any
inhabitant upon the place; and when by any necessity,
they came to know it, they selt it so essectually, that
thole who got away were scarce able to give any
account os it, sor we disappeared as soon as possible;
nor did ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one
else, except it were the three savages in our last encoun-
ter, who jumped into the boat, os whom I mentioned,
that I was asraid they ssiould go home and bring more
help.
Whether it was the consequence os the escape os these
men, that so great a number came now together; or
whether they can;e ignorantly and by accident, on their
usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
understand i but whatever it was, it had been their busi-
ness either to have concealed themselves, and not have
seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place;
but to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not
a man os them should have escaped, which could only
have been by getting in between them and their boats;
but this presence os mind was wanting to them, which
was the ruin os their tranquillity sor a great while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor and the
man with him, surprized at this sight, ran b;ick unme-
diately and raised their sellows, giving them an account
os the imminent danger they were in; and they again
as readily took the alirm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay dole within where they were, but
they must all run out to see how things stood.
P 3 While
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough, sor some hours, t
view them by the light ot three sires they had made at
some distance srom one another. What they were do-
ing they knew not, and what to do sor themselves they
knew not; sor, sirst, the enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several
places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight, and as tliey sound that the sellows ran straggling
all over the more, they made no doubt but sirst or lasti
some os them would sind their habitation, ordiscover some
other place, where they would see the tokens os inhabi-
tants ; and they were in great perplexity also sor sear os
their slock os goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, is thev should have been destroyed; so
the sirst thing they resolved upon was, to dispatch three
men away, besore it was light, viz. two Spaniards and
one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great
valley where the cave was, and, is need were, to drive
them into the very cave itsels.
Could they have seen the savages all together in one
body, and at a distance srom their canoes, they resolved
is there had been a hundred os them, to have attacked
them i but that could not be obtained, sor they were
some os them two miles oss srom the other, and, as it
appeared asterwards, were os two different nations.
Aster having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and racking their brains in considering their
present circumstances, they resolved at last, while it was
dark, to send the old savage, (Friday's sather)
out as a spy, to learn, is potsible, something con-
cerning them, as what they came sor, and what
they intended to do, and the like. The old man
readily undertook it, and stripping himsels quite
raked, as" most os the savages were, away he wenti
aster he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word,
that he had been among them undiscovered; that he
sound
found they were two parties, and os two several nations,
who had war with one another, and had had a great
battle in their own country, and that both sides having
had several prisoners taken in the sight, they were, by
mere chance landed in the same island, sor the devour-
ing their prisoners, and making merry; but their com-
ing so by chance to the same place, had spoiled all their,
mirth; that they were in a great rage at one another,
and were so near, that he believed they would sight again
as soon as day-li^ht began to appear; but he did not
perceive that they had any notion os any body's being on
the island but themselves. He had hardly made an end
os telling the story, when they could perceive, by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies
were engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather uied all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he
told them, t'reir sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pre-
vail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so unportunate sor the event, that they must run
out and see the battle. However, they used some cau-
tion, viz. they did not go openly, just by their own
dwelling, but went sarther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see
them manage the sight, and, as they thought, not to be
seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did see them,
as we shall sind hereaster.
The battle was very sierce; and is I might believe the
Englishmen, one os them said, he could perceive that
some os them were men os great bravery, os invincible
spirits, and os great policy in managing the sight. The
battle, they said, held two hours, besore they could
guess which party would be beaten i but that party
which was nearest our people's habitation, began to ap-
pear weakest, and aster some time more, some os them
fcegan to sly; and this put our men again into a great
consternation,
consternation, lest any os thole that sled should run int«
the grove besore their dwelling sor shelter, and thereby
involuntarily discover the place; and that by conse-
quence the pursuers should do the like in search os them.
Upon this they resolved, that they would stand armed
within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they
should sally out over the wall and kill them; so that, is
possible, not one should return to give an account os
it. They ordered also, that it should be done with
their swords, or by knocking them down with the stock
os I he musket, not by shooting them, sor sear os raising
an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three os the routed
army sled sor life and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, hut running as into a thick wood sor shelteri the
scout;they kept to look abroad gave notice os this within,
with this addition, to our men's great satissaction, viz.
that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen
which wav they were gone. Upon this the Spanish go-
vernor, a man os humanity, would not suffer them to
kill the three sugitives; but, sending three men out by
the top os the hill, ordered them to go round, and com-
ing in behind them, surprize and take them prisoners,
which was done; the residue os the conquered people
fled to their canoes, and got off to lea; the victors re-
tired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great scream-
ing shouts, which they supposed were by way os tri-
umph, and so the sight ended i and the same day, about
three o'clock in the asternoon, they also marched to
their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again sree to themlclves, their sright was over, and they
saw no savages sor several years aster.
Aster they were all gone, the Spaniards came out os
their den; and viewing the sield os battle, they sound
about two and thirty dead men upon the spot; some
were killed with great long arrows, several os which
were seund sticking in their bodies; but most os them
were
were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen os which they sound in the sield os battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These
swords were great unwieldy weapons, and they must be
very strong men that used them. Most os those men
that were killed, had their heads mashed to pieces, as
we may say, or as we may call it in English, their
brains knocked out and several os their arms and segs
broken; so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible
rage and sury. They sound not one wounded man
that was not stone dead; sor either they stay by their ,
enemy till they have quite killed him, or they carry all
the wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with
them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen sor a great
whilei the sight hid silled them with Ioitow, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, espe-
cially upon supposing that some time or other they should
sall into the hands os thoie creatures; who would not
only kill them as enemies, J«it kill them sor sood, as
we kill our cattle. And they prosesied to me, that the
thoughts os being eaten up like bees or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they w^re dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought os it, and
silled their minds with unusual terror, that they were
not themselves sor some weeks aster.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes
I have been speaking os; and sor a great while after
they were very tractable, and went abuut the common
business os the whole society well enough; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country; but some time aster this, they tell all into
such sunple measures again as brought them into a great
deal os trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I have observed;
and these three being lusty stout young sellows, they
made them servants, and taught them to work ter them,
and as slaves, they did well enough; but they did not
take
take measures with them as I did by my man Friday 5
viz. to begin with tjpem upon the principle os having
saved their lives, and then instructed them in the rati-
onal principles os lise, much less os religion, civilizing
and reducing them by kind usage, and assectionate ar-
guments; but, as they gave them their sood every day,
so they gave them their work too, and kept them sully
employed in drudgery; but they sailed in this by it,
that they never had them to assist them and sight sor
them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me
as the very slesh upon my bones.
But to come to the samily part. Being all now good
sriends, (sor common danger, as I said above, had es-
scctually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came un-
der their consideration was, whether, seeing the savages
particularly haunted that side os the island, and that
there were more remote and retired parts os it equally
adapted to their way os living, and manisestly to their
advantage, they should not rather remove their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place sor their
sasety, and especially sor the security os their cattle
and corn.
Upon this, aster long debate, it was conceived, that
they mould not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear srom
their governor again, meaning me; and is I mould send
any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them
on that side, where, is they mould sind the place demo-
lhhed, they would conclude the savages had killed us
all, and we were gone, and so o<ir supply would go
away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to re-
move them into the valley where my cave was, where
the land was as proper to both, and where indeed thera
was .land enough. However, upon second thoughts,
they altered one part os that resolution too, and resolved
only to remove part os their cattle thither, and plant
part os their corn there, and so, is one part was de-
stroyed,
ftroyed, she other might be saved. One piece os pru-
dence they used, which it was very well they did, viz.
that they had never trusted these three savages, which
they had taken prisoners, with knowing any thing os
the plantation they had made in that valley, or os any
cattle they had there; much less os the cave, which
they kept in case os necessity, as a sase retreati and
thither they carried also the two barrels os powder,
which I had sent them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had caresully co-
vered it sirst with a wall os sortisication, and then with
a grove os trees; so, seeing their iasety consisted entirely
in their being concealed, os which they were now sully
convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the
place yet more esscctually than besore. To this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) sor some good dis-
tance besore the entrance into my apartment, they went
on in the same manner, and .silled up the rest os that
whole space os ground, srom the trees I had set, quite
down to the side os the creek, where, as I sakl, I
landed my sloats, and even into the very oiue where
the tide slowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landingthere-
about. These stakes also, being os a wood vtry tor-
ward to grow, they took care to have generally much
larger and taller than thote which I had planted, and
placed them so very thick and close, that when they
had been three or sour years grown, there was no pierc-
ing with the eye any considerable way into the planta-
tion. As sor that part which I had planted, the trees
were grown as thick as a man's thigh; and among them
they placed so many other short ones, and so thick, that
it stood like a palliiado a quarter os a mile thick, and it
was next to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little
army, to cut it all down; sor a little dog could hardly
get between the trees, they stood so dose.
But this was not all; sor they did the same by all
i the
the ground to the right-hand, and to the lest, and round
even to the top os the hill; leaving no way, not so
much as sor themselves to come out, but by the ladder
placed up to the side os the hill, and then listed up,
and placed again srom the sirst stage up to the top;
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcrast to assist it, could come
at them.
This was excellently well contrivedi nor was it less
than what they asterwards sound occasion sor; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has au-
thority os Providence to justisy it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction os Providence to set it to work; and,
would we listen caresully to the voice os it, I am sully
persuaded we might prevent many os the disasters
which our lives are now by our own negligence sub-
jected to.
To return to the story. They lived two years aster
this in persect retirement, and had no more visits srom
the savages; they had, indeed, an alarm given them
one morning, which put them in a great consternation;
sor, some os the Spaniards being out early one morning
on the west side, or rather end os the island, which was
that end where I never went, sor sear os being disco-
vered, they were surprised with seeing about twenty ca-
noes os Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best os their way home, and giving
the alarm to their comrades, kept close all that day and
the next, going out only at night, to make observation.
But they had the good luck to be mistaken; sor where-
ever the savages went, they did not land at that time on
the istand, but pursued some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen; one os which, a most turbulent scllow, being
in a rage at one os the three slaves, which they had ta-
ken, because the scllow had not done something right
which he bid him do, and seemed a little untractable
in his mewing him, drew a hatchet out os a srog belt,
ia which he wore it by his side, and sell upon the poor
savage
ferage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One os
the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the scllow
a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his
head, but struck it into his shoulder, so that he thought he
had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and in-
treating him not to murder the poor man, stcpt in be-
tween him and the savage, to prevent the mischies.
The fellow being enraged the more at this, struck at
the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a sho-
vel, which he had in his hand, (sor they were working
in the sield about their corn-land) knocked the brute
ctown; another os the Englishmen, running at the iame
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down;
and then two Spaniards more came to help their man,
and a third Englishman sell upon them. They had
none os them any sire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one os my old rusty cutlasses, with which he
made at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both.
This sray set the whole samily in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen pri-
soners. The next question was, What should be done
with them? They had been so osten mutinous, and
were so surious, so desperate and so idle withal, that
that they knew not what course to take with them, sor
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and va-
lued net what hurt they did any man; so that in short, it
was not sase to live with them.
The Spaniard who was gqvernor, told them, that is
they had been his own countrymen, he would have
hanged them all; sor all laws, and all governors, were
to preserve society; and these who were dangerous to
the society, ought;)to be expelled out os iti but, as
they were Englishmen, and it was to the generous kind-
ness os an Englishman that they ail owed their preser-
vation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and leave them to the judgment ot
V01-. II. '30 Q_ the
tlit other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One os the two honest Englishmen stood up, and laid,
they desired it might not be left to themi 'For (says
he) lam sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows.'
And with that gave an aecount, how Will Atkins, one
os the three, had proposed to have all the sive English-
men join together, and murder all the Spaniards when
they were asteep.
When the Spanish governor heard this he calls to
Will Atkins. 'How, Seignior Atkins, (says he)
• will you murder us all! What have you to say to
'that ?* That hardened villain was so sar srom deny-
ing it, that he said it was true; and G—d damn him,
they would do it still before they had done with them.
• Well, but Seignior Atkins, (said the Spaniard) what
'have we done to you, that you will kill us? And what
• would you get by killing us ? And what must we do to
'prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you
'kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity os this,
'Seignior Atkins ?' says the Spaniard calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest os it, that, had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle os all the company.
This hair-brained conduct obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen,
and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were os
the opinion, that they mould hang one os the three sor
an example to the it ft; and that particularly it should
be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with
his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe
he had done it, sor the poor savage was in such a mise-
rable condition with the wound he had received, that it
was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still raid, no, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered hals os them; nay, he said, is he had
been
been killed himsels by an Englishman, and had time
lest to speak, it should be, that they should pardon
him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor
Spaniard, that there was no resisting it; and, as merci-
sul counsels are most apt to prevail, where they are so
earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it
was to be considered, what mould be done to keep them
from the mischies they designed; sor all agreed, gover-
nor and all, that means were to be used sor preserving
the society srom danger. Aster a long debate it was
agreed, First, That they should be disarmed, and not
permitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or
sword, cr any weapon, and should be turned out os the
society, and lest to live where they would, and howthey
could, by themselves; but that none os the rest, either
Spaniards or Englisii, should converse, or have any
thing to do with them; that they should be sorbid to
come within a certain distance os the place where th«
rest dwelt; and that is they offered to commit any dis-
order, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any os the
corn, plantings, buildings, sences, or cattle belonging
to the societv, that they should die without mercy, and
they should il.oot them wherever they could sind them.
The governor, a man os great humanity, musing upon
the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turning
to the two honest Englishmen, said,—' Hold! you must
'reslect, that it will be long ere thev can raise corn
'and cattle os their own, and they must not starve; we
'must theresore allow them provisions." So he caused
to be added, That they should have a proportion ot coin
given to them to last them eight months, and for seed to
sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some
os their own; that they should have six milch-goats,
sour he-goats, and six kids given them, as well sor pre-
sent subsidence, as sor a store; and that they should have
took given them sor their work in the sield ; such as, six
hatchets, an a.\, a saw, and the like i but they should have
none os these tools or provisions, unless they would swear
Q^2 solemnly,
solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any of
the Spaniards with them, or os their sellow English-
men.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shist sor themselves. They went away sul-
len and resractory, as neither contented to go away, or.
to stay; but as there was no remedy, they went, pre-
tending to go and chuse a place where they should ict-
tle themselves, to phnt, and live by themselves; and
some provisions were stiven them, but no weapons.
. About sour or sive days aster, they came again sor
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked themielves out
a habitation or plantation. It was a very convenient
place, indeed, on the remotest part os the ..land, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in
my sirst voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my soolisli attempt tosorrjuud
the island.
Here thev built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my sirst habitation,
being close under the side os a hill, having some tree*
growing already to the three sides os it; so that by plant-
ing others, it would be very easily covered srom the
sight, unleis narrowly searched sor. They desired some
dry goat-skins sor beds and covering, which were given
them; and, upon their giving their words that they
would not disturb the rest, or injure zny os their planta-
tions, they gave them hatchets, and what other tools
they could sparei some peas, barley, and rice, sor sow-
ing; and, in a word, any thing they wanted, but arms
and ammunition!
Thev lived in this separate condition abciit six months,
and had got in their sirst harvest, though the quantity
•was but .mall, the parcel os land they planted bemg but
little; sor, indeed, having all their plan'.at.on to sorm,
they had a great deal os work upon their hands; and
when they came to make boards, and pots, and suth
tiungs, they were quite cut os their element, and could
make
make nothing ot' it; and when the rainy season came on,
sor want os a cave in the earth, they could not keep
their grain dry, and it was in great danger os spoiling i
and this htunbled them much; so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did; and in lour days worked a great hole in the side
os the hill sor them, large enough to secure their corn and
other things srom the rain; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; sor the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments in it.
About three quarters ot a year aster this separation,
anew srolic seized these rogues, which, together wit/j
the sormer viliainy they had committed, brought mischief
enough upon them, and had very ne?rbeen the ruin os
the whole colony. The three new associates began, it
ieems, to be weary os the laborious lise they led, and
that without hope os bettering their circumstances, and
a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to
the continent srom whence the savages came, and would
try is they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make
them do the laborious part os the work sor them.
The project was not so preposterous had they gone
110 sarther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing,
but what had either mischies in the design, or mischies
in the eventi and, is I may give my opinion, they seem-
ed to be under a judgment srom Heaven; sor is we will
^v2t allow a visible curie to pursue visible crimes, how
gitfU we reconcile the events os things with Divine Jus-
'tjr.e? It was, certainly an apparent vengeance on their
-rime os mutiny and piracy, that brought them to the
state they were in; and as they shewed not the least re-
morse sor the crime, but added new villainies to it, such
as, particularly, that piece os monstrous cruelty os
wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he was directed; and
to wound him in such a manner, as made him a
cripple all his lise; and in a place where no surgeon
Qj' or
or medicine could be had for his cure; and what was
still worfe, the murderous intent; or, to do julHce to
the crime, the intentional murder; for fuch to be fure
it was, as was afterwards the formed design they all
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
steep.
But to return to the story. The three fellows came
down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very hum-
ble terms desired to be admitted to fpeak with them.
The Spaniards very readily heard what they had to fay,
which was this i that they were tired of living in the
manner they did; that they were not handy enough to
make the necessaries they wanted; and that, having no
help they found they should be starved; but if the
Spaniards would give them leave to take cne of the ca-
noes that they came over in, and give them aims and
ammunition proportioned for their defence, they would
go over to the main and feek their fortune, and sb free
them from the trouble of fupplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,
but yet very honestly reprefented to them the certain de-
struction they were running into; told them, they had
disfered fuch hardships upon that very fpot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that
they would be starved or murdered; aud bade them
consider os it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved
if they staid here, for they could not work, and woul£_
not work; and they could but be starved abroad; ais'iCj
if they were murdered, there was an end of them, tluy
had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in
short, insisted importunately upon their demand, declar-
ing that they would go, whether they would give them
any arms or not.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindnefs, that
if they were resolved to go, they mould not go like
naked men, and be in no condition to defend them-
fesves; and that fheugh they could ill ipare their sire-
arms.
.arms, having not enough sor themselves, yet they cousd
let them have two musquets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and
each mm a hatchet, witich they thought was sussicient
ibr them.
In a word, they accepted the osser; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, and given
them as much goats-sleih as they couid eat while it was
sweet, and a great basket sull os dried grapes, a pot sull
os sreffi water, and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly
set cut in a canoe sor a voyage over the sea, where it was
at hast forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried sisteen or twenty men; and theresore
was rather too big sor them to managei but as
they had a sair breeze, and the slood-tide with them,
thev did well enough. They had made a mast os a long
pole, and a sail os sour large goat-skins dried, which they
had sewed or laced together; and away they went mer-
rily enough. The Spaniards cailed arter them, ' Bon
* 'vcajo s and no man ever thought os seeing them more.
The Spaniards would osten say to one another, and
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how
quiet and comsortably they lived now those three tur-
bulent sellows were gone. As sor their ever coming
ago in, that was the remotest thing srom their thoughts
that couUi.be imagined i when behold! aster twenty-
two days absence, or.e os the Englishmen being abroad
upon his planting work, saw three strange men coming
towards him at a distance, two os them with guns upon
their shoulders.
Away ran the Englishmanas is he was bewitched, and
came srighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard,
telling them they were all undone, forthere were strangers
landed upon the island, he could not tell who. The
Spaniard pausing a-while, said to him,—c Hew do yon
'mean you cannot tell who? They are savages, to be
'sure.'—' No, no,' says the Englishman, ' they are
'men in cloaths with aims.'—Nay, then,' says the
Spaniard, ' why are you concerned; Is they are not
'savages
* savages they must be sriends ; for there is no Chris-
'tian nation upon earth but will do us good rather
'than harm.'
While they were debating thus, came tiie three En-
glishmen, and standing without she wood, which was
new planted, hallooed to them. They presently knew
their voices; and so all wonder os that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another ques-
tion; viz. What could be the matter, and what made
them come back again.
It was not long besore they brought the men in; and
enquiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing; they gave them a sull account os their vovage,
in a sew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, sinding the people alarm-
ed at their coming, and preparing with bows and ar-
rows to sight them, they durst not go on more, but
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they
came to a great opening, by which they perceived that
the land they saw srom our island was not the main, but
an island; that entering that opening os the sea, they
few another island on the right hand, north, and several
more west; and, being resolved to land somewhere,
they put over to one os the islands which lay west, and
went boldly on more; that they sound the people were
courteous and sriendly to them, and they gave them
several roots and some dried sish, and appeared very so-
ciable; and the women as well as the men, were very
forward to supply them with any thing they could get
sor them to eat, and brought it to them a great way
upon their heads.
They continved here sour days, and enquired, as well
as they could os them by signs, what nations were this
way, and that way; and were told os several sierce and
terrible people, that lived almost every way; who, as
they made known by signs to them, used to eat men's
but as sor themselves, they said that they never eat men
or women, except only such as tliey took in the wars;
and then they owned, that they made a great scast, aird
eat their prisoners. 'Then
Robinson crusoe. .si
Tlve Englishmen enquired, when they had a scast os
that kind. They told them, two moons ago, pointing
to the moon and then to two singers; and that their
great king had two hundred prisoners now, which he had
siken iii his war, and that they were seeding them to
mi-kc them sat sor the next seast. The Englishmen
jeemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners; but the
others, mistaking them, thought they were desirous to
have some os them, to carry away sor their own eating.
So they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting os
the sun, and then to the rismg, which was tc signisy, that
the next morning, at su-i-rising, they would bring some
sor them i and, accordingly, the next morning, they
brought down sive women and eleven men, and gave
them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring Ib many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town to victual a slap.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did
rot know what to do i to resuse the prisoners would
h?ve been the highest assront to the savage gentry that
ossered thsm; and what to do with them they knew
-not; however, upon some debate, they resolved to ac-
cept os them; and, in return, they gave the savages
that brought them one os their hatchets, an old key, a
Jinise, and six or seven os their bullets; which, though
they did not understand, they seemed extremely pleased
with i and then, tying the poor creatures hands behind
them, thev (the people) dragged the prisoners into the
boat tor our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon
as they had them, or else thev that gave them this no-
ble present would certainly have ex ected that they
should have gone to work with them, have killed two
or three ut" them the next morning, and perhaps have
invited the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave, with all the respect
and thanks that could well pass between people, where,
©neither iiie, they under,tood not one word they could
say,
say, they put oss with their boat, ami came back to-
wards the sirst island; where, when they arrived, they
set eight os their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many os them sor their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prhbners; but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they
could say to them, or give them, or do sor them, but was
looked upon as going about to murder them. They
sirst os ail unbound them; but the poor creatures
screamed at that, especially the women, as is they had
just sclt the knise at their throats; sor they immediately
concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
Is they gave them any thing to eat, it was the same
thingi tntn they concluded it was sor sear they mould
sink ia stem, and so not be sat enough to kill; is they
looked at one os them more particularly, the party
presentlv concluded, it was to see whether he or me was
fattest and sittest to kill sirst; nay, aster they had
brought them quite over, and began to use them kmd-
ly, and treat them well, slill they expected everyday to
make a dinner or supper sor their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal ot their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them where their new samily was; and being told
that they had brought them on more, and put them into
one os their huts, and were come to bog some victuals sor
them; they (the Spaniards) and the other two English-
men, that is to say the whole colony, resolved to go
down to the place, and see them; they accordingly did
so, and toolt Friday's sather with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
bound; sor when they had brought them on shore, they
bound their hands, that they might not take the boat
and make their escape; there, I iay they sat, all ot them
stark-naked. First, there were three men, lusty, come-
ly sellows, well-shaped, straight, anil sair limbs, about
thirty to thirty sive years os age; and sive women,
whereos two might be srom thirty to sorty; two more
not
not above twenty-sour or twenty-sive; and the sisth a
tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The
women were well-savoured, agreeable persons, both in
shape and seatures, only tawny; and two os them, had
they been penectly white, would have passed sor hand-
some women, even in London itsels, having very plea-
sant agreeable countenances, and os a very modest be-
haviour, especially when they came asterwards to be
cloathed, and dressed, as they call it, though that dress
was very indifferent it must be consessed; os which
hereafter.
The siebt, you may be sure was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men os the best behaviour, os the mest calm, se-
date tempers, and persect good-humour, that ever I
met with; and, in pnrticuiar, were posiesstd os a great
share os modesty i I say, the sight was very uncouth,
to see two naked men, and sive naked women, all to-
gether bound, and in the most miserable cicumstances
that human nature could be supposed to be; expecting
every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains
knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a cals that is
killed sor a dainty.
The sirst thing they did, was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's sather, to go in and lee sirst is he knew any of
them, and then is he understood any os their speech.
As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none os them; neither could any os
them understand a word he said, ora sign he could make,
except one os the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satissy them, that the men into whose bauds they
were sallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed. As soon as they were assured os this,
they discovered such a joy, and by such aukward and
various ways, as is hard to describe; sor it seems they
were os several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in
the
ti.c next place, to risk them it they were willing to he
servants, and to work sor the men who had brought
them away to save their lives? At which they all fell a
dancing'; and presently one tell to taking u;> this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to cany on
their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to
work.
The governor, who sound that the having women
among them, would presently be attended with some
inconvenience, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, asked the three men what they intended to
do with these women, and how they proposed to use them,
whether as servants, or as women. One os the En-
glishmen answered very boldlv and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said,
—' I am not going to restrain you srom it; you are
'vour own masters as to thati but this I think is but
'just, sor avoiding disorders and quarrels amoEg you,
'and I desire it os you sor that reason only; vi7. that
* you will all engage, that is any os you tske any os
'these women, as a weman or wise, he shall take but
'one; and that, having taken one, none else shall touch
'her; sor though we cannot marry any os you, yet it
'is but reasonable, that while you stay here, the woman
'any os you takes, should be maintained by the man
'who takes her, and should be his wise; I mean,' says
he, ' while he continues here; and that none else sh.or.JJ
'have any thing to do with her.' All this appeared so
just, that every one agreed to it without any disssiculty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, is thev
designed to take any os them. But every one answered,
'No.' Some os them said they had wives in Spain,
and others did not like women that were not Christians;
and altogether declared that they would not touch one
os them; which was an instance os such virtue,
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the
other hand, to be short, the sive Englishmen took
them every one a wise; that is to say a temporary wisc;
and so they let up a new sorm os living; sor the
Spaniards
Spaniards and Friday's sather lived in my old habita-
tion, which they had enlarged exceedingly within; the
three servants, which they had taken in the late battle os
the savages, "lived with them; and these carried on the
main part os the colony, supplying all the rest with sood,
and assisting them with any thing as they could, or as
they sound necessity required.
But the wonder os this story was, how sive such re-
sractory ill matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two os them ssiould not pitch upon the
same woman, especially seeing two or three os them were
without comparison, more agreeable than the othersi
but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; sor they set the sive women by them-
selves in one os their huts, and they went all into the
other hut, and drew lots among them who should chuse
sirst.
He that drew to chuse sirst, went away by himsels to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that
he that chose sirst, took her that was reckoned the home-
liest and ugliest os the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at iti
but the sellow considered better than any os them, that
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and me proved
the best wise among them.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row
thus, and setched out one by one, the terrors os their
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed that they werenow going to be devoured. Ac-
cordingly, when the English sailor came in and setched
cut one os them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
and hung about her, and took their leave os her with
such agonies, and such assection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible sor
the Englishmen to satissy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they setched the old man,
Fridav's sather, who instantly let them know, that the
Vol. II. 30. R sive
sive men, who had fetched them out one by one, had
chosen them sor their wives.
tVhen they had done this, and the sright the women
were in, was a little over, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a scw
hours, they had built them every one a new hut or tent sor
their lodging apart; sor those they had already werecroud-
ed with their tools, houmold-stuffand provisionsi the three
wicked ones had pitched sarthest off, and the two ho-
nest ones nearer, but both on the north-shore os the
island, so that they continued separate as besorei and
thus my island was peopled in three places; and, as I
might say, three towns were begun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it
osten happens in the world, (what the wise ends os God's
Providence are in such a deposition os things, I cannot
say) the two honest sellows had the two worst wives;
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit sor nothing, and neither seemed born
to do themselves good, or any one else, had three de-
cent, diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that
the two sirst were ill wives as to their temper or humour,
sor all the sive were most willing, quiet, passive, and
subjected creatures, rather l.ke slaves than wives; but
my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour os
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace os a slothsul, negligent, iiile temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management os the seve-
ral little colonies, the two men had so sar outgone the
three, that there was no companion. They had, in-
deed, both os them as much ground laid out for corn as
they wanted; and the realbn was, because, according
to my rule, nature dictated, that it was to no purpoie
to sow more corn than they wanted; but the disserence
os the cultivation, os the planting, os the sences, aud
• indeed os every thing else, was easy to be seen at sirst
view, - The
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
•bout their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation twice demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as will be shewn
in its proper place, yet they had restored all again, and
every thing was slourishing and thriving about them;
they had grapes planted in order, and managed like a
vineyard, though they had themselves never seen any
thing os that kind; and by their good ordering their
Tines, their grapes were as good again as any os the
others. Thay had also sound themselves a retreat in the
thickest part os the woods, where, though there was
not a natural cave, as I had sound; yet they made one
with inceslant labour os their hands, and where, when
the mischies which sollowed happened, they secured
their wives and children, so as they could never be
sound; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and
poles os the wood, which as I laid, grew so easily,
made a grove impassable, except in one place, where
they climbed up to get over the outside part, and their
went in by ways os their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them,
though they were much civilized by their new settle-
ment, compared to what they were besore, aud were
not so quarrelsbme, having not the same opportunity;
yet one os the certain companions os a prosligate mind
never lest them, and that was their idleness. It is true
they planted corn, and made sences; but Solomon's
words were never better verisied than in them i 'I went
'by the vineyard os the ssothsul, and it was all over-
'grown with thorns.' For when the Spaniards came
to view their crop, they could not see it in some places
sor weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the
wild goats had gotten in and eaten up the corn; per-
haps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out sor the present; but it was only shutting
the stable-door aster the steed was stoleni whereas, when
they looked on the colony os the other two, there was
R i the
the very sace os industry and success upon all they did,
there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a
pap in any os their hedges; and, they, on the other
hand, verisied Solomon's words in another placei
* That the diligent hand malceth rich.' For every thing
grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and with-
out; they had more tame cattle than the others, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more plea-
sure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives os the three were veiy handy
and cleanly within doors; and, having learned the Eng-
lish ways os dressing and cooking srom one ot the other
Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cooke's mate on
board the ship, they dressed their husband's victuals
ver)- nicely and well; whereas the other could not be
brought to understand it; but then the huiband,who, as
I said, had been cook's mate, did it himsels. But as
sor the husbands os the three wives, they loitered about,
setched turtle eggs, and caught sish and birdsi in a
word, any thing but labour; and they sared accord-
ingly. The diligent lived well and comsortably, and
the slothsul lived hard and beggarly; and so I believe,
generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene different srom all that had
happened besore, either to them or to me; the original
os the story was this—
Early one morning there/Came on shore sive or six ca-
noes os Indians, or savages, call them what you please;
ar.d there is no room to doubt, that they came upon the
old errand os seeding upon their slavesi but that part
was now so samiliar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it as I
did; but, having been made sensible by their experi-
ence, that their only business was to lie concealed, and
that, is they were not seen by any os the savages, they
would go off again quietly when their business was done,
having as yet not the least notion os there being inha-
bits u in the island; I say, having been made lensible
«s thisj they had nothing to do but to give notice to
all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not
to shew themselves; only placing a scout in a secure
place, to give notice when the boats went off to sea
again.
This was without doubt very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation os almost the whole co-
lony. Aster the canoes with the iav^ges were gone
off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some os
them had the curiosity to go to the piace where they had
been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprize, they sound three savages lest behind, and lying
sasti asleep upon the ground ; it was supposed they had ei-
ther been Ib gorged with their inhuman seast, that, like
beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when the
others went, or they were wandered into the woods,
and did not coine back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight,
and persectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish go-
vernor, as it happened, was with them, and his advice
was asked; but he prosessed he knew not what to do.
As sor staves, they had enough already; and as to
killing them, they were none os them inclined to that.
The Spaniard governor told me they could not think os
stiedding innocent blood; tor as to them, the poor crea-
tures had done no wrong, invaded none os their pro-
perty, and they thought they had no just quarrel against
them to take away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, ob-
serve, that let all the accounts os Spanish cruelty in
Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with
ieventeen men, os any nation whatsoever, in any so-
reign countrv, who were so universally modest, tempe-
rate, virtuous, so very good humoured, and so courte-
ous, as these Spaniards; and as to cruelty, they had
nothing os it in their very nature; no inhumanity, no
barbarity, no outrageous passions, and yet all c.f them
men os great courage and ipirit.
K 3" Their
Their temper and calmness had appeared, in their
.bearing the unfufferable usage os the three Englishmen;
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the case
os the savages, as above. Atter some consultation,
they resolved upon this, that they would* lie still awhile
longer, till, is possible, these three men might be gone;
but then the governor Spaniard recollected that the three
savages had no boat, and that, is they were lest to
rove about the istand, they would certainly discover that
there were inhabitants in it; and so they should be un-
done that way.
Upon this they went back again, and there lay the
scllows sait aileep stilli so they resolved to awaken them
and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor
scllows were strangely srighted when they were seized
upon and bound, and asraid, like the women, that they
should be murdured and eaten; sor it seems, those peo-
ple think all the world do as they do, eating men's slesh,
•but they were loon made easy as to that, and away they
carried them.
It was very happy sor them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean, to my palace under
the hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where
was the chies os their country-work; such as keep-
ing the goats, planting the corn, &c. and asterwards
they carried them to the habitation os the two Eng-
lishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much
thev had sor them to do. And, whether it was by
negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the
scllows could not mend themselves, I know not, but
one os them ran away; and, taking into the woods,
they couid never hear os him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon aster, in some other boats or canoes os savages,
who came on shore three or sour weeks asterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went oss again
in two diys time. This thought terrisied them ex-
ceedingly; sor they concluded, and that not without
good
good cause indeed, that is this sellow got sase home
among his comrades, he would certainly give them i*
account that there were people in the island, as also
how weak and sew they were; sor this savage, as I ob-
served besore, had never been told, as it was very
happy he had not, how many there were, or where they
lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the sire os any os
their guns, much less had they shewn him any other os
their retired places, such as the cave in the valley, or
the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made,
and the like.
The sirst testimony they had, that this scllow had
given intelligence os them was, that about two months
aster this, six canoes os savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side os the island, where they never used to come
besore, and landed about an hour aster sun-rise, at a
convenient place, about a mile srom the habitation os
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been all
there, the damage would not have been so much, sor not a
man os them would have escaped; the case dissered now
very much; sor two men to siisty were too much odds.
The two men had the happiness to discover them about
a league oss, so that it was above an hour besore they
landed; and, as they landed about a mile srom their
huts, it was some time besore they could come at them.
Now having great reason to believe that they were be-
trayed, the sirst thing they did was to bind the slaves
which were lest, and cause two os the three men, whom
they brought with the women, who, it seems, proved
very saithsul to them, to lead them with their two
wives,, and whatever they could carry away with them
to their retired place in the woods, which I have spoken
os above, and there to bind the two sellows hand and
Foot till they heard sarther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were nil come
•n share, and that they bent their course directly that
way
2
way, they opened the fences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleafed, that
she favages might think they were all bred wild i but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and rave them an account of it all; for they went
directly to the place.
When the two poor frighted men had fecured their
wives and goods, they fent the other slave they had of
the three who came with the women, and who was at
their place, bv accident, away tb the Spaniards, with
all fpeed, to give them the alarm, and desire fpeedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms, and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the
place in the wood where their wives were lent, keeping
at a distance; yet so that they might fee, if possible,
which way the favages took.
They had not gone far, when, from a rising ground,
they could fee the little army of their enemies come on
directly to their habitation, and in a moment more,
could see all their huts and houshold-stuff slaming up to-
gether, to their great grief and mortisication; tor they
had a very great lofs, and to them irretrieveable, at least
for some time. They kept their station for awhile, till
they found the favages, like wild beasts, fpread them-
felves sll over the place, rummaging every way, and every
place they could think of, in fearch for prey; and in
particular, for the people, of whom it pla.nly appeared
thev had intelligence.
The two Englithmen feeing this, thinking themselves
not fecure where they stood, becaule, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, ib they
might come tco many together; thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile farther, believ-
ing; as it afterwards happened, that the larther they
strolled, the ferer would be together.
The eeNt halt was at the entrance into a very thick-
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a
tree
tree stood, which was hollow, and very large; and in
this tree they both took their standing, resolving to sec
what might osscr.
They had not stood here long, when two os the sava-
ges appeared running directly that way, as is they had
already notice where they stood, and were coming up to
attack them; and a little way sarther, they espied three
more coming aster them, and sive more beyond them,
all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven
or eight more at a distance, running another way; sor,
in a word, they ran every way, like sportsmen beating
sor their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand and keep their posture, or slyi but
aster a very short debate with themselves, they consider-
ed that is the savages ranged the country thus, besore
help came, they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat
in the woods, and then all would be lost; so they re-
solved to stand them there; and it there were too many
to deal with, then they would get to the top os the tree,
srom whence they doubted not to desend themselves,
(sire excepted) as long as their ammunition lasted,
though all the savages that were landed, which were
near sisty, were to attack them.
Hiving resolved upon this, they next considered whe-
ther they should sire at the two sirst, or wait sor the
three, and take the middle party; by which the two
aud the sive that sollowed would be separated. At
length they resolved to let the sirst two pass by, unless
they should espy them in the tree, and come to attack
them. The two sirst savages also consirmed them in
this resolution, by turning a little srom them towards
another part os the wood; but the three, and the sive
aster them, came sorwards directly to the tree, as is they
had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they re -
solved to take them in a line as they came; and as they
resolved to sire but one at a time, perhaps Hie sirst shot
;jiight hit them all three; to which purpose, the mais
who
who was to sire, put three or sour bullets into his piece;
and, having a sair loop-hole, as it were, srom a broken
hole in the iree, he took a line aim, without being seen,
waiting till they were within about thirty yards os the
tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly law that one oi the three was the run-
away that had escaped srom them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, is possible, he
should not escape, though they should both sire; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that it he did not drop
at the sirst shot he should be lure to have a second.
But the sirst was too good a marksman to miss his
aim; sor as the savages kept nenr one another, a little
behind in a lire, he sited, and hit two os them directly.
The soremost was killed outright, being shot in the head;
the second, which was the vun away Indian, was shot
through the body, and scll, but was not quite dead;
.and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, per- •
haps by the same ball that wont through the body ot the
second ; and being dreadsully srighted, though not much
hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
in a hideous manner.
The sive that were behind, more srighted with the
noise than sensible os their danger, stood still at sirst; sor
the woods made the sound a thousand times louder than
it really was; the echoes rattling srom one side to the
other, and the sowls rising srom all parts, screaming
and making several kinds ot noise, according to their
kind, just as it was when I sired the sirst gun that, per-
haps, was ever shot off in that place since it was an
issand.
However all being silent again, and they not knowing
what the matter was, came on unconcerned till they
came to that place where their companions lay, in. a
condition miserable enough i and here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reachos the
same mischies, stood all os a huddle over the wounded
man,, talking, -and as may be supposed, enquiring os
him
him how he came to be hurt; and who, it is very rati-
onal to believe, told them that a slam os sire sirst, and
immediately aster that, thunder srom their gods had
killed those two and wounded him. This, I say, is
rational; sor nothing is more certain than that, as they
saw no man near them, and had never heard a gun in
all their lives, or so much as ever heard os one; neither
knew any thing os killing or wounding at a distance
with sire and bullets; is they had, one might reasona-
bly believe that they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned, in viewing the sate os their sellows, without
some apprehension os their own.
Our two men, though, as they consessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the same time had no notion os their
danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and
the sirst having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
sly both together among them; and singling out by-
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed or very much wounded sour os them; the sisth,
srighted even to death, though not hurt, sell with the
reft; so that our men seeing them all sall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belies that the savages were all killed, made our
two men come bcklly srom the tree besore they had
charged their guns again, which was a wrong step; and
they were under some surprize when they came to the place
and sound no less than sour os the men alive, and os them
two very little hurt, and one not at all. This obliged
them to sall upon I hem with the stocks os their muskets,
and sirst they made sine os the run-away savage that had
been the cause os all the mischies; and os another that
was hurt in his knee, and put them out os their pain;
thin the man that was not hurt at all, came and kneeled
down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moan to them, by gestures ar.d signs, sor his
lise; but could noJ say oiie word to them that they could
understand.
However"
However they made signs to him to sit down at the
soot os a treei and one os the Englishmen, with a piece
os rope-twine, which he had by great chance in his
pocket, tied his seet sast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they lest him; and with what speed they
could, made aster the other two which were gone besore,
scaring they, or any more os them, should sind the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives
and the sew goods they had lest lay. They came once
in sight os the two men, but it was at a great distance;
however, they had the satissaction to lee them cross over
a valley, towards the sea, the quite contrary way srom
that which led to their retreat, which they were asraid
os; and, being satissied with that, they went back to
the tree where they lest their prisoner; who, as they
supposed, was delivered by his comrades, sor he was
gone, and the two pieces os rope-yarn, with which they
had bound him, lay just at the soot os the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as besore, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, cr in what number; so they resolved to go
away to the plate where their wives were, to see is all
was wel! there, and to make them easy, who were in
sright enough to be sure; sor though the savages were
their own country-solk, yet they were most terribly
asraid os them, and perhaps the more srom the know-
ledge they had os them.
When they came thither, they sound the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place, but
had not sound it; sor indeed it was inaccessible, by the
trees standing so thick, as besore, unless the persons
seeking it had been directed by those who knew it,
which these were not; they sound, theresore, every
thing ver)' sasc, only the women in a terrible sright.
Wli.le they were here, they had the comsort os seven of
the Spaniards coming to their assistance; the other ten
with their servants, and old Friday, (I mean, Fr day's
lather) were gone in a body to desend their bower, and
tiw corn and cattle that were kept there, in case the
.' savages
savages should have rowed over to that side os the coun-
try; but they did not spread so lar. With the seven
Spaniards came one os the savages; who, as I said,
were their prisoners sormerly; and with them also came
the savage whom the Englishmen had lest bound hand
and soot at the treei sor, it seems, they came that way,
saw the slaughter os the seven men, and unbound the
eighth, and brought him along with them ; where, how-
ever, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had
done the two others who were lest when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a -burden to them;
and they were so asraid os their eicaping, that they
thought they were under an absolute necessity to kill
them sor their own preservation i however, the Spani-
ard governor would not consent to it; but ordered that
they should be sent out os the way to my oki cave in the
vailey, and be kept there with two Spaniards to guard
them and give them soodi which was dene; and they
were bound there hand and soot sor that night.
"When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satissy themselves t9
stay any longer there; but, taking sive os the Spani-
ards and themselves, with sour musquets aud a pistol
among them, and two stout quarter-staves, awav they
went in quest os the iavages. And sirst, they came to the
tree where the men lay that had been killed; but it was
easy to see that some more os the savages had been
there; sor they attempted to carry their dead men away,
and had dragged two os them a good way, but had
given it over. From thence they advanced to the sirst
rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortisication still to
see !ome os the smoke; but neither could they here see
any os the savages. They then resolved, though with
all possible caution, to go sorward towards their ruined
plantationi but, a little besore they arrived thither,
coming in sight os the sea-shore, they saw plainly the
savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order to
be gone.
Vol. II. 30. S They
They seemed forry, at sirst, that there was no way
to come at them, to given them a parting blow; but,
upon the whole, were very well fatissied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englithmen being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to
come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them with
needful fupplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any
goo.t; as soon as they heard of it, (for they, living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was
over) came and offered their help and assistance; and
did very friendly work for several days to restore their
habitations, and make necessaries for themi and thus,
in a little time, they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this, they had the farther fa-
tisfaction of seeing three of the lavages canoes come
driving on fhore, and at fome distance trom them, with
two drowned men , by which they had reafon to believe,
that they had met with a storm at fea, which had over-
set some of them; for it had blown very hard the night
after they went off.
However, as some might mifcarry; so, on the other
hand, enough of them efcaped to inform the rest as well
of what thty hnd done, as of what happened to them,
and to fpirit them on to another enterprise of the same
nature; which they, it feems, refolved to attempt,
with lufhcient force to carry all before themi for except
what the sirst man had tcld them of the inhabitants,
they could tsy little to it of their own knowledge, for
they never law one man; and, the fellsiw being killed
that had afsirmed it, they had no other witnels to con-
sirm it.
It was sive or six months after this before they heard
any more of the savages; in which time our men were
in hopes they had not forgot their former bad luck, or
had given over the hopes of betteri when, on a fudden
they were invaded by a most tbimidable sleet of no
Jels than twenty-eight canoes full of favages.
wilh
As the favages came on fliore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the itland, our men had that night to
confult and consider what to do; and, in the sirst
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only fafety before, and would, much
more be so now, while the number of their enemies
was so great; they therefore resolved, sirst of all, to
take down the huts, which were built for the
two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old
cave; becaufe they fuppofed the favages would go di-
rectly thither, as foon as it was day, to play the old
game over again, though they did not now land within
two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the slock of
goats they had at the old bower, as I call it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little ap-
pearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and the
next morning early they posted themfelves with all their
force at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their
coming. As they guested, so it happenedi thefe new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the
island, came ranging along the shore directly towards
the place, to the number of two hundred and sisty, as
near as our men could judge. Our army was but fmall
indeed"; but that which was worfe, they had no arms
for all their number neither. The whole account, if
feems, stood thus. First, as to men—
17 Spaniards.
11 Muskets.
5 Englishmen.
5 Pistols.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's
3 Fowling-pieces. .
father.
5 Muskets, or fowling-
3 Slaves, taken with the
pieces, which were ta-
women, who proved
ken by me from
very faithful.
the mutinous feamen.
j Other naves, who lived
whom I reduced.
with the Spaniards.
2 Swords.

3 Old halberts.
29
To arm thefe, they had
19
* T»
S
To their slaves they tlid not give either musket or susil;
but they had every one an halbert, or a long staff, like
a quarter-staff, with a great spike os iron sastened into
er.ch end os it, and by his side a hatchet; also every
one os our men had hatchets. Two os the women Could
not be prevailed upon, but they would come into the
sight; and they had bows and arrows, which the Spa-
niards had taken srom the savages when the sirst action
happen d,
The Spaniard governor, commanded the whole; and
William Atkins, who, was most daring and bold, com-
manded under him. The savages came sorward like
lions; and our men, which was th; worst os their sate,
had no advantage in their situation i only that Will At-
kins, who now proved a most usesul sellow, with six
men, was planted just behind a small thicket os bushes,
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the sirst os"
pas's by, and then sire into the middle os them; and as
soon as he had sired, to make his retreat, as nimbly as
he could, round a part os the wood, and so come in
behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket
os trees all besore them.
When the iavages came on, they ran straggling about
every wav in heaps, out os all manner oi order; and
Will Atkins let about sisty os them pass by him; then
seeing the reft come in a very thick throng, he ordered
three os his men to sire, having loaded their muskets
with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as largs
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they
knew not; but the consternation and surprize was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were srighted to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and Ice their
men killed, and others hurt, but see no body that did
iti when, in the middle os their sright, William At-
kins, and his other three, let sly again ariiong the
thickest os them; and, in less than a minute, the sirst
three being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Kad William Atkins and his men retired immedi-
ately, as soon as they had sired, as they were ordered,
to
to do, or had the rest os the body been at hand, to have
poured in their shot continually, the savages had been
essectually routed i sor the tenor that was among them
came principally srom thisi viz. that they were killed
by the gods os thunder and lightning, and could iee no-
body that hurt them; but William Atkins, staying to
load again, discovered the cheat. Some os the savages
who were at a distance, spying them, came upon them
behind; and, though Atkins and his men sired at them
also two or three times, and Jcilled above twenty, re-
tiring as sast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
liimsels, and killed one os his scllow Englishmen with
their arrows; as they did asterwards one Spaniard, and
one os the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most gallant sellow, and sought most
desperately, killing sive os them with his own hand,
having no weapon but one os the armed staves and a
hatchet.
Our men being thus hard put to it, Atkins wounded
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground
in the wood; and the Spaniards, aster siring three vol-
lies upon them, retreated also i sor their number was
so great, and they were so desperate, that though above
sisty os them were killed, and more than so many
wounded, yet they came on in the sace ot our men, sear-
less os danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and
it was observed, that their wounded men, who were
not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their
wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they lest the Spaniard and
the Englislvman that were killed behind them; and the
savages, when they came up to them, mangled then-
bodies in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,
and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like
true savages. But, sinding our men were gone, they
did not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up
into a kind os a ring, which is, it seems, their custom;
and shouted twice, in token os their victory. Aster
which, they had the mortisication to see several of
S 3 their
their wounded men sall, dying with the mere loss os
blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rismg grtur.d, Atkins, though he
was wounded, persuaded him to march and charge
them again all together at once. But the Spaniard re-
plied—' Seignior Atkins,you see how their wounded men
'sight; let them alone till morningi all these wounded
'men will lie stiff and sore with their wounds, and saint
'with the loss os blood; and so we shall have the sewer
'to engage.'
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily—'That's true, Seignior, and so m?U I too; and
'that's the reason I would go on while I am warm.'
• Well, Seignior Atkins, (says the Spaniard) you have
'behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will sight
J sor you, is you cannot come eni but I think it best
• to stay till morning.' This was agreed to.
But as it vffas a clear moon-light night, and they
sound the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them
where they by, they afterwards resolved to sall upon
them in the night, especially is they could come to give
them but one volley before they were discovered. This
they had a sair opportunity to do; sor one os the two
Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the sight
began, led them round, between the woods and the iea-
;icÆ, westward, and turning short south, they came so
ioi LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF
were seen or heard, eight os them sired in among them
and did dreadsul execution upon them i in halt a minute
more, eight others sired aster them, pouring in their
small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not
able to sce who hurt them, or which way to sly.
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expe-
dition, and then divided themselves into three bodies,
and resolved to sall in among them all together. Thev
ha.! in each body eight persons; that is to say, twenty
sour;
four; whereos were twenty two rren, and the two wo-
men, who, by the way, sought desperately.
They divided the sire arms equally in each party,
snd also the halberts and slaves,. They would have
ha.'. the women keep back, but they said, they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Harirs; thus sormed
their little army, they marched out srom among the
trees, and came up to the sace os the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could. The savages staed
all together, but were in the utmost consusion, hearing
the r.oise cs our men shouting srom three quartet s to-
gether. They would have sought is they had seen us;
and, as soon as we came near enough to be seen, sent?
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded,
though not dangerously. Our men, however, gave
them no time; but, running up to them, sired among
them three ways, and then tell in with the but-ends os
their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets,
and laid about them so sorcibly, that in a word, they
set up a dismal screaming and howling, slying to save
their lives which way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two sii;hts, about one
hundred and eighty os them. The rest, being srighted
out os their wits, scoured through the woo is, and over
the hills, with all the speed and scar that nimble seet
could help them to do; and, as we did not trouble cur-
selves much to pursue them, they got ali together to
the sea-side, where they landed, and where their canoes
lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet; sor it
blew a terrible storm os wind that evening srom the sea
to the shore, so that it was impotsible sor them to put
oss; nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide
came up, their cances were most os them driven by the
surge os the sea so high upon the shore, that it required
insinite toil to get them ofs; and some os them were
even dashed to pieces agamst the beach, or against one
another.
Our men. though glad os their victory, yet got little
rest
rest that night; but having resreshed themselves as welt
as they could, they resolved to march to that part os
the island where the savages were sled, and see what
posture they were in. This necessarily led them over
the place where the sight had been, and where they sound
several os the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet
past recovering lisei a sight disagreeable enough to ge-
nerous minds; sor a truly great man, though obliged
by the law os battle to destroy his enemy, takes no de-
light in his misery,
However, there was no need to give any order in
this case; sor their own savages who were their servants
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view os the place where the
more miserable remains os the savages army lay, where
there appeared about one hundred still; their posture
was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees
up towards their mouth, and their head put between
the hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shot os them,
the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be sired
without ball, to alarm them. This he did, that by
their countenance lie might know what to expect; viz.
whether they were still in heart to sight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and
so he might manage accordinglv.
This stratagem succeeded; sor as soon as the savages
heard the sirst gun, and saw the slash os the second, they
started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation
imaginable; and, as our men advanced swistly towards
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind os a howling noise, which our men did not under-
stand, and had never heard besore; and thus they ran
up the hills into the country.
At sirst, our men had much rather the weather had
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea. But
they did not then consider, that this might probably
have been the occasion os their coming again in tuch
multitudes as not to be relisted; or, at least, to come sa
many
many and so osten, as would quite desolate the island,
and starve them. Wiii Atkins, theresore, who not
withstanding his wound, kept always w.th them, proved
the best counsellor iiv this case. His advice w;.s, to
take the advantage that offered, and cl-<p iii between
them and their boats, and Ib deprive them os the c?pa-
city ot' ever returning any more to plague the island.
Thev consulted long about this, ai.d icine were against
>t, sor sear ot makmg the wretches sly into the woods,
and live there desperate; ano so they mould have them
to hunt like wild beasts, be asraid to ilir about their
business, and have their plantation continually risled,
all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be re-
duced to a Use ot continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do
with one hundred men, than with one hundred nations;
that as they must destroy their boats, so they must de-
stroy the men, cr be all os them destroyed themselves.
In a word, he shewed them the necessity os it so plainly
that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and, getting some dry wood to-
gether srom a dead tree, they tried to set some os them
on sire; but they were so wet, that they would scarce
burn. However, the sire io burned the upper part,
that it soon made them unsit sor swunming in the sea
as boats. When the Indians saw what they were about,
some os them came muning out os the woeds; and
coming a? near as they could to our men, knet led down,
and cried—' On, en, luaramakoci and tome etherwerds
os their language, which none os the others understood
any thing osi but as they made pitisul gestures, and
strange noises, it was easy to understand, they begged to
have their boats spared, and that they would be gone,
and never come thither again.
But our men were now satissied, that they had r.o way
to preicrve themselves or to save their colony, but es-
scctually to prevent any os these people srom ever going
home again; depending upon this, that is ever so much
as one os them got back into their country to tell the
story.
story, the colony was undone. So that, letting tliem
know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one
that the stor n had not destroyed besore; at the sight os
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard plain enough; aster which they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know at sirst what to do
with them.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, con-
sider, that while they made those veople thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; sor though it is true they had
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind
their main retreat; (I mean my old castle at the hill,
not my cave in the valley;) yet they sound out
my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to
pieces, and all the scnces and planting about it; trod
all the corn under soot, tore up the vines and grapes,
being just then almost ripe; and did our men an inesti-
mable damage, though to themselves not the smallest
kind os service.
Though our men were able to sight them upon all
occasions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them,
or hunt them up and downi sor as they were too nimble
os soot sor our men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single, sor sear os being
surrounded with their numbers.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable; but, at the same time,
our men were also brought to very hard circumstances
by them; sor though their retreats were preserved, yet
their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled;
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves they
knew not. The only resuge they had now, was the
stock os cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. The three Englishmen,
"William Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced
Jo two, one os them being killed by an arrow, which
struck
struck him on the side of his head, just under the temple,
fo that lie never fpoke more; and it was very remark-
able, that this was the fame barbarous fellow who cut
the poor favage slave with his hatchet, and who after-
wards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their cafe to have been worse at this
time, than mine was at any time after I sirst difcovered
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle;
for now they had, as I may fay, a hundred wolves on
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The sirst thing they concluded, when they law what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if possi-
ble drive them up to the farther part os the island, fouth-
east, that if any more favages came on shore, they might
not sind one another; then, that they would daily hunt
and harrafs them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they
could at last tame them, and bring them to any thing,
they would give them corn, and teach them how to plant
and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and so terrisied
them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them
sired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for fenr; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and far-
ther; till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept
up in the woods and hollow places so much, that it re-
duced them to the utmost misery for want of food ; and
many were afterwards found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our menfound this, it made their hearts relent,
and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard governor,
who was the most g< 'itleman like, generous minded
.man, that I ever met with in my life i ana he proposed,
if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to
understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as
as interpreter, and to go among them, and see is they
might be brought to some conditions, that might be
depended upon to, save their lives and to do us no in-
jury.
It was some time besore any os them could be taken;
but, being vreak, and hals starved, one os them was at
last suprized, and made a prisoner; he was sullen at
sirst, and would neither eat nor drink; but sinding him-
sess kincly used, and victuals given him, and no vio-
lence offered him; he at last grew tractable, and came
to himicls.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked osten
with him, and tcld hiin how kind the others would be
to them all; that they would not only Iave their lives,
but would give them a part os the island to live in, pro-
vided they would give satissaction, that they should keep
in their own bounds, aud not come beyond them, to
injure or prejudice others; and that they should have
corn given them, to plant and make it grow sor their
bread, and some biea,i given them ior their present sub-
sistence i and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk
wiih the rest os his countrymen, and see what they said
to it; assuring them, that is they did not agree imme-
diately, they should all be destroyed*
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled and reduced
in number to about thirty seven, closed with the propo-
sal at the sirst effer, and begged to have some sood given
them; upon which twelve Spaniards and two English-
men, well armed, and three Indian slaves and old Friday
marched to the place where they were. The three In-
dian staves carried them a large quantity os bread, and
seme nee bciled up to cakes, and dried in the sun, and
three live g-'ats; and they were ordered to go to the
side os a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions
very thankiully, and were the most saithsul iellows to
their words rh it could be thought os; sor, except when
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came
out ot their bounds; and there they lived when I came
to the island, and I went to see them.
They
They had taught them both to plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them. They wanted
nothing but wives, and they soon would have been a na-
tion. They were consined to a neck ot land, furrounded
with high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards
the fea before them, on the fouth-east corner of the itland.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruit-
ful; for they had a piece os land about a mile and a half
broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden fpades, fuch
as I made for myfels; and gave among them twelve
hatchets, and three or four knives ; and there they lived,
the most fubjected; innocent creatures that ever were
heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity,
with refpect to the favages, till I came to revisit them,
which was in about two years. Not but that now and
then some canoes of favages came on more for their
triumphal unnatural feasts; but as they were of feveral
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of thofe who
came before, or the reafon of it, they did not make any
fearch or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them, to my return; at least, that was
worth notice. The Indians, or favages, were won-
derfully civilized by them, and they frequently went
among them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the
Indians coming to them, becaufe they would not have
their fettlements betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the favages to make wicker-work,or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters, for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly,
all sorts ot baskets, sieves, bird cages, cupboards, &c.
as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at fuch work
when they were once put in the way of it.
Vol. II. 30. T My
My coming was a particular relies to these people,
because we surnished them with knives, scissars, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things os that kind which
they could want.
With the help os these tools they were so very handy,
trfet they came at last to build up their huts or houses,
very handsomely; raddling, or working it up like bas-
ket work all the way round, which was a very extra-
ordinary piece os ingenuity, and looked very odd; but
was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat, as
well as against all sorts os vermin; and our men were so
taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come
and do the like sor them; so that when I came to see
the two Englishmens colonies, they looked, at a
distance, as is they lived all like bees in a hive; and as
sor Will Atkins, who was now become a very indus-
trious, necessary, and sober sellow, he had made himsels
such a tent os basket-work, as I believe was never seen;
it was one hundred and twenty paces round on the
outside, as I measured by my steps; the walls were as
close worked as a basket, in pannels or squares, thirty-
two in number, and very strong, standing about seven
seet high i in the middle was another, not above twen-
ty-two paces round, but built stronger, being eight
square in its sorm, and in the eight corners, stood eight
very strong posts, round the top os which he had laid
strong pieces, joined together with wooden pins, srom
which he laid a pyramid besore the roos os eight rasters,
very handsomely constructed, and joined together very
well, though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes
which he had made himsels out os the old iron which I
had lest there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance os ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge osi he made himsels a sorge, with a pair os
wooden bellows to blow the sire; he made himsels char-
coal sor his work, and sormed out ot or.e os the iron
crows a middlmg good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially, hooks,
staples, and spikes, bolts and hinges.
The
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round
this inner apartment, and long rasters lay srom the
thirty-two angles, to the top posts os the inner-house,
being a'io\it twenty-seet distant; so that there was a
space like a walk, within the outer wicker-wall, and
without the inner, near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same
wicker-work, but much sairer, and divided into six
apartments, so that he had six rooms on a sloor, and out
- os every one os these there was a door; sirst, into the
entry or coming into the main tent,, and another door
into the space or walk that was round it; so that this
walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served
not only sor a retreat,'but to store up any necessaries
which the samilies had occasion sor. These six spaces
not sakingupthe whole circumserence, what other apart-
ments the outer circle had, were thus ordered i As soon
as you were in at the door os the outer circle, you had a
short passage straight besore you to the door os the inner
house; but on either side was a wicker partition, and a
door in it, by which you went, sirst into a large room
or store-house, twenty seet wide, and about thirty seet
long, and through that into another not quite so long. So
that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six os
which were only to be come at through the apartments
os the inner tent, and served as closets or retired rooms
to the respective chambers os the inner circle; and sour
large warehouses or barns, or what you please to call
them, which went in through one another, two on either
hand os the passage, that led through the outer door to
the inner tent.
Such a piece os basket-work, I believe, was never
seen in the world; nor an house or tent so neatly con-
trived, much less so built. In this great bee-hive lived
the three samilies; that is to say, Will Atkins and his
companion; the third was killed but his whe remained
with three children; sur she was, it seems, big with
child when he died; and the other two were not at all
backward lo give the widow her sull share os every
3 thing
hing; I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c..an4
when thev killed a kid, or sound a turtle on the shore;
Co that they all lived well enough, though, it was true,
thev were not so industrious as the other two, as has
been observed already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as
sor religion, I don't know that there was any thing os
that kind among them i they pretty osten, indeed, put
one another in mind that there was a God, by the very
common method os seamen, viz. swearing by his name.
Nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the
better sor having been married to Christians, as we must
call them; sor as they knewvery little os God themselves,
so they were utterly incapable os entering into any dis-
course' with their wives about a God, or to talk any
thing to them concerning rtligion.
The utmost os all the improvement which I could fry
the wives had made srom them, was, that they had
taught them to speak English pretty well; and all the
children they had, which were near twenty in all, were
taught to speak English too, srom their sirst learning to
speak, though they at sirst spoke it in a very broken
manner like their mothers. There were none os these
children above six years old when I came thither; sor it
was not much above seven years that they had setched
these sive savage ladies over; but they had all been
pretty sruitsul, sor thev had all children, more or less. I
think the cook's mate's wise was big os her sixth child;
and the mothers were all a good sort os well-governed,
quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpsul to
one another, mightv observant and subject to their mas-
ters, (I cannot call them husbands) and wanted no-
thing bat to be well instructed in the Christian relip-ion,
and to be legally married; both which were happily
brought about asterwards by my means, or, at least,
by the consequence os my coming among them,
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
\
*ha...

LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
'O F
V
- By DANIEL DE FOE.
Coots'g ÆDititm.
VOL. II.
IIIIELliSHED WITH ENCRAVING*.

Printed for C. COOKK, No. 17,
riTSl-SOITIl-ROWi
fa.
/LIFE and ADVENTURES
'•-IH-I1*** OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
VOLUME THE SECOND.
I
AM now to be supposed to be retired into my castle,
aiter my late voyage to the wreck, my srigate laid up,
Mid secured under water as usual, and my condition
restored to what it was besore; I had more wealth
indeed, than I had besore, but was not at ail the richer;
sor I had no more use sor it, than the Indians os Peru
.had besore the Spaniards came thither.
It was one os the nights in the rainy season in March,
the sour-and-twentieth year os my sirst setting soot in
this island os solitariness, I was lving in my bed, or
hammock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, no
distemper, no uneasiness os body, no, nor any uneasi-
ness ot mind more than ordinary, but could by no
means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no, not
a wink all night long, otherwise than as sellows—
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-.
merable crowd os thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughsare os the brain, the memory, in this
night's timei I ran over the whole history os my lise in
miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, to
my coming to this island; and also os that part os my
lise smce I came to this island; in my reslections upon
the state os my case, since I came on shore on this island,
I was comparing the happy posture os my affairs, in
the sirst years os my habitation here, to that course os
aiKiety, sear and care, which I had lived in ever since
I had seen the print os a scot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the ravages had srequented the island even all
the while, and might have been several hundred ot them
at times on ftiore there; but as I had never known it,
and was incapable os any ap;-i\.hcnsions about it, my
satissaction,
satissaction was persect, though my clanger was the
same; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger,
as is I had never really been exposed to it; this surnished
my thoughts with many very prositable reslections, and
particularly this one—' How insinitely good that Pro-
'vidence is, which has settled in its government os
* mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and know-
* ledge os things; and though he walks in the midst os
« so many thousand dangers, the sight os which, isdis-
« covered to him, would distract his mind, and sink hi*
'spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the
* events os things hid srom his eyes, and knowing no-
* thing os the dangers which surround him.'
Aster these thoughts had sor some time entertained
me, I came to reslect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in sor so many years in this very island; and
how I1iad walked about in the greatest security, and
with all potsible tranquillity, even when perhaps no-
thing but a brow os an hill, a great tree,- or the casual
approach os night, had been between me and the worst
kind os destruction; viz. that os salling into the hand*
os canibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I did a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour ire, than
I did os a pigeon or a curlieu; I should unjustly slander
mysels, is I should say I was not sincerely thanksul to
my Great Preserver, to whose singular protection I ac-
knowledged, witli great humility, that all these un-
known deliverances were due, and without which
I thculd inevitably have sallen into their mcrcilcs*
hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was sor
some time taken up in considering the nature os these
wretched creatures; I mean the savages; and how it
came to pais in the world, that the Wise Governor os
all things should give up any os his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even bru-
tality itsels, as to devour its own kindi but as this
taded in some (at that time' sruitless) speculations, it
•ccurrai
occurred to me to enquire what part ot' the world these
wretches lived in; how sar off the coast was srom whence
they came; what they ventured so sar srom home sor;
what kind os boats they had; and why I might not
order mysels, and my business so, that I might be as
able to go over thither, as they were to come to
me.
I never so much as troubled mysels to consider, what
I should do with mysels when I came thither; what
mould become os me, is I sell into the hands os the sa-
vages; or how I should escape srom them, is they at-
tempted me;. no, nor so much as how it was possible
sor me to reach the coast, and not be attempted by some
or other os them, without any possibility os delivering
mysels; and is I should not sall into their hands, what
I mould do sor provision, or whither I should bend my
course; none os these thoughts, I say, so much as came
in my way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the
notion os my passing over in my boat to the main landi
I looked back upon my present condition, as the most
miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able
to throw mysels into any thing but death that could be
called worse; that is I reached the shore os the main, I
might, perhaps, meet with relies; or I might coast
along, as I did on the shore os Asrica, till I came to
some inhabited country, and where I might sind some
relies, and aster all, perhaps, I might sall in with some
Christian ship that might take me in; and is the worst
came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an
end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this
was the sruit os a disturbed mind, an unpatient temper,
made, as it were, desperate by die long continuance os
my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had been on board os, and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed sor, viz.
somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
srom, os the place where I was, and os the probable
means os my deliverancei I say, I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts. All my calm os mind in my resig-
Vol. II. B nation
nation to Providence, and waiting the issue os the dis-
positions os Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I
had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to any
thing, but the project os a voyage to the main, which
came \ipon me with such sorce, and such an impetuo-
sity os desire, that it was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts sor two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a scrment, and my pulse beat as high as is I had
been in a sever, merely with the extraordinary servour
os my mind about it; nature, as is I had been satigued
and exhausted with the very thought os it, threw me
into a sbund steep i one would have thought I should
have dreamed os it; but I did not, nor os any thing
relating to it; but I dreamed, that as I was going out
in'the morning, as usual, srom my castle, I saw upon
the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming to
land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him;
when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to
kill jumped away, and ran sor his lise; then I thought
in mv steep, that he came running into my little thick
grove, besore my sortisication, to hide himsels; and
that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the
others sought him that way, shewed mysels to him, and
smiling upon him, encouraged himi that he kneeled
down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon
which I shewed my ladder, made him go up it, and car-
ried him into my cave, and he became my servant; and
that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to mysels—
'Now I may certainly venture to the main land; sor
'this sellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
'what to do, and whither to go sor provisions, and
'whither not to go sor scar os being devoured; what
'places to venture into, and what to escape.' I waked
with this thought, and was under such inexpressible im-
pressions os joy at the prospect os my escape in my
dream, that the disappointments which I sclt upon
coining to mysels, and sinding it was no more than a
dream,
dream, were equally extravagant the other-way, and
threw me into a very great dejection ot spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go about an attempt sor an escape, was,
is possible, to get a savage in my possession; and, is
possible, it should be one os their prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill; but these thoughts still were attended with this
dissiculty, that it was impossible to effect this, without
attacking a whole boc'y os them, and killing them
all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt,
and might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had
greatly scrupled the lawsulness os it to me, and my heait
trembled at the thoughts os shedding Ib much blood,
though it was. sor my deliverancei I need not repeat
the arguments which occurred to me against this, they
being the same mentioned besore; but though I had
other reasons to osser now, viz. that those men were
enemies to my lise, aud would devour me, is they could;
that it was sels-preservation, in the highest degree, to
destroy them, and that I should be acting in my
own desence, as much as is they were actually
assaulting me, and the like; I say, though thele things
argued sor it, yet the thoughts os studding human
blood sor my deliverance were very terrible to me,and shch
as I could by no means reconcile mysels to a great while.
However, at last, aster many secret disputes with
mysels, and aster gieat perplexities about it (sor all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in my
head a long time) the eager prevailing desire os deli-
verance at length mastered all the rest; I resolved, is
possible, to get one os these savages into my hands,
cost what it would i my nexi thing then was to contrive
how to do it; and this, indeed, was very dissicult to re-
solve on; but as I could pitch upon no probable means
sor it, so I resolved to put mysels upon the watch, to
see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to
the event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let them be what they might.
B a With
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set mysels
upon the scout, as osten as possible, and indeed so osten
till I was heartily tired os it; sor it was above a year
and a hals that I waited, and sor a great part os that
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west
corner os the island, almost every day, to look sor ca-
noes, but none appearedi this was very discouraging,
and began to trouble me much; though I cannot say
that it did in this case as it had done some time besore
that, viz. wear off the edge os my desire to execute my
designs ; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was sor iti in a word, I was not at sirst
more caresul to avoid being seen by these savages, than
I was now eager to attack them.
Besides, I sancied mysels able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, is I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do what ever I mould
direct them, and to prevent their being able, at
any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great while
that I pleased mysels with this affair, but nothing still
presented; all my sancies and schemes came to nothing,
sor no savages came near me sor a great while.
About a year and a hals aster I had entertained these
notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, sor want os an occasion to put
them into execution, I was surprized one morning early,
with seeing no less than sive canoes all on more together,
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out os my sighti the number of them
broke ail my measures; tor seeing so many, and know-
ing that they always came sour, or six, or sometime*
more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think os it, or
how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed,
and discomsited; however, I put mysels into all the
same postures sor'an attack that I had sormerly pro-
vided, and was just ready sor action, is any thing had
presentedi having waited a good while, listening to
hear is they made any noise, at length being very im-
patient,
patient, I set my guns at the foot os my ladder, and
clambered up to the top os the hill by two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill; so that they could not perceive me
by any meansi here I observed, by the help os my
perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number, that they had a sire kindled, and that they
had had mci: dressed; how they cooked it, that I know
not, or what it was; but they were all dancing, in I
know not how many barbarous gestures and sigures,
their own wny, round the sire.
When I was, thus looking on them, I perceived by
my perspective two miserable wretches dragged srom
the boats, where it seems, they were laid by, and were
now brought out sor the slaughter. I perceived one os
them immediately sall, being knocked down, I suppose,
with a club or wooden sword, sor that was their way;
and two or three others were at werk immediately, cut-
ting him open sor their cookery, while the other victim
was lest standing by himsels, fill they should be ready
sor himi in that very moment this poor wretch seeing
himsels a little at liberty, nature inspired him with
hopes os lise, and he started away srom them, and ran
with incredible swistness along the sands, directly to-
wards me; I mean towards that part os the coast where
my habitation was.
I was dreadsully srighted (that I must acknowledge)
whert I perceived him run my way; and especially when,
as I thought, I saw him pursutcl by the whole body;
and now I expected that part o'i my dream was coining
to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my
grove; but I could not depend, by any means, upon
my dream sor the rest os it; viz. that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and sind him therei how-
ever, I kept my station, and my spirits began to reco-
ver, when I sound that there were not above three men
that sollowed him; and still more was I encouraged,
when I sound that he outstrips them exceedingly in ruu,-
B 3 p/uig
ning, and gained ground os them, so that is lie could
but hold it for hals an hour, I saw easily he would sairly
get away srom them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned osten at the sirst part os my story,
when I landed my cargoes out os the ship; and this I
knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch
would be takeni but when the savage, escaping, came thi-
ther, he made nothing os it, though the tide was then
up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with ex-
ceeding strength and swistness ; the three pursuers came
to the creek, I sound that two os them could swim but
the third could not, and that he, standing on the other
side, looked at the other, but went no sarther, and soon
aster went sostly back again; which, as it happened,
was very well sor him in the main.
I observed that the' two who swam, were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
scllow was that sled srom them; it came now very
warmly into my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
this was the time to get a servant, and perhaps a com-
panion or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Pro-
vidence to save this poor creature's lise. I immedi-
ately got down the ladders with all possible expedition,
sctched my two guns, sor they were both at the soot os
the ladder, as I observed besore; and getting up again
with the same haste to the top os the hill, I crossed to-
wards the sea; and, having a very short cut, and all
down hill, clapped mysels in the way between the pur-
siiers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that sled;
who, looking back, was at sirst perhaps as much
srighted at me as at them; but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back; and in the menn time I
slowly advanced towards the two that sollowed; then
rushing at once upon the soremost, I knocked him down
with the stock os my piece; I was loth to sire, be-
cause I would net have the rest hear; though at that
distance
distance it would not have been easily,heard; and be-
ing out os sight os the smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make os it.
Having knocked this scllow down, the other who
pursued him stopped, as is he had been srightened, and
I advanced apace towards him; but as I came nearer,
I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was
sitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to
shoot at him sust; which I did, and killed him at the sirst
shot. The poor savage who sled, but had stopped,
though he saw both his enemies, sallen, and killed, (as
he thought) yet was so srighted with the sire and noise
os my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came
sorward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to sly still than to come on. I hallooed again
to him, and made him signs to come sorward, which he
easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, and then a little sarther, and stopped again; and
I could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he
had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed,
as his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come
to me, and gave him all the encouragement I could think
os; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every
ten or twelve steps, in token os acknowledgement sor
saving his lisc. I smiled at him, looked pleasantly,
and beckoned him to come still nearer. At length
he came close to me, and then kneeled down again,
and kissed the ground, and laid his head upon it, and
taking me by the soot, set my soot upon his headi
this, it seems, was in token os swearing to be my slave
sor ever. I took him up, made much os him, and en-
couraged him all I could. But there was more work
to do yet; sor I perceived the savage, whom I knocked
down, was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and
began to come to himselsi so I pointed to him, and
shewed him the savage, that he was not dead; upon
this lie spoke some words to me, and though I could
not understand them, yet I'thought they were plea-
sant to hear, sor they were the sirst sound os a man's
voice
'voice that I had heard (my own exempted) sor above
sive-and-twenty years i hut there was no time sor iuch
reslections nowi the savage, who was knocked down,
recovered himsels so sar, as to sit up upon the ground;
and I perceiv.d that mv savage began to be atraid;
but when I law that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as is I would snoot himi upon this my savage, sor
ib I cal'ed him now, ma'le a motion to me to lend him
my I word, which liuiig nak,d in a belt by my side; ib
1 did i be no sooner had it, but he ran to his eiKmy,
and at one blow cut oss his head so cleverly, no execu-
tiorer in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very stiange for one, who I had reason
to believe, never saw a Iword in his lise besore, except
their own woer'en swords; however, it seems, as I
learned asterwards, they made their wooden swords so
sharp, ib heavy, and the wood so hard, that they will
cut oss heads even with them, aye, and arms, ar.d that
at one blow. When he had done this, he came
laughing to me in sign os triumph, and brought me the
sword again; and with abundance os gestures, winch I
did not understand, la.d it down, with the head os the
savage that he had killed, just besore me.
But that which astonished him most was, to know
how I had killed the other Indian so sar off; so point-
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him i
so I bade him go as well as I could. When he came
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him; turned
him sirst on one side, then on the other; looked at
the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was
just in his breast, where it had made an hole, and no
great q-aotity os blood had sollowed, but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He then took up
his bow and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go
away, an 1 beckoned him to sollow, making signs to
him, that more might come alter them. *
Upon this he signisied to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not-be seen by the rest,
es .hey sollowed; and so I made signs again t him to do

so. He sell to work, and in an instant had scraped
an hole in the sand with his hands, large enough to bury
the sirst in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him; and did so also by the other. I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter os an hour. Then call-
ing him away, I took him not to my castle, but quits
away to my cave, on the sarther part os the island; so
I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz.
that he came into my grove sor shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch os raisins to
eat, and a draught os water, which I sound he was in-
deed in great distress sor by his running; and having re-
sreshed him, I made signs sor him to go lie down and
sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great par-
cel os rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used
to sleep upon mysels sometimes; so the poor creature
Jay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome sellow, persectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large ; tall, and
well-shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years
os age. He had a very good countenance, not a sierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his sace, and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness os an European in his countenance too, espe-
cially when he siniledi his hair was long and black, not
curled like wool; his sorehead very high and large, and
a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The colour os his skin was not quite black, but very
tawny, and yet not os an ugly yellow, nauseous tawny,
as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of
America are, but os a bright kind, os a dun olive co-
lour, that had in it something very agreeable, though
not very easy to describe. His sace was round and
pkunp, his nose small, not slat like the Negroes; a
very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth sine, well
set, and white as ivory. Aster he had slumbered, ra-
ther than slept, about hals an hour, he waked again, and
came out os the cave to me, sor I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the inclosure just by. When
ht
he espied me, he came running to me, laying himsels
down agam upon the ground, with all the possible signs
os an humble, thanksul disposition, making many antic
gestures to ihew it. At last he laid his head slat upon
the ground close to my soot, and set my soot upon His
head, as he had clone besore; and aster this made all
the signs tome os subjection, servitude, and submission
imaginable, to let me know how much he would serve
me as long as he lived. I understood him in many
things, nr.d let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and sirst, I made him know his
name should be Friday, which was the day I saved his
lise, and called him so sor the memory os the time; I
likewise taught him to say 'Master,' and then let him
know that was to be my name; I likewise taught him
to say les a.id No, and to know the meaning os them;
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
\see me drink it besore him, and sop my bread in it;
and I gave him a cake os bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
very good sor him.
I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and
Jet him know I would give him some cloaths, at which
he seemed very glad, sor he was stark-naked. As we
went by the place where lie had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me the marks
that he had made to sind them again, making signs to
me that we should dig them up again, and eat them;
at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence os it, made as is I would vomit at the thoughts
os it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he did immediately with great submisiion.
I then led him up to the top os the hill, to see is his
enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I looked
and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no
appearance os them, or os their canoes; so that it was
plain they were gone, and had lest their two comrades
behind
behind them, without any search aster them. How-
ever, I was not content with this discovery) but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I sound he could use very dexterously,
making him cany one gun sor me, and I two sor my-
sels, and away we marched to,the place where those
creatures had been; sor I had a mind now to get some
suller intelligence os them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran cold in my veins, and my heart sunk
within me at the horror os the spectacle. Indeed it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing os it. The place was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with the blood,
great pieces os slesh left here and there hals eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens os
the triumphant seast they had been making there, a'ter
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, sive
hands, and the bones os three or sour legs and seet,
and abundance os other parts os the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand, that
they brought over sour prisoners to seast upon; that
three os them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to
himsels, was the sourth; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose sub-
jects, it seems, he had been one os; and that they had
taken a great number os prisoners, all os whom were
carried to several places by thote that had taken them
in the sight, in order to seast upon them, as was done
here by these wretches upon those they brought hi-
ther.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, skih,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on an
heap, and make a great sire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I sound Friday had still a hankering stomach
alter some os the sleih, and was still a canibal in his
nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts os it, and at the least appearar.ee os it,
that
that he durst not discover it; sor I had, by some
means, let him know, that I would kill him is he os-
scred it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I set to work sor my man Friday; and sirst
-os all, I gave him a pair os linen drawers, which I had
out os the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which
I sound in the wreck; and which, with a little alte-
ration, sitted him very well; then I made him a jerkin
'- os goat's skin, as well as my (kill would allow, sor I
was now grown a tolerable good taylor; and I gave
him a cap, which I had made os an hare-slcin, very con-
venient, and saihionable enough: and thus he was
dressed, sor the present, tolerably well, and highly was
he pleased to see himsels almost as well cloathed as his
master. It is true, he went aukwardly in these things
it sirsti wearing the drawers was very aukward to him,
and the sleeves os the waistcoat galled his shoulders and
the inside os his aims; but by letting them out a little, ,
and a sarther practising their use, they became easy and
familiar to him.
The next day aster I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I ihould lodge him; and
that I might do well sor him, and yet be persectly easy
mysels, I made a little tent sor him in the vacant place
between my two sortisications, in the inside os the last,
and in the outside os the sirsti and as there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a sormal sramed
door case, and a door to it os boards, and set it up in
the passage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside os my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it must
needs awaken me; sor my sirst wall had now acompleat
roos over it os long poles, covering all my tent, and
leaning up to the side os the hill, which was again laid
across with small sticks instead os laths, and then thatch-
ed over a great thickness with the rice straw, which was
a strong
strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
lett to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind
os trap-door, which, is it had been atienipsed on the
out-side, would not have opened at all, but would have
sallen down, and made a great noise; and as to wea-
pons, I took them all in to my side every night.
But I needed none os all this precaution; sor never
man had a more saithsul, loving, sincere servant, than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullennes's, or de-
signs; persectly obliging and engaging; his very as-
scctions were tied to me, like thole os a child to a sa-
ther, and I dare say, he would have sacrisiced his lise
sor the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
The many testimonies he gave me os this put it out os
doubt; and soon convinced me, I needed not to use any
precautions as to my sasety on his account.
This srequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God in his
providence, and in the government os the works os
his hands, to take srom so great a part os the world os
his creatures, the best uses to which their saculties and
the powers os their souls are adapted; yet that he has
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason,
the same affections, the same sentiments os kindness and
obligation, the same passions and resentments os wrongs,
the same sense os gratitude, sincerity, sidelity, and all
the capacities os doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to us; and that when he pleases to offer
them occasions os exerting these, they are as ready, nay,
more ready, to apply them to the right uses sor which
they are bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reslecting, as the seve-
ral occasions presented, how mean an uie we make os
all these powers enlightened by the great lamp os in-
struction, the Spirit os God, and by the knowledge os
his Word, added to our understanding; and why it has
pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so
m?.ny souls, who, is I might judge by this poor savage,
would make a much better use os it than we did?
Vol. II. 29 C From
From hence I sometimes was led too sar to invade
the sovereignty os Providence, and, as it were, arraign
the justice os so arbitrary a disposition os things, that
mould hide that light srom some, and reveal it to others,
and yet expect a like duty srom both. But I checked
my thoughts with this conclusioni First, That we dd
not know by what light and law these should be con-
demned; but that, as God was necessarily, and by the
nature os his being, insinitely holy and just, so it could
be, but that is these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence srom himsels, it was on account os sinning against
that light, which, as die Scripture sa)s, 'was a law to
« themselves,' and by such rules as their consciences
would acknowledge to be just, though the soundation
was not discovered to us. And, secondly, That still, as
we are all clay in the hand os the potter, no vesl'el could
say to him—' Why hast thou sormed me thus?
But to return to my new companion. I was greatly
delighted to teach him every thing*that was proper to
make him usesul, handy, and helpsuli but especially
to make him speak, and understand me when I ipoke;
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and parti-
cularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and ib
pleased when he could but understand me or make me
understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk
to him; and now my lise became so easy, that I began
to say to mysels, that could I but have been sase srom
more savages, I cared not is I was never to remove srom
the place while I lived.
Aster I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday ofs
srom his horrid way os seeding, and srom the relish os
a canibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other slesh;
so I took him out with me one morning to the woods; I
went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out os my own
slock, and bring it home and dress iti but, as I was go-
ing, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her. I catched hold os Friday—
• Hold, (said I) stand still,' and made %is to him
not
not to stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot,
and killed one os the kids. The poor creature,
who had at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine, how it
was done, was sensibly surprized, trembled, and shook
and looked so amazed, that I thought he wsuld have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to
seel is he was not wounded ; and, as I sound, presently,
thought I was resolved to kill him; sor he came and
kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand, but I could
easily see that his meaning was to pray me not to
kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed, at
and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned
to him to run and setch it, which he didi and while he
was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-by I
saw a great sowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within
shot; To, to let Friday understand a little what I would
do, I called him to me again, pointing at the sowl,
which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had
been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him sall, I made him understand that
I would moot and kill that bird; accordingly I sired,
and bid him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall. He stood like one srighted again, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him; and I sound he was the more
amazed, because he did not see me put any thing into
the gun; but thought there must be some wondersul
sund os death and destruction in that thing, able to
kill man, beast, bird, or any thing near or sar oss;
the astonishment this created in him was such, as
he could not wear off sor a long time; and I believe, is
I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my guni as sor my gun itsels, he would not so
'Q j much
much as touch it sor several days aster; but would
speak to it, and talk to it, as is it had answered him,
when he was by himsels; which, as I asterwards learn-
ed os him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, aster his astonishment was alittle over at this,
I pointed to him to run and setch the bird I had shot,
which he did, but staid some time; sor the parrot not
being quite dead, was sluttered a good W3y off srom the
place where she sell; however, he sound her, took her
up and brought her to me; and, as I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun besore, I took this advantage
to charge the gun again, and not let him lee me do it,
that I might be ready sor any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that timei so I
brought ;'ome my kid, and the same evening I took
the skm off, and cut it out as well as I could, and hav-
ing a pot sor that purpose, I boiled or stewed some os
the sieth, and made some very good broth; aster I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad os it, and liked it very well; but that which
was strangest to him was, to see me eat salt with it.
He made a sign to me, that the salt was not good to
eat, and putting a little into his own month, he seemed
to nauseate it, and woul spit and sputter at it, wash-
ing his mouth with sresh water aster it; on the other
hand, I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and
I pretended to spit and sputter lor want os salt, as sast
a,s he had done at the salt; but it would not do, he
would never care sor salt with meat, or in his broth;
at least, not sor a great while, and then but a very little.
Hav.ng thus sed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next dav with roasting a
piece o! the kid; this I did by hanging it besore the
sire in a string, as I had seen many people doi in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the sire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the slesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
* liked
liked it, that I could not but understand him i and at
last he told me he would never eat man's slesh any more,
which I was very glad to hear.
The next dav I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sisting it in the manner I used to do, as I
observed besore; and he. soon understood how to do it
as well as I, especially aster he had seen what the mean-
ing os it was, and that it was to make bread osi sor
after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it
too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work sor me, as well as I could do it mvsels.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to
seed instead os one, I must provide more ground sor my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity os com than I used
to do; so I marked out a larger piece os land, and be-
gan the sence in the same manner as besore, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly, and very hard,
but did it very chearsully; and I told him what it was
sor, that it was sor corn to make more bread, because he
was now with me, and that I might have enough sor
him and mysels too. He appeared very sensible os that
part, and let me know, that he thought I had much more
labour upon me on his account, than I had sor mysels,
and that he would work the harder sor me, is I would tell
him what todo.
This was the pleasantest year os all I had spent in
this place i Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names os almost every thing I had occasion to
call sor, and os every place I had to send him to, and
talk a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use sor my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion sor besore; that is to say,
about speech. Besides the pleasiire os talking to him,
I had a singular satissaction in the sellow hunsels; his
simple unseigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creature ; and
on his side, I believe, he loved me more than it was
possible lor him ever to love any thing besore.
I had a mind once to try is he had any hankering in-
C 3 clination
clination to his own country again; and having learned
him E.igl.sh fo well, that he could anfwer me almost
any qudt.ons; I asked him, whether the nation that he
belonged to nevei' conquered in battle. At which he
fmilfd, and iaid ' YiS, yes, we always sight the bet-
ter!' that is, he meant, always get the beiter in sight;
and ib we began the following difcourse. 'You always
'sight the better! (tsid I) how came you to be taken
'prifoner then, Friday?'
Fridav. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How bent! it your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
Fridav. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two, great
tousmd.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
fro'n 'the hand sol your enemies then?
Fridav. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your na-
tion do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away, and cat them, as thefe did?
Fridav. Yes, my nation eat mans tco; eat all
up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Fridav. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Fridav. Yes, yes, they come hither; ceme other
elfe place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Fridav. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N.W.
side os the island, which, it feems, wai their side.)
By this I understood, that my man Friday had for-
merly been am-ing the favages, who ufed to come on
shore entiie farther part of the island, on the fame man-
eating occasions that he" was now brought for; and
fome
fome time after, when I took the courage to carry him
to that side, being the fame I formerlv mentioned, lie
prefentlv knew the place, and told me, he was there
once when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child. He could not tell twenty in English, hut
he numbered them by laving fo many stones in a row,
and pointing to me to ;e!l them over.
I have told this passage, becau.e it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this difcourse with him,
I asked him, how far it was from our itland to the shore,
and whether tht canoes were not often losti he told me
there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that af-
ter a little wav out to fea, there was a current, and a
wind always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the fets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I asterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and re-
slux of the mighty River Oroonoque; in the mouth of
which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth os the riveri I asked Friday a thou-
fand questions about the country, the inhabitants. the
fea, the coast, and what nations were near; he told me
all he knew, with the greatest opennefs imaginablei I
aiked him the names os the feveral nations os his fort
of people, but conid get no other name than the Caribs,
from whence I easily understoood, that thefe were the
Caribees, which our maps place on that part cf Ame-
rica that reaches s'rem the mouth of the River Oroo-
noque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Marthai he told
me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that was,
beyued the fetting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white.bearded men,
like me, and pomted to my great wiskers, which I
mentioned besore; and that they had killed much mans
(that was his word i) by which I understood he meant
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been
been spread over the whole countries, and were remem-
bered by all the nations srom sather to son.
I enquired is he could tell me how I might come srom
this island, and get among those white men; he told
me, yes, yes, I might go in two canoe; I could not
understand what he meant by two canoe ; till at last,
with great dissiculty, I sound he meant, that it must be
in a large great boat as big as two canoes.
This part os Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well; and srom this time I entertained some
hopes, that one time or other I might sind an oppor-
tunity to make my escape srom this place, and that this
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that lie began to speak to me, and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a soundation os religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly, I asked him one
time, who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his
sather; but I took it by another handle, and asked him,
who made the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills
and wood? He told me, it was one old Benamuckee
that lived beyond all. He could describe nothing os
this great person, but that he was very old; much older
he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or the
stars. I asked him then, is this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a persect look os innocence said—;
'All things say O to him.' I asked him, is the people
who died in his country went away anv where. He said,
yes, they all went to Benamuckee. Then I asked him,
whether those they eat up went thither too. He said, yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the know-
ledge os the true God. I told him, that the Great
Maker os all things lived there, pointing up towards
Heaven i that he governs the world by the same power
and providence by which he made it ; that he was om-
nipotent; cousd do everv thing sor us; give every thing
to us, take every thing srom us; and thus, by degrees,
I opened his eyesi he listened with great attention, and
received with pleasure the notion os Jeius Christ being
sent to redeem us, and os the manner or mikmg our
prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
Heaven. He told me, one day, that is our God could
hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way
oss, and yet could not hear, till they went up to the great
mountains where he dwelt, to speak to hun. I asked
is ever he went thither to speak to him. He said, no,
they never went that were young men; none went thi-
ther but the old men, whom he called their Oowooka-
kee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their re-
ligious or clergyi and that they went to say O, (so he
called saying prayers) and then came back, and told
them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that
there is priestcrast even among the most blinded igno-
rant pagans in the world, and the policy os makinp- a
secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration os
the people to the clergy, is not only to be sound in
the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the
world, even among the most brutish and barbarous
savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this sraud to my man Fri-
day, and told him, that the pretence os their old men
going up to the mountains to say O to their god Bena-
muckee, was a cheat, and their bringing word srom
thence v/hat he said, was much more io; that is they
met with any aniwer, or ipoke,with any one there, it
must be with an evil spiriti and then I entered into a
long discourse with him about the devil, the original
os him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man,
the reason os it, his setting himsels up in the dark parts
os the world to be worshipped instead os God, and as
God; and the many stratagems he made use os to de-
lude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access
to our passions, and to our affections, to adapt his
shares so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be
our own tempters, and to run upon our own destruction,
by our own choice. I
I sound it was not so easy to imprint right notions Ii;
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being os
a Godi nature assisted all my arguments to evince to
him even the necessity os a great First Cause, and over-
ruling governing Power, a secret directing Providence,
and os the equity and justice os paying homage to him
that made us, and the likei but there appeared no-
thing os all this in the notion os an evil spirit, os his
original, his being, his nature, and above all, os his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too i
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a man-
ner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that
I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking
a great deal to him os the power os God, his omnipo-
tence, his dreadsul aversion to sin, his being a consum-
ing sire to the workers os iniquity; that as he had
made us all, he could destroy us, and all the world, in
a moment; and he listened with great serioushess to me
all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts os men, and used all his
malice and skill to deseat the good designs os Provi-
dence, and to ruin the kingdom os Christ in the world,
and the like. 'Well (says Friday) but you say, God
'is so strong, so great, is he not much strong, much
< might, as the devil?—' Yes, yes, (laid I) Friday,
'God is stronger than the devil; God iS above the
'deviJ; and theresore we pray to God to tread him un-
'dei" our seet, and enable us to resist his temptations,
• and quench his siery darts.' ' But (says he again) is
• God much strong, much might as the devil, why
f God not kill the devil, so make him no more wicked?'
I was strangely surprized at his question; and, af-
ter all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but
a young doctor, and ill enough qualisied sor a casuist,
pr a solver ot dissiculties i and, at sirst I could not tell
what to say; so I pretended not to hear him, andasked
him what he saidi but he was too earnest sor an answer
to sorget his question j so that he repeated it in the very
fame
feme broken words as above. By this time I had re-
covered mysels a little, and I said—' God will at last
* punish him severely, he is reserved sor the judgment,
* and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with
'everlasting sire.* This did net satissy Friday, but
lie returned upon me, repeating my words—' Reserve
'at last, me no understand i but why not kill the devil
'now, not kill great ago?'—' You may as well ask
* me, (said I) why God does net kill you and me,
* when we do wicked things here that offend himi we are
'preserved to repent and be pardoned.' He mused
awhile at this; 'Well, well! (says he) very affec-
'tionately;' 'that well' so you, I, devil, all wick-
'ed, all preserve, repent, God pardon all!' Here
I was run down again by him to the last degree, and it
was a testimony to me, how the mere notions os nature,
though they will guide reasonable creatures to the know-
ledge os a God, and os a worship or homage due to the
supreme being os God, as the consequence <.s our na-
ture; yet nothing but Divine Revelation can sorm the
knowledge os Jesus Christ, and os a redemption pur-
chased sor us; os a mediator, os a new covenant, and
os an intercessor at the sootstool os God's throne; I say,
nothing but a revelation srom Heaven can sorm these in
the soul; and that theresore the Goipel os our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean, the word os God, and
the Spirit os God, promised sor the guide and sancti-
sier os his people, are the absolutely necessary instruc-
tors os the souls os men in the saving knowledge os God
and the means os salvation.
I theresore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sud-
den occasion os going out; then sending him sor some-
thing a great way oss, I seriously prayed to God, that
he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage,
assisting by his Spirit the heart os the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light os the knowledge os God
in Christ, reconciling him to himsels, and would guide
me to speak so to him srom the Word os Gcd, as his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul savedi when he came again to me, I en-
tered into a long discourse with him upon the subject
ot' the redemption os man by the Saviour os the world,
and os the doctrine os the Gotpel preached srom Hea-
ven; viz. os repentance towards God, and saith in our
blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him, as well
as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature os angels, but the seed os Abraham, and
how sor that reason the sallen angels had no mare in
the redemption; that he came only to the lost sheep os
the house os Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took sor this poor creature's in-
struction; and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will sind, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really insormed and instruct-
ed mysels, in many things that either I did not know,
or had not sully considered besore; but which occurred
•naturally to r.iy mind, upon my searching into fhem sor
the insormation os this poor savage; and I had more
affection in my enquiry aster things upon this occasion,
than ever I selt besore; so that whether this poor wild
wretch was the better sor me or no, I had great reason
to be thanksul that ever he came to me; my gries sat
lighter upon me, my habitation grew comsortable to me
beyond measure; and when I reslected, that in this so-
litary lise which I had been consined to, I had not onlv-
been moved mysels to look up to Heaven, and to seek
to tiie hand that brought me thither, but was now to
be made an instrument, under Providence to save the
lise, and sor aught I know, the soul os a poor savage,
and bring him to the true knowledge os religion, and
os the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ
Jesus, to know whom is lite eternal; I say, when I
reslected upon ail things, a secret joy ran through every
part os my soul, and I srequently rejoiced that ever I
was
was brought to this place, which I had osten thought
the most dreadsul os all afflictions that could possibly
have besallen me.
In this thanksul srame I continued all the remainder
os my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together, persectly
and compieatly happy, is any such thing as compleat
happiness can be sound in a sublunary state. The sa-
vage was now a good Christian, a much better than I;
though I have reaibn to hope, and bless God sor it, that
we were equally penitent, and comsorted, restored peni-
tents i we had here the Word os God to read, and
were no sarther off srom his Spirit to instruct, than is
we had been in England.
I always applied mysels to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I cousd, the meaning os
what I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries and
questions, made me, as I said besore, a much better scho-
lar in the Scripture-knowledge, than I should ever have
been by my own mere private readingi another thing I
cannot resrain srom observing here also srom experience
in this retired part os my lise, viz. how insinite and in-
expressible a blessing it is, that the knowledge ot God,
and os the doctrine os salvation by Christ Jeius, is so
plainly laid down in the Word os God, so easy to be re-
ceived and understood that as the bare reading the Scrip-
ture made me capable os understanding enough os my
duty to carry me directly on to the great work os' sincere
ivpentance sor my sins, and laying hold os a Saviour
sor lise and salvation, to a stated resormation in prac-
tice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor, (I mean human,) so
the plain instruction sussiciently served to the enlighten-
ing this savage creature, and bring him to be such a
Christian, as I have known sew equal to him in my
lisc.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strise, and conten-
tion, which have happened in the world about religion,
Vol. II. 29 D whether
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes or' church-go-
vernment, they were all persectly useless to us; as sor
aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in
the work!i we had the lure guide to Heaven, viz. the
Word os God; and we had, blessed be God, comsorta-
ble views os the Spirit os God, teaching and instructing
us by his word, 'leading us into all truth,' and mak-
ing us both willing and obedient to the instruction os
his word; and I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge os the disputed points in religion, which have
made such contusions in the world, would have been to
us, is we could have obtained it. But I must goon
w.th the historical part os things, and take every part
in its order.
Aster Friday and I becamemore intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almcst all I said to him,
and speak sluently, though in broken English, to me;
I acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much
os it as related to my coming into the place, how I had
lived there, and how long. I let him into the mystery
(sor such it was to him) os gunpowder and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot; I gave him a knisc, which he
was wondersully delighted with; and I made him a belt
with a srog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in; and in the srog, instead os a hanger, I gave
him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon in
some cases, but much more usesul upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries os Europe, and par-
ticularly England, which' I came srom; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one ano-
ther, and how we traded in strips to all the parts os the
world. I gave him an account os the wreck which I had
been on board os, and shewed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay; but me was all beaten in pieces
long besore, ar.d quite gone.
I shewed him the ruins os our boat, which we loft
when we escaped, and which I could not stir wkh my
whole strength then, but was now sallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
gnat
great while, and said nothing; I asked him what it was
he studied upcn. At last, lays he—" Me see such boat
like come to place at my Nation."
I did not understand him sor some time; but at last
when I had examined sarther into it, I understood by him,
that a boat such as that had been come on more upon the
cpwntry where he lived; that is', as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress os weather. I presently ima-
gined, that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought
os men making escape srom a wreck thither, much
less whence they might come; so I only enquired aster
a description os the boct,
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with some warmth—" We save the white mans
"srom drown." I then atked him, is there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat ?" Yes,"
he said, " the boat sull os white mans." I asked him,
bow manyi he told me upon his singers seventeen. I
asked him then what became os them. He told me—
"They live, they dwell at my nation."'
This put new thoughts into my head again; sor
I presently imagined that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight os my
island, as I now call it; and who, aster the ship was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had
saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon
that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this, I enquired os him more critically, what
was become os themi he assured me they lived still there,
that they had been there about sour years, and that the sa-
vants let them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I
asked him, how it came to pass they did not kill them,
and eat them. . He said—" No, they make brother with
"them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and
then he added, " They eat no mans but when make the
"war sighti" that is to say, they never eat any
D z men,
men, but such as come to sight with them, and are
taken in battle.
It was aster this, some considerable time, that being
on the top os the lull, at the east side os the island, srom
whence, as I have laid,] had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent in America; Friday, the weather
being serene, looked very earnestly towards the main
land, and, in a kind os surprize, sell to jumping and
dancing, and calling out to me, sor I was at .'ome distance
from himi I asked him what was the matter. "O
joy!" says he; " O glad! There, see my country,
"there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense os pleasure appeared
in his sace, his eyes ipnrkkd, and his countenance dis-
covered a strange eagerness, as is he had a mind to be in
his own country ngaini and this observation brought
miry thoughts into my mind which made me at sirst
no! so eaiy about my new man Friday as I was besore;
and I ma.le no doubt, but that is Friday could get back
to his own nation again, he would not only sorget all
his religion, but all his obligations to me; and would be
sorward enough to give his countrymen an account os
me, and come back, perhaps, with an hundred or twoos
them, and make a scast upon me, at which he might be
as merry as he used to be with those os his enemies,
when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
sor which I was very sorry afterwards; however, as ir.y
jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was a
little more circumspect, and not so tamiliir and kind to
him as besore; in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest gratesul creature having no thoughts about
him, but what consisted os the best principles, both as a
religious Christian, and as a gratesul friend; as ap-
peared asterwards to my sull satissaction.
Whilst my jealousy os him lasted, you may be sure
I was everydav pumping him, to try is he would dis-
cover any os the new thoughts which I suspected were
>n him; but I found every thing he said was so honest,
and
and so innocent, that I could not discover any thing to
nourish my suspicion; and, in spite os all my uneasiness,
lie made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in
the least perceive that I was uneasy, and theresore I could
not suspect himcs deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the Continent,
I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish
"yoursels in your own country, your own nation ?"—
"Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to be at my own
"nation"—"What would you do there?" said I,
"would you turn wild again, eat man's slesh again,
"and be a savage as you were besore?" He looked full
os concern, and shaking his head, said, " No, no,
"Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray
"God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-slesh, milk;
'" no eat man again."—" Why then," said I to him,
"they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, "No, they no kill me, they willing
"love learn." He meant by this, they would be
willing to learn. He added, they learned much os
the bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked
him, is he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me he could not swim so sar. I told him I
- would make a cancescr him. He told me he would go,
ii I would go with him. "I go!" said I; "why they
*' will eat me is I come there."—" No, no," says' he,
"me make them no eat you, me make they much love
"you." He meant, he would tell them how T had
killed his enemies, and saved his lise, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me, as well as he
gnu Id, how kind they were to the seventeen white men,
or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore
in distress.
From this time, I consess, I had a mind to venture
over, and fee is I ccukl possibly join with these bearded
men, who, I made nodoubt, were Spaniards or Portu-
guese; not doubting but, ii I could, we might sind some
method to esxape frem thence, being upon the continent,
D 3 and
and a good company together, better than I could srom
an island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without
help; so, after some days, I took Friday to work again,
by way os discourse; and told him, I would give him a
boat to go back to !iis own nation; and accordingly I
carried Rim to my srigate, which lay on the other side
os the island; and having cleared it os water1, (sor I al-
ways kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out, shewed
it him. and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous sellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swist and sast again as I
couldi so when he was in, I said to him, "Well, now,
"Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked
very dull at my saying so; which, it seems, was be-
came he thought the boat too small to go so sar. I told
him then I had a bigger; so the next c'ay, I went to the
place where the sirst boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into the water; he laid that was
big enough; but then, as I had taken no care os it, and
it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the sun
had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread; that was
his way os talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so sixed upon my
design os going over with him to the continent, that I
told him we should go and make one as big as that, and
he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I alked him what was
the matter with him? He asked me again thusi "Why
"you angry mad with Friday? what me done?" I
asked him what he meanti I told him I was not angry
with him at all. "No angry! no angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times; "why send Fri-
"day home away to my nation?"—" Why," said I,
"Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?"
—" Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there; no wish
"Fiidny there, no master there." In a word, he
would not think os going there without me. "I go
there,
"there, Friday?" said Ii "whatshould I do there?"
He turned very quick upon me at this; "You do great
deal much goed," says hei "you teach wild mans be
"good, sober, tame mans i you tell them know Cod,
"pray God, and live new lise."—" Alas! Friday,"
said I, "theu knowest not what theu sayesti I am but
"an ignorant man mysels."—" Yes, yes," lays he,
*' you teachee me good, you teechee them good."
—" No, no, Friday," said I, "you mail go without
"mei leave me here to live by mysels, as I did besore."
He locked confused again at that word; and running to
one os the hatchets which he used to wear, he took it up
hastily and gave it me. "What must I cio with this?"
said I to him. '•' You take kill Friday," savs he,
«' What must I kill you sor?" said I again. He re-
turns vety quick, "What you send Friday away sor?
"Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he
speke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In
a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in
him to me, and a sirm resolution in him, that I told him
then, and osten aster, that I would never send him away
srom me, is he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I sound by all his discourse, a
settled affection tome, and that nothing should part him
srom me, so I sound all the soundation os his desire to go
to his own country, was laid in his ardent affection to
the people, and his hor-s os my doing them good; a
thing, which, as I had no notion os mysels, so I had
not the least thought, intention, or desire os undertak-
ing it; but still I sound a strong inclination to my at-
tempting an escape, as above, sounded on the supposi-
ticn gathered srom the sormer discourse, viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and theresore, with-
out any delay, I went to work with Friday, to sind out
a great tree piopir to sell, and make a large perigua or
canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little sleet, not os po
riguns and canoes only, but even os good large vesselsi
but the main thing I locked at, was to get one so near
the water, that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at sirst.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; sor I found he
knew much better than I, what kind os wood was siitest
sor it; nor can I tell to this day what wood to call
the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the
tree we call sustick, or between that and the nicaragua-
wood, sor it was much os the same colour and smell.
Friday was sor burning the hollow or cavity os this
tree out, to make it into a boat; but I shewed him how
rather to cut it out with tools, which, aster I shewed
him how to use, he did very handily, and in about
a month's hard labour we sinished it, and made it very
handsome, especiallv when with our axes, which I shewed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into
the true shape os a boat; aster this, however, it cost us
near a sortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch
by inch, upon great rollers, into the wateri but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
great ease.
When slie was in the water, and though she was so
big; it ainazed me tojee with what dexterity and how
swist my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along; so I asked him it he would, and is we
might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, he ven-
"tureover in her verv well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a sarther design, that he knew nothing
oi, and that was to make a mast and sail, and to
sit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast,
that was eaiy enough to get; so I pitched upon a
straight young cedar-tree, which I sound near the
place, and which there was great plenty os in the
island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to shape and order it;
but as to the sail that was my particular care. I knew
I had old sails, or rather pieces os old sails enough;
but as I had had them now twenty-six years by me, and
had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagin-
ing that I should ever have this kind os uie sor them,
I did
I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and indeed
most "os them were so; however, I sound two pieces
which appeared pretty good, and with these I went to
work, and with a great deal os pains, and aukward te-
dious stitching, (you may be sure) for want cs needles,
I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what
we call in England a ihoulder-os-muttcn sail, togowitha
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such
as usually our ships long-boats sail with, and such as I
best knew how to manage, because it was such an one as
I used in the boat in which I made my escape from Bar-
bary, as related in the sirst part os my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and sitting my mast and sails; sor I sinished
them very compleat, making a small stay, and a sail or
soresail to it, to assist is we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I sixed a rudder to the
stern os her, to steer with; and though I was but a
bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usesulness and
even nectsiity os such a thing, I applied mysels with
so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pal's,
though, considering the many dull contrivances I had
sor it that sailed, I think it cost me almost as much la-
bour as making the boat.
Aster all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation os my boat; sor
though he knew verv well how to paddle the canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and
was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to-
and-again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and silled this way or that way, as the course
we sailed charged; I say, when he saw this, he stood
like one astonished and amazed; however, with a little
use, I made all these things samiliar to him, and he be-
'came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I
could make hun understand very little os that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and
seldom cr never any legs in those parts, there was the
lefo occasion sor a compass, seeing the stars were always
to
to be seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the
rainy seasons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad, ei-
ther by land or lea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year os
my captivity in this place; though the three last years,
that I had this creature with me, ought rather to he lest
out ot the account, my habitation being quite os another
kind than in all the rest os my time. I kept the anni-
versary os my landmg here with the. same thanksulness
to God sor his mercies as at sirsti and is I had such cause
ps acknowledgment at sirst, I had much more so now,
having such additional testimonies os the care os Provi-
dence over me, and the great hopes I had ol bemg es-
scctually and ipeedily delivered; sor I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with my husbandry, digging, plant-
ing, sencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing, as besore.
'The rainy iesson was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more with-in-doors than at other timesi so
I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bring-
ing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the begin-
ning, I landed my rasts srom the ship; and hauling her /
up to the shore, at high-water mark, I made my man
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and
just deep enough to give her water enough to sloat in;
and then when the tide was out, we made a strong dam
across the end os it, to keep the water out; and so she
lay dry, as to the tide, srom the sea; and to keep the
rain oss, we laid a great many boughs os trees so thick,
that me was as well thatched as an house; and thus we
waited sor the months os November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought os my design returned with the sair weather, I
was preparing daily sor the voyage; and the sirst thing
I did was to lay up a certain quantity os provision, being
the score sor the voyage; and intended in a week or a sort-
night'*
night's tune to open the deck, and laur.ch out our boat*
I was busy one morning upon something os this kind,
when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-
st.ore, and see is he could sind a turtle or tortoise, a
ik.ng which we generally got or.ee a wiek, sor the sake
os the eggs as well as the slesh. Friday had not been
1i r.g gone, when he came running back, and slew over
II y outward wall, or sence, like one that selt not the
rrcund, or the steps he set his scet on; and besore I
had time so speak to him, he cried out to me—" O
"n aster! O master! O sorrow! Obad!—"What is
"the matter, Friday!" said I. "O yonder there,"
says he, " one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!""
By this way os speaking, I concluded there were six;
but on enquiry I sound there were but three. "Well,
"Friday," said I, "do not be srightened;" so I hear-
ttr.ed him up as well as I could. However, I law the
J.-oor sellow most terribly scared; sor nothing ran in his
lead but that they were come to lock sor him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him. The poor sellew trem-
bied so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I
comsorted him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as
well as him. "But," said I, " Fi iday, we must resolve
"to sight them. Can you sight, Friday?"—" Me
"shoot," says he; "but there come many great num-
"ber."—" Nomatter sor that," said I again; " our
"guns will sright them that we do not kill." So I
astied him, whether, is I resolved to desend him, he
would desend me, and stand by me, and do just as I
bade him? He sait!—" Me die, when you bid die,
master." So I went and fetched a good dram os rum,
and gave him; sor I had been so geod an husband os
tr.y rum, that I had a great deal lest. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two sowling-pieces which
we always carried, and load them with large swan-sliot,
as big as small pistol-bullets; then I tcok sour mus-
kets, and loaded them with two slugs, and sive bnllets
each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace os bul-
, lets
lets eachi I hung my great sword as usual, naked bv my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared mysels, I took my per-
spective- ijlass, and went up to the side os the hill, to see
what I could discover; and I sound quickly, by my
glass, that there were one-ar.d-twenty savages, three pri-
soners, and three canoes; and that their whole business
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon thele three
human bodies; a barharous scast indeed; but no-
thing more than, as I have observed, was usual with
them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where
a thick wood came close almost down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence os the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, so silled me with indignation, that
I came down again to Friday, and told him I was re-
solved to go down to them, and kill them all; and asked
him is he would stand by me. He wasnowgottenover
his sright, and his spirits being a little rahed with the
dram I had given him, he was very chcarsul; and told
me as besore, " he would die, when I bid die."
In this sit os sury, I took iirst and divided the arms
which I had charged, as besore, between usi I save
Friday one pistol, to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other
three mysels; and in this poftuie we marched out. I
took a small bottle os rum in my pocket, and gr.ve
Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet; and
as to orders, I charged him to keep cio.'e behind me,
and not to stir, shoot, or do any thmg till I bid him;
and in the mean time, not to speak a word. In this
posture I setched a compass to my right-hand os near a
mile, as well to get over the creek, as to get into the
v.ood; so that I might come within shot os them besore
I could be discovered, which I had seen by my glais it
was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my sormer thoughts
2 Icturoing
returning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not
mean, that I entertained any sear ot' their number; sor
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them; nay, though I had been alone;
but it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occa-
sion, much less, what necessity, I was in to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people, who had neither
done or intended me any wrong; who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own
disaster, being in them a token indeed os God's having
lest them, with the other nations os that part os the
world, to such stupidity and to iuch inhuman courses;
but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge os
their actions, much less an executioner os his justice i
that whenever he thought sit, he would take the cause
into his own hands, and by national vengeance punish
them sor national crimes; but that, in the mean time,
it was none os my business; that it was true, Friday
might justisy it, because he was a declared enemy, and
in a state os war with those very particular people, and
it was lawsul sor him to attack them; but I could not
say the same with respect to mysels. These things so
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way I went,
that I resolved I would only go place mysels near them,
that I might observe their barbarous sea It, and that I
would act then as Gcd should direct; but that unless
something offered that was more a call to me than yet
I knew os, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood; and with
all possible wariness and silence, (Friday sollowing close
at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt os the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one corner os the wood lay between me and them. Here
I called sostly to Friday, and shewing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner os the wood, I bade him
go to the tree, and bring me word is he could see there
plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came im-
mediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly
viewed there; that they were all about the sire, eating
Vol. II. 29 E. the
the sle/h os one os the prisoners; and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little srom them, whom he said
they would kill next, and which sired the very soul
within me. He told me it was not one os their nation,
but one os the bearded men whom he had told me os,
who came to their country in the boat. I was silled
with horror at the very naming the white-bearded man;
and "going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a
white man who lay upon the beach os the sea, with his
hands and his seet tied with slags, or things like rushes,
and that he was an European, and had cloaths on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about sisty yards nearer to them than the place where
I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I mould be within
hals mot os them; so I witheld mv passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree,
and then I came to a little rising ground, which gave
me a sull view os them, at a distance os about eighty
yards.
I had now not a moment to losei sor nineteen os the
dreadsul wretches sat upon the ground all close huddled
together, and had just lent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb
to their sire; and they were stooped down to untie the
bands at his seet. I turned to Friday; ' NowFriday,*
laid I, ' do as I bid thee.' Friday said he would.
'Then Friday,' said I, ' do exactly as you see me do }
'sail in nothing.' So I let down one os the muiquets
and the sowling piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the like by his; and with the other musquet I took my
aim at the savages, bidding him do the like. Then
asking him it he was ready, he said—' Yes.'—' Then
sire at them,' said I; and the same moment I sired
also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side lie ihot, he killed two os them, and wounded
three

/tryitm-ttifor Ciho/K.I'.itrnHVttr fair. June ty'i&S- WOSES--
three more; and on my side, I killed one and wounded
two. They were, to be sure, in a dreadsul consterna-
tion; and all os them who were not hurt, jumped up
upon their seet immediately, but did not know which
way to run, or which way to look; sor they knew not
srom whence their destruction came- Friday kept his
eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
observe what I did; so as icon as the sirst shot was
made, I threw down the piece, and took up the sowl-
ing-piece, and Friday did the like i seeing me cock and
present, he did the same again. * Are you ready, Fri-
day?' said I, ' Yes,' said he. 'Let sly then,' said I,
'in the name os God!' and with that I sired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday! and
as our pieces were now loadenwith what I called swan-
mot, or small pistol-bullets, we sound only two drop;
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody and mi-
serably wounded, most os them; whereos three more
scll quickly aster, though not quite dead.
'Now, Friday,' said I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the mus'quet, which was yet
Ioaden, ' sollow me!' which he did with a deal os cou-
rage; upon which I rushed out os the wood, ami shewed
mysels, and Friday close at my soot. As soon as I per-
ceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and
bade-Friday do so too; and running as sast as I could,
(which, by the way, was not very sast, being loaded
with arms as I was) I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was, at I said, laying on the beach, or
sliore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers who were just going to work with
him, had lest him at the surprize os our sirst sire, and
sled in a terrible siight to the' sea-side, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more os the rest made the same
way i I turned to Friday, and bade him step sorwards
and sire at them; lie understood me immediately, and
running about sorty yards to be near them, he shot at
them, and I thought he had killed them all; sor I saw
E x them
them all sall on an heap into the boat; though I saw tw»
os them up again quickly i however, he killed two,
and wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bot-
tom os the boat, as is he had been dead.
While my man Friday sired at them, I pulled out my
knise, and cut the slags that bound the poor victim, and
loosing his hands and seet, I listed him up, and asked
him in the Portuguese tongue what he was? He an-
swered in Latin, ' Christianus;' but was so weak and
saint, that he could scarce stand or speak; I took my •
bottle out os my pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he mould drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece os bread, which he eat; then I asked him what
countryman he was? and he said, ' Espagnole;' and
being a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs
he could potsibly make, how much he was in my debt
sor his deliverance. 'Seignior,' said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, 'we will talk asterwards,
* but we must sight now i is you have any strength lest,
'take this pistol and sword and lay about you.' He
took them very thanksully, and no sooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as is they had put new vigour
into him, lie slew upon his murderers like a sury, and
had cut two os them in pieces in an instant; sor the
truth is, as the whole was a surprize to them, so the
poor creatures were so much srighted with the noise os
our pieces, that they scll down srom mere amazement
and tear, and had no more power to attempt their own
escape, than their sltsh had to resist our shot; and that
was the case with those sive that Friday shot in the
boati sor as three os them sell with the hurt they re-
ceived, so the other two sell with the sright.
I kept mv piece in my hand still, without siring, be-
ing willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to
Friday, and hade him runup to the tree trom whence we
sirst sired, and setch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then giving him my muscruet, I sat down mysels
to
to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading thesc pieces
there happened a- sierce engagement between the Spa-
niard and one os the savages, who made at him with
one or their great wooden swords, the same weapon that
was to have killed him besore, is I had not prevented
it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as
could be imagined, though weak, had sought this In-
dian a good while, and had cut two great wounds on
his head; but the savage, being a stout lusty sellow,
closing in with him, had thrown him down, (being
saint) and was wringing my sword out os his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting
his sword, drew the pistol srom his girdle, shot the sa-
vage through the body, and killed him upon the spot,
besore I, who was running to help, could come near
him.
Friday, being now lest at his liberty, pursued the
slying wretches with no weapon in his' hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three, who
-as I said besore, were wounded at sirst and sallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me sor a gun, I gave him one os the sowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two os the iavages and
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
they both got srom him into the woods, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one os them; but the other
was too nimble sor him; and though he was wounded,
yet he plunged into the sea, and swam with all his might
oss to thole who were lest in the canoe; with three in the
canoe, with one wounded, who we know not whether
he died or no, were all that escaped our hands os oneand
twenty. The account os the rest is as sollows i
3 Killed at our shot srom the tree.
a Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
a Killed byditto, os those at sirst wounded.
1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.
1 E 3 3 Killed
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being sound dropt here and there, os their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace os them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereos one wounded, is not
dead.
21 In all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
os gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three mot
at them, I did not sind that he hit any os them. Friday
would sain have hid me take one ostheir canoes and pur-
sue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people, they
mould come back, perhaps, with two or three hundred
ostheir canoes, and devour us by mere multitudes; so
I consented to pursue them by sea; and running to one
os.their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday sollow
me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprized to
sind another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand
and soot, as the Spaniard was, sor the slaughter, and
almost dead with sear, not knowing what the matter
was; sor he had not been able to look up over the side
os the boat, lie was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had
been tied so long, that he had really little lise in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only un-
bound inorder to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him os his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram; which
with the news os'his being delivered, revived h;m, and
he sat up in the boat; but whin Friday came to hear
him speak, and looked in his sace, it would have moved
any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrang
his
his hands, beat his own sace and head, and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It
was a good while besore I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but whefl he came
a little to himsels, he told me that it was his fjfther.
It was not easy sor me to express how it ipoved me,
to see whatextasy and silial asscction had worked in this
poor savage, at the sight os his sather, and os his being
delivered srom death; nor indeed can I describe hals the
extravagancies ot his asscction aster this; sor he went
into the boat, and out os the boat, a great many timesi
when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his sather's head close to his botom,
hals an hour together, to nourish it; he then took his
arms and ancles, which were numbed and stiff with the
binding, and chased, and rubbed them with his hands;
and I perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum
out os my bottle to rub them with, which did them a
great deal os good.
This circumstance put an end to our pursuit os the ca-
noe with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out os sight; and it was happy sor us that we did not;
sor it blew so hard within two hours aster, and besore
they could be gotten a quarter os their way, and conti-
nued blowing so hard all night, and that srom the north-
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached to their
own coast.
But to return to Friday. He was so busy about his
sather, that I could not sind in my heart to take him off
sor some time; but, aster I thought I could leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I
asked him, is he had given his sather any bread. He
shook his head, and said—' Nonei ugly dog eat all up
sels.'—So I gave him a cake os bread out os a little
pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram sor
himsels, he would not, however, taste it, but carried it to
hi* sather. I had in my pocket, also, two or three
bunches
hunches os raisins; so I gave him a handsul os them sor
his sather. He had no sooner given his sather these rai-
sins, but I saw him come out os the boat, and run away
as is he had been bewitched. He ran at such a rate,
(sor he was the swistest sellow os his seet that ever I
saw ;) I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out os
sight as it were in an instant; and though I called and
hallooed too aster him, it was all one; away he went,
and ina quarter os an hour I saw him come back again
though not so sast as he went; and as he came nearer,
I sound his pace was slacker, because he had something
in his hand.
When he came up to me I sound he had been quite
home sor an earthen jug or pot, to bring his sather some
sresh water;. and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves os bread. The bread he gave me, but the water
he carried to his sather; however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took alittle sup os iti this water revived his sa-
ther more than all the rum or spirits I had given him;
sor he was just sainting with thirst.
When his sather had drank, I called him to know
is there was any water lest; he said, yes i and I bade
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want os it as his sather; and I sent one os the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was,
indeed, very weak, and was reposing himsels upon a
green place, under the shade os a tree, and whose limbs
were also very stiss, and very much swelled with the rude
bandage he had been tied with i when I saw that upon
Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to
him, and gave him a handsul os raisins i he looked up in
my sace with all the tokens os gratitude and thanksul-
ness that could appear in any countenance; but was so
weak notwithstanding he had so exerted himsels in the
sight, that he could not stand up upon his seet; he tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his
ancles were so swelled and so painsul to him; so I bade
him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe
them with rum, as he had done his sather's. I

SUbeb.-nti.drbiiS HnnimeJrh
I observed the poor affectionate creature every two
.minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head about, to see is his sather was in the
same place and posture as he lest him sittingi at length
sinding lie was not to be seen, he started up, and with-
out speaking a word, slew with that swistness to him,
that one could scarce perceive his seet to touch the ground
as he went, but when he came, he only sound he had
laid himsels down to ease his limbs; so Friday came
back to me piesently, and then I spoke to the Spaniard
to let Friday help him up, is he could, and lead him
to the boat, and thenjie should carry him to our dwel-
ling, where I would take care os him; but Friday, a
lusty young sellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon
his back, and carried him away to the boat, and s'et
him down sostly upon the side or gunnel os the canoe,
with his seet in the inside os it, and then listed them
<juite in, and set him close to his sather; and presently
stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled
it along the shore saste than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard tooi so he brought
them sase into our creek; and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to setch the other canoe. As he passed me,
I spoke to him, and asked him, whither he went. He
told me—' Go, setch more boat.* So away he went
like the wind, sor sure never man or horse ran like him;
and he had the other canoe in the creek, almost as soou
as I got to it by land, so he wasted me over, and then
went to help our new guests out os the boat, which he
did i but they were neither os them able to walk; so
that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this I set about considering what method
I could take to get these poor creatures to our ha-
bitation; at length a project came into my head, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me, I soon made a kind os hand-barrow to
lay them on; and Friday and I carried them both to-
gether upon it between us i but when we got them to
the outside os our wall or sortisication, we were at a
greater
greater loss than besore; sor it was impossible to get
them over; and I was resolved not to break it down i
so I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about two
hours time, made a very handsome tent, covered with
old sails, and, above that, with boughs os trees; being
in the Ipace without our outward sence, and between
that and the grove osyoung wcod which I had planted i
and here we made two beds, os such things as I had,
viz. os good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it, to
lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought mysels
very rich in subjects; and it was a diverting reslection
which I srequently enjoyed how like a king I looked.
First os all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty; so that I had an undoubted right os dominion:
secondly, my people were persectly subjected; I was
absolute lord and law-giver; they all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, is there
had been occasion sor it, sor mei it was remarkable
too, I had but three subjects, and they were os three
disserent religions; my man Friday was a Protestant,
his sather a Pagan, and a canibal, and the Spaniard a
Papist. However, I allowed liberty os conscience
throughout my dominionsi but this by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them,
I began to think os making some provision sor themi
and the sirst thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a
yearly goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out os my par-
ticular slock, to be killedi then I cut oss the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into smaller pieces, I set Fri-
day to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a
very good dish, I assure you, os slesh and broth, having
put some barley and rice also into the broth; and as I
cooked it without doors (sor I made no sire within my
inner wall) sol carried it all into the new tent; and
having placed a table there sor them,-I sat down and
eat my dinner also with them; and, as well as I could
cheared them and encouraged them, Friday being my
interpreter,
interpreter, especially to his sather, and indeed to the
Spaniard too; sor the Spaniard spoke the language os the
savages pretty well.
Aster we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one os the canoes, and go and setch our
muskets, and other sire arms, which sor want os time,
we had lest upon the place os battle; and the next day
I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies os the
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently
be ossensive; I alto ordered him to bury the horrid re-
mains os their barbarous seast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think os doing
mysels; nay, I could not bear to see them, is I went
that way. All this he punctually persormed, and de-
saced the very appearance os the savages being there,
so that when I went again, I could scarce know where
it was, otherwise than by the corner os the wood point-
ing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; a»d sirst, I set Friday to enquire
os his sather, what he thought os the escape os the sa-
vages in that canoe, and whether he might expect a re-
turn os them, with a power too great sor us to resist.
His sirst opinion was, that the savages in the boat ne-
ver could live out the storm, which blew that night
they went oss, but must os necessity be drowned, or
driven south to those shores, where they were as sure
to be devoured, as they were to be drowned is they
were cast awayi but as to what they would do is they
came sase on shore, he said he knew not; but it was
his opinion, that they were so dreadsully srighted with
the manner os being attacked, the noise, and the sire,
that he believed they would tell their people, they were
all killed by thunder and lightning, and not by the
hand os man; and that the two which appeared (viz.
Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or suries, come
down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all
cry out so in their language to one another; for it waS
impossible
impossible sor them to conceive that a man mould darf,
sire and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without
listing up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right; sor, as I understood since, by
other hands, the savages os that part never attempted
to go over to the island asterwards. They were so ter-
risied with the accounts given by those sour men (sor it
seems they did escape the sea) that they believed, who-
ever went to that enchanted island, would be destroyed
with sire srom the gods.
This however, I knew not, and theresore was under
continual apprehensions sor some time, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, I and all my army; sor as we
were sour os us, I would have ventured upon an hun-
dred os them sairly in the open sield at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing
the scar os their coming wore off, and I began to take
my sormer thoughts os a voyage to the main into consi-
deration; being likewise assured by Friday's sather,
that I might depend upon good usage srom their na-
tion on his account, is I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood, that there were sixteen more os his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace
indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to it
sor necessaries, and indeed sor lisei I asked him all the
particulars os their voyage, and sound they were a Spa-
nish ship, bound srom the Rio de la Plata to the Ha-
vannah, being directed to leave their loading there,
which was chiesly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with; that they
had sive Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took
out os another wreck; that sive os their own men were
drowned when sirst the ship was lost; and that these es-
caped through insinite dangers and hazards, and arrived
almost starved, on the canibal coast, where they expected
to have been devoured every moment.
He
He told ir.s, they had some arms with them, but they
were persectly useless, for that they had neither powder
or ball, the waming os the sea having spoiled all their
powder, except a little which they used at their sirst
landing;, to provide themselves some sood.
I asked him what he thought would become os them
there; and is they had sormed no design os making any
escape. He said, they had many consultations abcvit
it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build
one, or provisions os any kind, their counsels always
ended in tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal srom me, which might tend towards an escape,
and whether, is they were all here, it might net be done.
I told him with sreedom, I seared mostly their trea-
chery and ill usage os me, is I put my lise in their
hands; sor that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the
nature os man; nor did men always square their deal-
ings by the obligations they had received, so much as
they did by the advantages they expected i I told him
it would be very hard that I should be the instrument os
their deliverance, and that they should asterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrisice, what necessity, or
what accident soever, brought him thither; and that I
had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be de-
voured alive, than sall into the merciless claws os the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added,
that otherwise I was persuaded, is they were all here,
we might, with so many hands, biuld a bark large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils south-
ward, or to the islands or Spanish coast northward; but
that is, in requital, they should, when I had put wea-
pons in their hands, carry me by sorce among their own
people, I might be ill used sor my kindness to them,
and my situation become much worse than it was
besore.
He answered with a great deal os candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
Vol. II. 29 F were
were so sensible os it, that he believed they would ab-
hor the thought os using any man unkindly that mould
contribute to their deliverance; and that, is I pleased,
he would go to them with the old man, and discourse
, with them about it, and would return again, and bring
me their answer; that he would make conditions with
them upon their solemn oath, that they would be abso-
lutely under my leading, as their commander and cap-
tain; and that they should swear upon the Holy Sacra-
ments and Gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such
Christian country as I mould agree to, and no other;
art! to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders,
till they were landed sasely in iiich country as I intended,
and that he would bring a contract srom them under
their hands sor that purpose.
He then said, he would sirst swear to me himsels, that
he would never stir srom me as long as he lived, till I
gave him orders; and that he would desend me to the
last drop os blood, is there mould happen the least breach
os saith among his countrymen.
He told me, they were all very civil honest men, and
under the greatest distress imaginable,having neither wea-
pons nor cloaths, nor any sood, but at the mercy and dis-
cretion os the savages; out os all hopes os ever returning
to their own country; and that he was sure, is I would
undertake their relies, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, is possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he had'
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
sels started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other,
that I could not but be very well satissied with it; and,
bv his advice, put off the deliverance os his comrades
sor at least hals a year. The case was thus—
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had pro-
vided, with the assistance os Providence, sor my sup-
port; and he saw evidently what stock os cern and rice
1
I had laid up; which, as it was more than sussicient
sor mysels, so it was not sussicient at least, without good
husbandry, sor my samily, now it was increased to touri
but mucli less would it be sussicient, is'his countrymen,who
were, as he said, sourteen still alive, should come over;
nor could there be sussicient to victual our vessel, is we
should build one, sor a voyage to any os the Christian
colonies os America. So he told me, he thought it
would be more adviseable, to let him and the other two
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could
spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another har-
vest, that we might have a supply os corn sor his coun-
trymen when they should comei sor want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out os one dissiculty into
another. You know, (says he,) the children os Israel,
'though they rejoiced at sirst at their being delivered
'out os Egypt, yet rebelled even against God himsels,
'that delivered them, when they came to want bread in
* the wilderness.'
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as I was satissied with his sidelity. So
we commenced digging, all sour os us, as well as the
wooden tools we were surnished with permitted; and in
about a month's time, by the end os which it was seed
time, we had gotten as much land prepared ar.d trim-
med up as we sowed twenty-two bushels os barley on,
and sixteen jars os rice; which was, in short, all the
seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves
barley sussicient sor our own sood sor the six months
that we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckon-
ing srom the time we set our seed aside sor sowing; sor
it is* not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in
that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sussicient to put us put os sear os the savages, is they
had come, unless their number had been very great, we
went sreely all over the island, wherever we sound oc-
fi calion;
casion; and as here we had our escape or deliverance
upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least sor me,
to have the means os it out os minei to this purpose, I
marked out several trees, which I thought sit sor our
work, and I set Friday and his sather to cutting them.
down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I im-
parted my thoughts on that assair, to oversee and direct
tJieir work. I shewed them with what indesatigable
pains I hast hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about a
dozen large planks os good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-sive feet long, and srom two inches to sour inches
thicki what prodigious labour it took up any one may
imagine.
At the same time I contrived to increase my little
slock os tame goats as .much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday anil the Spaniard gc cut one day
and mysels, with Friday, the next day; sor we took
our turnsi and by tins means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the resti tor whenever we
shot the dam, we iaved the kids, and added them to our
slock. But above all, the leason tor curing the grapes
commg on, I cauied such a prcdig ous qua'i'.ity to be
hung up in the iun, that I believe, had we been at Ali-
cant, where the ra sins ot the iun are cured, we should
have siiled sixty or eighty barrcls; and theie, with our
bread, was a great part os our sood, and very good
living too, I assure you; sor it is an exceeding nou-
rish ng iOod.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it
was not die most plentisul increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;
sor, srom twenty-two bushels ot barley, we brought in
and threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels,
and the like in proportion os the rice; which was store
enough sor our sood to the nexr harvest, though all the
sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, is we
had been ready sor a voyage, it would very plenti-
fully have victualled our ship, to have carried us
to
to any part of the world; that is to fay, os Ame-
rica. When we had thus houfed and secured our
magazine of corn we fell to work to make more wicker .
work; viz. great baskets, in which we kept it; and
the Spaniard was very handy and dextrous at this part,
and often blamed me, that I did not make some things
for defence, of this kind of work; but I faw no need
of it. And now having a full fupply of food for all the
guests expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to
the main, to fee what he could do with thole he left be-
hind him therei I gave him a strict charge in writing,
not to bring any man with him who would not sirst
fwear, in the prefence of himfelf and of the old favage,
that he would no way injure, sight with, or attack, the
perfon he should sind in the island, who was fo kind to
fend for them in order to their deliverance; but that
they would stand by and defend him. against all fuch at-
tempts; and wherever they went, would be entirely
under, and fubjected to his commandi and that
this should be put in writing, and figned with their
hands. How we were to have this done, when I knew
they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was a question
which we never afked.
Under thefe instructions, the Spaniard and the old fa-
vage (the father of Friday) went away in one of the ca-
noes, which they might be laid to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prifoners, to be
devoured by the favages.
I gave each of them a musket with a sirelock on it,^
and about eight charges os powder and ball; charging
them to be very good hufbands of both, and not to ufe
either of them but upon urgent occafions.
This was a cheersul work, being the sirst meafures
ufed by me in view of my deliverance for now. twenty-
feven years and some days. I gave them provisions of
bread, and of dried grapes, fufficient for themfelves for
many days, and fufficient for their countrymen for
about eight days time; and wifhing them a good voy-
age I let them go, agreeing with them about a signal
F 3 they
they should hang out at their return, by which I should
know them again when they came back, at a distance!
besore they came on more.
They went away with a sair gn'.e, on the day that
the moon was at the sull; by my account, in the month
os October; but as to the exact reckoning os days, as-
ter I had once lost it, I could never recover it sgain;
nor had I kept even the number ot years fb punctually
as to be sure that I was right; though, as it proved,
when I asterwards examined my account, I sound I had
kept a true reckoning os years.
It was no less than eight days I waited sor them, when
a strange and unsoreseen accident intei venec", os which.
the like has r.ot, perhaps, been heard os in history. I
was sast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud—
* Master! master! they are come, they are come'.'
I jumped up, and, regardless os danger, went out,
as soon as I could get my cloaths on, through my
Jit tie grove, which, by the way, was by this time
grown to be a very thick woodi I say, regardless os
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my
custom to do; but I was surprised, when turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league
aud a hals distance, standing in sor the shore, with a
shoulder-os-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty sair to bring them ini also I observed
presently, that they did not come srom that side which,
the shore lay on, but srom the southermost end os the
island; upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie
close, scr these were not the people we locked sor, and
that we did not know yet whether they were sriends or
enemies.
In the next place, I went in to setch my perspective,
glass, to see what I could make os them; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top os the hils,
as I used to do when I was apprehensive os any thing,.
and to take my view the plainer without being dis-
covered.
I
I had sc-irce set my soot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a halt distance srom me, S. S. E. but
not above a league and an hals srom the shore. Bv my
observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boar.
I cannot express the consusion I was in, though the
joy os seeing a ship, and one whom I had reason to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-
quentlv triends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet
I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
srom whence they came, bidding me to keep upon my
guard. In the sirst place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could have in that part
ot the seas, since it was not the way to or srom any
pnrt os the world where the English had any trassick;
and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there, as in distress; and that is they were Englhh really,
it was most probable, that they were here upon no good
design; and that I had better continue as I was, than
fall into the hands os thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices os
danger, which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility os its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I believe sew that
have made any observations os things can deny; that
there are certain discoveries os an invisible world, and a
converse os spirits, we cannot doubt; and is the tenden-
cy os them seems to be to warn us os dancer, why should
we not supposetiiey are srom some sriendly agent (whe-
ther Supreme, or inserior and subordinate, is not the
question) and that they are given sor our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice os thls reasonmg; sor had I not been made cau-
tious by this secret admonition, come it srom whence
it would, I had bet!n undone inevitably, and in a sar
worse condition than besore.
I had not kept mysels ion°- in this posture, when I saw
tUe boat draw asar the shore, ai is they looked sor a
creek
creek to thrust in at sor the convenience os landing;
however, as they did not come quite sar enough, they did
not see the little inlet where I sormerly landed my rasts,
but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about hals
a mile srom me, which was a happy circumstance; sor
otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, at
my door, and would have soon beaten me out os my cas-
tle, and perhaps have phmdured me os all I had.
When they were on shore, I was sully satissied they
were Englishmen; at least most os them i one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were
in all eleven men, whereos three os them I sound were
unarmed, and (as I thought) bound i and when the sirst
sour or sive os them were jumped on shore, they took
those three out os the boat as prisoners. One os the
three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures
os intreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind os
extravagance; the other two I could perceive listed up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed,
but not to inch a degree as the sirst. x
I was persectly consounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning os it could be. Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could—' O master!
'you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savag*
'mans.'—-' Why (said I) Friday, do you think they are
• going to eat them then ?'—' Yes (says Friday) they
• will eat them.'—' No, no (said I) Friday, I am asraid
• they will murder them, indeed; but you may be lure
'they will not eat them.'
All this while I had no thought os what the matter
reallv was, but stood trembling with horror at thesight,
expecting every moment when the three prisoners sliould
be killed; nay, once I saw one os the villains listed up
his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one os the poor men; and I expected
to see him sall every moment, at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now sor our Spaniard, and the sa-
rage that was gone with him; or that I had any way
to have come undiscovered within soot os them, that I
might have rescued the three men; sor I saw no sire-
arms they had among themi bus it sell out to my mind
another wav.
Aster I had observed the outrageous usage os the
three men by the insolent stamen, I observed the sellows
run scattering about the land, as is they wanted to see
the countryi I observed also, that the three other men
had liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat down
all three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like
men in despair.
This put me in mind os the sirst time when I
came on shore, and began to look about me; how I
gave mysels over sor lost, how wildly I looked round
me, what dreadsul apprehensions I had, and how I
lodged in the tree all night, sor sear os being devoured
by wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night os the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving os the ship nearer the
land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been
so long nourished and supported; so these three poor de-
solate nun knew nothing how certain os deliverance and
supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
esscctually and really they were in a condition os sasety,
at the time they thought themselves lost, and their case
desperate.
So little do we see besore us in the world, and so much
reason have we to depend cheartully upon the Great
Maker ot the world, that he does not leave his crea-
tures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst cir-
cumstances they have always something to be thanksul
sor, and sometunes are nearer their deliverance than
they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliver-
ance by the very means by which they seem to be brought
to their destruction.
It was just at the time os high-water when the peo-
ple came on more, and while partly they stood parley-
ing with the prisoners they brought, and partly while
they rambled about to see what kind os plate they were
W
in, they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and
the water had ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground.
They had lest two men in the boat, who, as I sound
asterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, scll
asleep; however, one os them waking sooner than the
other, and sinding the boat too sast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed sor the rest who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the more on that side being a sost oozy sand
almost like a quick-sand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per-
haps, the least os all mankind given to sore-thought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one os them say aloud to
another, (calling them oss srom the boat,) 'Why, let
* her alone Jack, can't ye? she'll sloat next tide.* By
which I was sully consirmed in the main enquiry, os
what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept mysels close, not once daring to
stir out os my castle, any sarther than to my place os
observation, near the top os the hill; and very glad I
was, to think how well it was sortisied. I knew it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could b« on
sloat again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might be more at liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, is they had any.
In the mean time I prepared inysels sor a battle, as
besore, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind os enemy than I had at sirst. I
ordered Friday al so, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himsels with arms. I
took mysels two sowling-pieces, and I gave him three
musquets. My sigure, indeed, was very sierce; I had
my sormidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
mentioned, a naked Iword, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said besore, not to have made
any
iny attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat os the day, I sound that they were all
gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were
all kid down to steep. The three poor distressed men,
too anxious sor their condition to get any steep, were
huwever set down under the shelter os a great tree, at
about a quarter os a mile srom me, and, as I thought,
out os sight os any os the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover mysels to them, and
laarn something os their condition. Immediately, I
marched in the sigure above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as sormidable sor his arms as I,
but not making quite so staring a spectre-like sigure as
I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, besore any os them saw me, I called aloud to them
in Spanish—' What are ye, gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
consounded when they saw me, and the uncouth sigure
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to sly srom me,
when I spoke to them in English. 'Gentlemen,' (said
I) 'do not be surprized at me; perhaps you may have
'a sriend near you, when you did not expect it.'—' He
* must be sent directly srom Heaven then,' said one os
them very gravely to me, and pulling oss his hat at the
same time; 'sor our condition is past the help os man.'
* All help is srom Heaven, Sir, (iaid Ii) but can you
* put a stranger in the way how to help you? sor you
* item to me to be in some great distress i I saw you
'when you landed; and when you seemed to make ap-
* plication to the brutes that came with you, I saw one
* ot them list up his sword to kill you.*
The poor man, with tears running down his sace, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned—' Ara
* I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an
* angel ?'—' Be in no scar about that, Sir, (said I,) is
'Gcd had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have
'cemt better cloathed, and armed aster another man-
* nes
* ner than you see me. Pray lay aside your searsi I
1 ama man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you,
'you see; I have one servant only; we have arms and
* ammunition; fell us sreely, can we serve you? What
* is your case?
'Our case, (said he) Sir, is too long to tell you,
* while our murderers are so near; but in short, Sir, I
* was commander os that ship, my men having muti-
* nied against me, they have been hardly prevailed on
* not to murder me; and at last have set me on shore
« in this desolate place, with these two men with me,
* one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expect
'to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
« know not yet what to think os it.
'Where are those brutes, your enemies? (said I,)
'do you know where they are gone ?'—' There they
'are, Sir, (said he, pointing to a thicket os trees ;)
'my heart trembles sor sear they have seen us, and heard
* you speak ;i is. they have, they will certainly mnrder
'us all.'
'Hive they any sire arms? (said I.) He answered
they had only two pieces, and one which they lest in
the boat. 'Well then, (said I) leave the rest to-me.
'I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill
'them all; but shall .we rather take them prisoners?'
He told me there were two desperate villains among
them, that it was farce sase to shew anymercy to; but
is they weie secured, he believed all the rest would re-
turn to their diry. I aIked him which they were? He
told me he could not at that distance descr.be them ; but
he would obev my orders in any thing I would direct.
'Well (laid I) let us retreat out os their vieworhear-
'ing lest they„awake, and we will resolve sarther.' So
they willmglv went back with me, till the woods co-
ves.' us srom them.
'Look you, Sir, (said I) is I venture upon yourde-
* liver.uice, are you willing to make two conditions.
'with iiH.?' He anticipated my proposals, by telling
nic, that bolh he and the ship, is recovered, mould be
wholly
wholly directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and it the ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what part os the world loever I would send
him; and the other two men said the same.
• Well, (iaid I) my conditions are but twoi First,
'That while you stay on this island with me, you will
« not pretend to any authority here; and is I put arms
* into your hands, you will upon all occasions g,ve them
* up tome, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon
« this island, and in the mean time be governed by my
'orders.
'Secondly, That is the ship is or may be recovered,
* you will carry me and my man to England passage
« sree.*
He gave all the assurance that the invention and saith
os a man could devise, that he would comply with these
most reasonable demands, and besides would owe his lise
to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as
he lived.
'Well then (said I) here are three muskets sor you
* with powder and balli tell me next what you think
-* is proper to be done?' He shewed all the testimony
os his gratitude that he was able; but offered to be
wholly guided by me. I told him, I thought it was
hard venturing any thing, but the best method I could
think os, was to sire upon them at once, as they lay;
and is any were not killed at the sirst volley, and ossered
to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon God's providence to direct the soot.
He said, veiy modestly, that he was loth to kill them,
is he could help it; but that, those two were incorrigi-
ble villains, and had been the authors os all the mutiny
in the ship; and is they escaped, we mould be undone
still, sor they would go on board, and bring the whole
ship's company, aud destroy us all. 'Well, then (said
I) necessity legitimates my advice; sor it is theonly way
'to save our lives.' However, seeing him stul cauti-
ous os shedding blood, I told hun, they should go them-
selves, and manage as they sound convenient.
Vol. II. 29 G In
In the middle os this discourse we heard some os them
swake, and soon aster we saw two os them on their seet:
I asked him, is either os them were the men, who he tad
said were the heads os the mutiny. He said, ' No.'—
'Well then,' laid I, ' you may lei them escape, and
'Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose
'to save themselves i now, is the rest escape you, it is
'your sault."
Animated with this, he took the musleet I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each man a piece in his handi the
two men who were with him going sirst, made some
noise, at which one os the seamen who was awake, turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest:
but it was too late then; sor the moment he cried out,
they sired; I mean the two men, tlie captain wisely re-
serving his own piece. They had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew, that one os them was killed
'on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but nut
being dead, he started up upon his seet, and called eagerly
sor help to the other; but the captain stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help; he should call
upon God to sorgive his villainy; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock os his musket, so that
he never spoke mure; there were three more in the
«c7]ipany, and one os them was also slightly wounded.
By this time I was come; and when they saw their,
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged sor
mercyi the captain told them he would spare their
lives, is they would give him any assurance os theiiab-
hoiTcr.cc os the treachery they had been guilty os, and
would swear to be saithsul to him in recovering the siiip,
and asterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, srom
whence they came. They gave him all the protesta-
tions os their sincerity that could be desired, and he was
willing to believe them and spare their lives i which I
was not against; only I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and soot while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday and the captain's'
mate
I»i3te to tlie boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the cars and sail, which they did; and, by and by,
three straggling men, that were, (happily sor them)
parted srom the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
sired; and seeing their captain, who besore was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound also, by which means our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should enquire
into one another's circumstancesi I began sirst, and
told him my whole history; which he heard with an
attention even to amazement; and particularly at the
wondersul manner os my being surnished with provisions
and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
Collection os wonders, it affected him deeply; but when
lie reslected srom thence upon himsels, and how I seemed
to have been preserved thereon purpose to save his lise,
the tears ran down his sace, and he could not speak a
word more.
Aster this communication was at an end, I conducted
him, and his two men, into my aparlment, leading them
in just where I came out, viz. at the top os the house;
where I resreshed them with such provisions as" I had,
and shewed them all the contrivances I had made, dur-
ing my long inhabiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was persectly-
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my sor-
tisication; and how persectly I had concealed my re-
treat with a grove ot trees, which, having now been
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much
taster than in England, was become a little wood, and
ib thick, that it was unpayable in any part os it, but at
that one side, where I had reserved my little winding
paslr.ge into iti this I told him was my castle, and my
residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as most
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and
I would shew him that too another time; but at pre-
sent our business was to consider, how to recover the
(hipi he agreed with me as to that; but told me, he
was persectly at a loss what measures to take; sor that
G 1 Uier«
there were still fix-a.id twenty hands on board, whn
having entered into a curtUl confpiracy, by which they
huJ all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hard-
ened in it now by defperation; and would carry it on,
knowing that if they were reduced, they mould be
brought to the gillows as foon as they came to
England, or to any of the English colonies; and that
therefore there would be no attacking them with ib fmall
a number as we weie.
I mufed for fome time upon what he had faid, and
found it was a very rational conclufion, and that there-
sore ibmething was to be refolved on very fpeedily, as
well to draw the men on board into lome fnare for their
furprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
stroying usi upon this it prefently occurred to me, that
in a little wmile, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat to lee for them;
and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and
be too strong lor us. This, he allowed, was rational.
Upon this I told him the sirst thing we had to do was
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, fo that
they might not carry her osf; and, taking every thing
out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be sit to
fwim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left out of her, and whatever elfe we found
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few bifcuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great
lump of fugar in a piece of canvas i (the lugar was sive
or six pounds) all which was very welcome to me, efpe-
cially the brandy and fugar, of which I had none left for
many years.
When we had carried all thefe things on shore, (the
oars, mast, rail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
away before) we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet
f hey could not carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts, that we
fouid be capable of recovering the ship; but my view
was
Xvrts, that is they went away without the boat, I diet not
much question to make her sit again to cany us to the
leeward Islands, and call upon our sriends the Spaniards
in my way4, sor I h;ul them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
sirst by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the
beach, so high, that the tide would not sloat her off at
high-water-mark; and, besides, had broken a hole in
her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped, and were
sat down musing what we should do, we heard the ship
sire a gun, and saw her make a wast with her ancient,
as a signal sor the boat to come on beard; but no beat
stirred; and they sired several times, making other sig-
nals sor the boat.
At last, when all their signals and !irings proved sruit-
less, and thev sound the beat did not stir, we saw them,
(by the help os our glasses) heist another boat out,'and
row towards the shore ; and we sound, as they approach-
ed, that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had sire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almcst two leagues srom the shore,
v?e had a suls view os them as they came, and a plain
sight os the men, even os their saces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east os the other boat, they
rewed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the others had landed, and where the boat lay.
J5y this means, I say, we had a full view os them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters os all the
men in the boat; os whom, he said, there were three
verv honest sellows, who he was sure were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and
srighted.
But that sor the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chies ossicer among them, and all the rest, they were
as outrageous as any os the ship's crew; and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprize i and ter-
ribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too power-
sul tor us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
Q 1 cumsiances
cumstances were past the operations os sear i that seems;
almost every condition that could be was better than
that we were suppi.sed to be in, we ought to expect that
the consequence, whether death or lise, would be sure
to be a deliverance. I asleed him, what he thought os
the circumstances os my lise; and whether a deliveran "e
was not worth venturing sor. 'And where, Sir,'
said I, ' is your belies os my being preserved here on
'purpose to save your lise, which elevated you a little
• while ai'0? For my part, there seems to be but one
'thingamiss mall the prospect os it.'—' What's that,*
said he. 'Why,' said I, ' 'tis that, as you say there
'are three or tour honest sellows among them, which
i should be sparedi had they been all os the wicked
'part os the crew, I should have thought God's pro-
« vidence had singled them out to deliver them into your
* Uands; sor depend upon it, every man os them that
'conies a- shore, are our own, and mall die or live as they
f behave to us.*
As I lpoke this with a raised voice, and chearsul
countenance, I sound it greatly encouraged him; so we
set vigorously to our business. We.had, upon the sirst
appearance os the boat's coming srom the ship, consi-
dered os separating our prisoners, and had, indeed, se-
cured them effectually.
Two or them, oi whom the captain was less asihred
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one os the three
(deiivered men) to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out os danger os being heard ordiseovered,
or 01 si 'ding their way out ot the woods, is they could
have del.vcied themselves. Here they lest them bound,
but '4'..ve them provisions, *nd promised them, is they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that is they attempted their escape,
they shculo be put to death without mercy. They pro-
;niitd iaithiully to bear their consinement with patience,
and were very thanksul, that they had inch good usage
as to have provisions and a light lest them; sor Friday
gave thew candles (sueb. as we made ourselves)
for their comsort; and they did not know but that he
stood cc-ntinel over them at the entrance.
The ether prisoners had better usage i two os them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not
sree to trust them; but the other two were 'taken into
my service, upon their captain's recommendation, and
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us;
so with them, and the three honest men, we were seven
men well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said there were three or sour
honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lav, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up aster them, which I was
glad to ice; ior I was asraid they would rather have lest
the boat at an anchor, some distance srom the shore, with
some hands in her to guard her; and so we should not
be abb to sieze the boat.
Being on shore, they all immediately ran to the other
boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great
surprize, to sind her stripped, as above, os all that was in
her; and a great hole in her bottom.
Aster they had muled some time on this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might,
to try is they could make their companions heari but
all was to' no purpose; they then placed themselves all
close in a ring, and sired a volley os their small arms,
v-hich indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring; but it was all one i those in the cave, we were
sore could not hear; and those in our keeping, though
they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to
them.
They were so astonished at the surprize os this, that,
as they told us asterwaros, they resolved to go al,l on board
again to their ship, and let the rest know that the men.
were ail murdered, and 'he long-boat staved; accord-
ingly, they immediately launched the boat agam, and,
rot all os them on board.
The
The captain was terribly amazed and even consounded
at this, believing they would goon board the strip again,
and set sail, giving their comrades tor lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we
should have recovered i but he was quickly as mucli
srighted the other way.
They had not been long put oss with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but with,
this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they
consulted together upon; viz. to leave three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look sor their companions,
This was a great disappointment to us; sor now we
were at a lots what to doi sor our seizing thole seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us, is we let
the boat escape, because they would then row away to
the ship, and ihe rest os them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be
lost.
However, we had ho remedy but to wait and see
what the issue os things might presenti the seven men
came on shore and the three who remained in the
boat, put her off to a good distance srom the shore, and
came to an anchor to wait sor them; so that it was
impossible sor us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, march-
ing towards the top os the little hill, under which my
habitation lay; and we could lee them plainly, though
they could not perceive us i we could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have sired at them; or that they would have
gone sarther off, that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow os the hill,
where they could see a great way in the valley and
woods which lay towards the north-east part, and where
the istand lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they
were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture sar
srom the shore, nor sar srom one another, they iitt down
together underatree, to consideros iti had they thought
fit
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party os
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too sull os apprehensions os danger to venture to go
to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was
they had to sear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
tiiis consultation os theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
all sire a volley again, to endeavour to make their scl-
lows hear, and that we ihould all sally upon them just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they would certainly yield, and we mould have them
without bloodshed; I liked the proposal, provided it
was done while we were near enough to come up to
them, besore they could load their pieces again.
But tins event did not happen, and we lay still along
time, very irresolute what course to take; at length I
told them there would be nothing to be done, in my opi-
nion till night; and then, is they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might sind a way to get between them
and the shcre, and so might use some stratagem with
those in the boat to quit her.
We waited a great while, though very impatient, sor
their removing, and were very uneasy; when, aster long
consultations, we saw them all start up and march down
towards the sea. It seems, they had such dreadful ap-
prehensions upon them os the danger os the place, that
they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their
companions over sor lost, and so go on with their in-
tended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be as it really was; that they had given
over their search, and were sor going back againi and
the captain, as loon as I tokl him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions os it; but I presently
thought os a stratagem to setch them back agaia, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
Ravages came on siiore when Friday was rescued; aud
as
as Soon as they came to a little rhing ground, at about
hals a mile distance, I bad them halloo as loud as they
could, and wait till they sound the seamen heard them;
that as Coon as ever they heard the seamen answer them
they should return it again, and then keeping out os
sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as sar into the island, and among
the woods, as possible; and then wheel about again to
me, by iuch ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, ani
answering,.ran along the more westward, towards the
Voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where the water being up, they could not'get
over, and called sor the boat to come up, and set them
over, as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and
as it were in a harbour within the land, they took one
ot the three men out os her to go along with them, and
kit only two in the boat, having sastened her to the
stump os a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished sor; and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I
took the re;r with me, and crossing the creek out os their
sight, we surprised the two men besore they were aware,
one os them lying on more, and the other being in the
boat; the fellow on shore was between sleeping aud
waking, and going to start tip, the captam who wa*
soremost, ran in upon him, and knocked hun down, and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to make a single
man yield, when he saw sive men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems,
oie os the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny
as the reft os the crew, and theresore was easiiy per-
suaded, not only to yield, but asterwards to join very
sincercly with m.
In the mean time, Friday and the.captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, srom one hill to
another, and srom one wood to another, till they not
only heartily tired them, but lest them where they were
very sore they could not reach back to the boat besore
it was dark; and indeed they were heartily tired them .
stives also by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch sor them in
the dark, and so to sall upon them, to make sore
work with them.
It was several hours aster Friday came back to me,
besore they came back to their boat; and we could hear
the soremost os them, long besore they came quite up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they
were, and not being able to come any saster, which was
very welcome news to us.
At length they, came up to the boat; but it is im-
possible to expreis their consusion, when they sound the
boat sast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and
their two men gone; we cculd hear them call to each
other in a most lamentable mancer, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island ; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they soould all be mur7
dered; or else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured.
They haliooed again, and called their two comrades
by tlrso- names a great many times, but no answer.
Aster some time, we could see them, by the little light
there whs, run about, wringing their hands, like men in
despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down
in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore and
walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men woidd sain have had me given them leave to
sall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill
p.s sew os them as I could; and especially I was unwil-
ling to hazard the killing any os our men, knowing thq
other
other were very well armedi I resolved to wait to see is
they did not separate; and theresore, to make sure os
them, I drew my ambul'cacie nearer; and ordered Fri-
day and the captain to creep upon their hands and
scet, as close to the ground as they could, t at they
might not be discovered, and get as near them as they
could potsibly, besore they osscred to sire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader ot the mu-
tiny, and ha I now shewn himscls the most dejected and
dispirited os all the rest, came walking towards them
with two more os their crew; the captain was so eager,
at having the principal rogue so much in his power, that
he could hardly have patience so let him come so near as
to be sure os hun i sor they only heard his tongue be-
sore i but when they came nearer, the captain and Fri-
day, starting upon their seet, let slyatthem.
The boatswain was killed upon tiie spot; the next
man was shot in the body, and scll just_ by him, though
he did not die till an hour or two aster, and the third ran
sor it.
At the noise os the sire, I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. mysels
generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-general; the cap-
tain and his two men; and the three prisoners ot war,
whom lie had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they
could not see cur number; and I made tlie man they
had lest in the boat, who was now one os us, to call
them by name, to try is I could bring them to a parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms; which sell
out just as \ re desiredi sor indeed it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing
to capitulate i he, theresore, called out as loud as he
could, to one os them, ' Tom Smith, Tom Smith !*
Tom Smith answered immediately, ' Who's that >
'Robinson?' For it seems he knew his voice. The
other answered, ' Ay, ay ; sor God's sake, Tom Smith,
'throw down your arms, and yield, or you are all dead
* men this moment.' « Who
'Who must we yield to? Where are they?' says
Smith again. 'Here they are,' lays he; ' here is' our
'captain and sifty men with him, have been hunting
'you these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will
'Fry, is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and is you do
'not yitld, you are all lost.'
'Will they give us quarter then?' savs Tom Smith,
'and we will yield.'—' I'11 go and ask, is you promise
« to yield,' says Robinson. So he asked the captain,
and the captam himsels then called out—' You, Smith,
'you know my voice; is you lay down your arms im-
'mediately and submit, you mall have your lives, all
« but Will Atkins.'
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, ' sor Ged's sake,
• captain, give me quarteri What have I done? They
'have been all as bad as I!' which, by the way was
not true neither; sor it seems this Will Atkins was the
sirst man that laid hold os the captain, when they sirst
mutinied, and used him barbarously in tying his hands,
and using the most horrid language. However, the
captain told him that he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which he,
meant me, sor they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great army os sisty men, which, particularly with those
three, were all but eight, came up and sie/.ed upon them
all, and upon their boat, only that I kept mysels and
one more out os sight, sorTeasons os state.
Our next business was to repair the beat, and to think
os seizing the ship; and as sor the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villainy os their practices with him, and at
length upon the sarther wickedness os their design; and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They ail appeared very penitent, and begged hard sor
their lives. As'sor that, he told them they were none
Vol. II. 29. H °*
os his prisoners, but the commander's os the island;
that they thought they had set him en shore in a barren,
uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that the island was inhabited, and that the go-
vernor was an Englishman ; that he might hang them all
there is he pleased ; but as he had given them all quarter,
he supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt
with there, as justice required, except Atkins, whom he
was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare sor
death, sor that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a siction os his own, yet it had
its desired essect. Atkins scll upon his knees to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor sor his lise;
and all the rest begged os him, sor God's sake, that they
might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time os our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these sellows in, to be hearty in getting potses-
sion os the ship; so I retired in the dark srom them, that
they might not see what kind os a governor they had,
and called the captain to me. When I called, as at a
good distance, one os the men was ordered to speak
apain, and say to the captain—" Captain, the com-
"mander calls sor you i" and presently the captain re-
plied—" Tell his excellency I am just coming." This
more persectly amused them; and they all believed, that
the commander was just by with his sisty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my pro-
ject sor seizing the ship, which he liked wondersully
well; and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure os success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, aiid that he should go and take Atkins, and two
more os the worst ot them, and send them pinioned to
the cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on shore with
the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and
•ft
it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in their
condition.
The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, os
which I have given a sull descriptioni and as it was
scnced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them,
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted
or not to go on board and surprize the ship. He talked
to them os the injury done him, os the condition they
were brought to; and that though the governor had
given them quarter sor their lives, as to the present
action, yet that is they were sent to England, they
would all be hanged in chains to be sure; but that
is they would join in such an attempt as to recover the
ship, lie would have the governor's engagement sor
their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they sell
down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with
the deepest imprecations, that they would be saithsul to
him to the hist drop, and that they should owe their lives
to him, and would go with him all over the world;
that they would own him sora sather to them as long as
they lived.
"Well," says the captain, " I must go and tell the
"governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
"him to consent to it." So he brought mean account
os the temper he sound them in; and that he verily be-
lieved they would be saithsul.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should po back again, and chuse out sive os them, and tell
them, that they mould fee that they did not want men;
but he would take out those sive to be his assistants, and
that the governor would keep the other two, and the
three that were sent prisoners to the castle, (my cave)
as hostages, sor the sidelity os those sive i and that is tht y
H z provei
proved unsaithful in the execution, the sive hostages should
be hanged in chains alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the go-
vernor was in earnest ; however, they had no way lest
them but to accept it; and it was now the business os
the prisoners, as much as os the captain, to persuade the
other sive to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered sor the expedition.
I. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the
two prisoners os the sirst gang, to whom, having their
characters srom the captain, I had given their liberty,
and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two, whom
I kept till now in my bower pinioned; but, upon the
captain's motion, had released. 4.. These sive re-
leased at last. So that they were twelve in all, besides
sive we kept prisoners in the cave sor hostages.
I asked the captain is he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; scr, as sor me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper sor us to stir,
having seven men left behind; and it was employment
enough sor us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with victuals.
As to the sive in the cave, I resolved to keep them sast;
but Fridav went twice a-day to them, to supply them
with necessaries; and I made the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.
When I mewed mvsels to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, I was the person, the
governor had ordered to look aster them, and that it was
the governor's pleasure they should nos stir any where
but by my direction; that is they did, they mould be
sctched into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as
we never suffered tnem to see me as governor, so I now
appeared as another person, and spoke os the governor,
the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all oc-
caituns.
The captain now had no dissiculty besore him, but to
surnish his two boats, stop the bread) os one, and man
them.
them. He made his passenger captain os one.wjth sour
other men; and himsels, his mate, and sive more, went
in the other; and they contrived, their business very well;
sor they came up, to the soip about midnight. As soon
as they came within call os the ship, he made Robinson
hail them, and tell them he had brought off the men and
the boat, but that it was a long time besore they had
sound them; and the likei holding them in chat, till
they came to the ship's side; when the captain and the
mate entering sirst with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end
os their musquets, being very saithsully seconded by their
men; they secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter-decks, and began to sasten the hatches, to
keep them down who were below, when the other boat,
and their men, entering at the sore-chains, secured the
sore-castle os the ship, and the skuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men they sound there
prisoners.
When this was done, and al] sase upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate with three men to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay,
and having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and with
two men and aboy, had gotten sire-arms in their hands;
and when the mate with a crow split open the door, the
new captain and his men sired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musquet-ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more os the men, but killed
nobody.
The mate calling sor help, rushed, however, into the
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head, the .bullets en-
tering at his mouth, and came out again behind one os
his ears; so that he never spoke a word; upon which the
rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without
any more lives lost.
As soon as the soip was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be sired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice os his iuccess; winch
,,Hj y°"-
you may be iure I was very glad to hear, having sat
watching upon the shore sor it tisl near two ot' the
clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, Ilaid me down;
and it having been a day ot great satigue to me, I slept
very sound, till I was something surprized with the noise
os a gun; and presently starting u,.-, I heard a man call
me by the name os " Governor! Governor!" and pre-
sently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing up to
the top os the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the
ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear sriend
"and deliverer," says he, " there's your ship, sor she
"is a:! yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her."
I cast my eyes to the ship, and there see rode a little
more than hals a mile os the more; sor they had weighed
her anchor as soon as they were masters os her; and the
weather being sair, had brought her to an anchor just
against the mouth os a little creek; and the tide being
up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near thq
place where I sirst landed my raits, and so landed
just at my door.
I was, at sirst, ready to sink down with the surprize;
sor I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At sirst, sor
some time, I was not able to answer one word; but as
he had taken me in his arms, I held sast by him, or I
mould have sallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprize, and immediately took a,
bottle out os his pocket, and gave me a dram os cordial,
which he had brought on purpose sor me. Aster I had
drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it
brought rr.e to mysels, yet it was a good while besore I
could speak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an extasy
as I, only not under any surprize as I was; and he said
a thousand kind tender things to me, to compose and
bring me to mysels; but such war, the Hood os joy in my
breast, that it put all my spirits into consusioni at last it
3 broke,
brcke into tears, and in a little while aster11 recovered
my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deli-
verer; and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent srom Heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain os won-
ders; that such things as these were the testimonies we
had os a secret hand os Providence governing the world,
and an evidence, that the eyes os an Insinite Power could,
search into the remotest corner os the world, and send help
to the miserable whenever he pleased.
I sorgot not to list up my heart in thanksulness to
Heaven"i and what heart could sorbear to bless Hun,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided sor
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition,
but srom whom every deliverance must always be ac-
knowledged to proceed!
When we had talked some time, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little resreshments, such as the
ship assorded, and such as the wretches, who had beeii
so long his masters, had not plundered him os. Upor
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring
the things ashore that were sor the governor; and indeed
it was a present, as is I had been one, not that was to
be carried along with them, but as is I had been
to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go
without me.
First, he had brought me a cafe os bottles sull os ex-
cellent cordial waters, six large bottles os Madeira wine,
(the bottles held two quarts a-piece ;).two Founds of
excellent tobacco, twelve good pieces os the (hip's bees,
and six pieces os pork with a bag os peas, and about an
hundred weight os biscuit.
He brought me also a box os sugar, a box os slour,
a bag sull os lemons, and two bottles os _ lime-juice; and
abundance os other things; but besides' these, and what
was a thousand times more usesul to me, he brought me
six clean new shii ts, six very good neckcloth*, two pair ot
gloves, one pair os shoes, a hat, ttid one pair ot stock-
ings, and a very good suit os cloatlies os his own, whi^Is
had been worn but very lktle; in a word, hi cloathed
me srom head to soot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as anyone
may imagine, to, one in my circumstances; but never
was any thing in the world os that kind so unpleasant,
aukward, and uneasy, as it was to meto wear such cloaths
at their sirst putting on.
Aster these ceremonies were past, and aster all these
good things were brought into my little apartment, we
began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; sor it was worth considering whether we might
Venture to take them away with us or no, especially two
os them, whom we knew to be incorrigible jnd resrac-
tory to the last degree; and the captain said, he knew
they were such 1 ogues, that there was no obligiiig them;
and is he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malesactors, to be delivered over to justice at the sirst
English colony he could come at. And I sound that
the captain himsels was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that is he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke us, to make it
their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. "I ihou'kl be very glad os that," says the cap-
tain, "with all my heart,*'
"Well," said I, "I will send sor them, and talk
"with them sor you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, sor they were now discharged, their com-
rades having persormed their prorr.iie; I say, I caused
'them so go to the cave, and bring up the sive men, pini-
oned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there
till I came.
Aster some tim;, I went thither dreiTcd in my new ha-
bit; and now I was called governor agiin. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought besore me, when I told them I had had a sull ac-
count os their villainous behaviour to the captain, and
how they had run away with the ship, and were prepar-
ing to commit sarther robberies; but that Providence
i hU
had suffered them *to be ensnared in their own way, and*
that they were sallen into the pit which they haddigged
sor others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might
see bye and bye, that their new captain had receivsd the
reward os his villainy, sor that they might see him
hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I mould not execute them as pirates taken in
the sact,, as by my commission they could not doubt I
had authority to do.
One os them answered in the name os the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them, I knev»
not what mercy to Ihew them; sor, as sor mysels, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go sor England i and
as for the captain, he could not cany them to England,
other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried sor mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence os
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows; ib
that I could not tell which was best sor them, unless
they had a mind to take their sate in the island; is they
desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave iti
I had some inclination to give them their lives, it they
thought they could shist on shore. They seemed very
thanksul sor it; said they would much rather venture
to stay there, than to be carried to England to be
hanged; so I lest them on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some dissicultv
os.it, as is he durst not leave them therei upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him,
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seemg I
had offered so much savour, I would be as good as my
word; and that is he did not think sit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty as I sound them; and is he
did not like that, he might take them again, is he could
eatch them."' Vpoa
Upon this they appeared veiy thanksul, and I accord-
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some sire-arms, some ammunition, nn.1 Come direc-
tions how they mould live very well, it they thought sit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the soip; but
told the captain, that I would stay that night to pre-
pare my things, and desired him to go on board in the
mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and lend the
boat on soore the next day tor me; ordering him in the
mean time to cause the new captain who was killed,
to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might
sce him.
When the captain was gone, 1 sent sor the men up to
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with
them os their circumstancesi I told them, I thought
they had made a right choice; that is the captain car-
ried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
shewed them their captain hanging at the yard-arm
os the ship, and told them they had nothing less to
expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story os my
living there, and put them into the way os making it
easy to them; accordingly I gave them the whole his-
tory os the place, and os my coming to it; shewed them
my sortisications, the way I made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my grapes; and, in Æ word, all that was
necessary to make them easy; I told them the story also
os the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected; sor
whom I lest a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves.
I lest them my sire-arms; viz. sive muskets, three
sowling-pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel
os powder lest, sor aster the sirst year or two I used but
little, and wasted none. I gave them a description os the
wny I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
satten them, to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part os mv own story;
and
and told them, I would prevail with the captain to leave
them two barrels os gun-powder more, and some garden
feed which I told them I would have been very glad os;
also I gave them the bag os peas which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be lure to sow and in-
crease them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two os the sive men came swimming to the ship's
side, and, maleing a most lamentable complaint os the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, sor God's
sake, sor they mould be murdered; and begged the cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged them im-
mediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me ; but aster some disssiculty, and aster their so-
lemn promises os amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time aster soundly whipped
and pickled; aster which they proved very honest
and quiet sellows.
Some time aster this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men?
to which the captain, at my interceilion, caused their
chests and cloaths to be added; which they took, and
were very thanksul sori' I also encouraged them, by tel-
ling them, that is it lay in my way to send a vessel t;i
take them in, I would not sorget them.
When I took leave os this island, I carried on board,
sor reliques, the, great goat's-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one os my parrots; also I sorgot not to
take tlie money I sormerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless, that is was grown rusty, or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass sor silver, till it had been
a little rubbed and handled; and also the money I sound
in the wreck os the Spanish ship.
And thus I lest the island, the nineteenth os Decem-
ber, as I sound by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
astef I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, t4#
months,
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
fecond captivity the fame day of the month that I sirst
made my efcape in the Barco-longo, srom among the
Moors ot Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 16S7, having been
thirtv and sive years abfent.
When I arrived in England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world, as is I had never been known
there; my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had
.left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had
great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the
fecond time, and very low in circumstances. I made
her eafy as to what she owed me, assuring her, I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithiulnels to me, I relieved her
as my little stock would afford, which at that time
would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindnefs to
me; nor did I forget her, when I had fufficient to help
her, as fnail be obierved in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but mv fa-
ther was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct;
except that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given ever for dead, there had been no provision made
for me; fo that, in a word, T found nothing to relieve or
assist me; and that little money I had, would not do much
for me as to fettling in the world.
I met with one piece of gra' itude, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
fhip, whom I had fo happily delivered, and by the fame
means faved the fnip and cargo, having given a very fa-
vourable account to the owners, of the manner in which
1 had laved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited
me to meet them, and some other merchants concerned,
and all together made me a very handsome compliment
upon that lubject, and a prefent of almost two hundred
pounds sterlinii>
Cut
But after making several reslections upon the circum-
stances os my lise, and how little way this would go to-
ward settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lit
bon, and see is I might not come by some insormation
os the state ot my plantation in the Brazils, and what
was become os my partner, who I had reason to suppose
had some years given me over sor dead.
With this view I tcok shipping sor Lisbon, where I
arrived in April sollowing; my man Friday accompany-
ing me very honestly in all these rumblings, and proving
a most saithsul servant on all occasions.
When I arrived at Lisbon, I sound out by enquiry,
and to my particular satissaction, my old sriend the cap-
tain ot the ship who sirst took me up at sea, oss the shore
os Asrica; he was now grown old, and had lest oss the
sea, having put his son, who was sar srom a young man,
into h s ship; and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly
knew him; but I soon brought mysels to his remem-
brance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions os our old acquaint-
ance, I enquired, you may be sure, aster my plantation,
and my partner; the old man told me, he had not been
in the Brazils sor about nine years; but that he could
assure me, that when he came away, my partner was
living, but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance os my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I would have a very good
account os the improvement os the plantation; sor that,
upon the general belies os my being, cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account os the
produce os my part os the plantation to the Procurator
Fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case I never Came
to claim it,Vsne third to the king, and two thirds to the
monastery os St. Augustine, to be expended sor the bene-
sit os the poor, and sor the conversion os the Indians to
the Catholic saith; but that is I appeared, or «ny one
sor me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored;
only that the improvement, or annual production, being
Vol. II. 29. I distributed
distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored i
but he allured me, that the steward ot the king's re-
venue, (itom lands) and the providoi e, or steward os the
monastery, bid taken great care all along, that the in-
cumbent, ihat is to say, my partner, gave every year a
saithsul account os the produce, os which t!ay received
dulv my moiety.
• 1 asked him, is he knew to what height os improve-
ment he hud brought the plantation; and whether he
thought it might be worth looking aster; or whether,
on rr,y goin'r thither, I mould meet with no obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one hals os it; and that, to the best os his remembrance,
he had heard, that the king's third os my part, which
was, it seems, granted away to some ether monastery,
or religious house, amounted to above two hundred
moidoris a year; that, as to my being restored to a
quiet possession os it, there was no question to be made
os that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and
my name being alio enrolled in the register os the coun-
try. Also he told rr.e, that the survivors os my two
trustees were very sair, honest people, and very wealthy;
and he believed I would not war.t their assistance sor
putting me in potsession, but would sind a very con-
siderable sum os money in their hands, sor my ac-
count, being the protlv.ee ot the sarm while their la-
thers held the trust, and besore it was given up, a*
above, which, as he remembered, was about twelve
years.
I shewed mysels a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and enquired os the old captain, how it came
to pass, that the trustees should thus dispose os my es-
sccts, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portugueze captain, my univer-
se! heir, &c.
lit told me, that was true; but that, as there wat
110 proos os my being dead, lie could not act as execu-
tor, until some certain acccun; should come os my death,
and that, besides, he was nor willing to intermeddls
with a thing so remote; that it was true, he had regis-
tered my will, and put in his claim; and could he have
given any account os my being dead or alive, lie would
have acted by procuration, and taken possession os
the ingenio, (Ib they called the sugar-house) and
had given his son, who was now at the Brazils, or-
ders to do it.
"But," says the old man, " I have one piece osnews
"to tell you; which, perhaps, may not be sb acceptable
"to you as the rest; and that is, that believmg you
"were lost, and all the world believing so also, your,
"partner and trustees did offer to account to me in
"your name, sor six or eight os the sirst years prosits,
'" which I received; but their being at that time great
"disbursements sor increasing the works, buildmg an
"ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near
"so much as asterwards it produced. . However," says
the old man, " I shall give you a true account os
"what I have received in all, and how I have dis-
"poied os it."
Aster a sew days sarther conserence with this ancient
sriend, he brought me an account os the six sirst years in-
come os my plantation, signed by my partner, and the
merchants trustees, being always delivered in goods;
viz. tobacco in rolls, and sugar in chests, besides, rum,
melaffes, &c. which is the consequence os a sugar-work;
and I sound by this account, that ever)' year the income
considerably increased ; but the disbursement being large,
the sum at sirst was small; however, the old man let me
see, that he was debtor to me sour hundred and seventy
moidores os gold, besides sixty chests os siigar, and
sisteen double rolls os tobacco, which were lost in
his ship, he having been shipwrecked coining home
to Lisbon, about eleven years aster my leaving the
place. -
The good man ther. began to complain os his missor-
J 2 tunes,
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make ufe of my
money to recover his losl'es, and buy him a share in a
new ship. "However, my old friend," fays he,
"you mall \ not want a fupply in your necessity;
"and as soon as my fon returns, you shall be fully
"fatissied."
Upon this he took out an old pouch, and gave me two
hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and taking the
writings of his title to the ship which his son was gone
to the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-part owner,
and liis fon another, he put them both in my hands for
fecurity of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindnefs
of the poor man, to be able to bear this; and remem-
bering what he had done for me; how he had taken me
up at iea, and how generously he had ufed me on all oc-
cafions, and particularly, how sincere a sriend he was to .
me, I could hardly retrain weeping at what he faidi I
therefore sirst afked him, if his circumstances admitted
him to fpare ib much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him. He told me he could not fay but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my mo-
ney, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man faid was full of affection,
and I could hardly retrain from tears while he spoke.
In short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called
for a pen and ink to give him a receipt sor them ; then
I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had pof-
fession os the plantation, I would return the other to him
alfo, as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as to the bill
of fale of.his part in his ion's fhip, I would not take it
by any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found
he was honest. enough to pay me; and if I did not, but
came to receive what he gave me reafon to expect, I would
never have a penny more srom him.
When this was pasted, the old man began to ask me
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to
the plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it
myselfi he sb,id I might do so if I pleafed; but that if I
did
did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately appropriate the prosits to my usei and as
there were ships in the river os Lisbon, just ready to go
away to Brazil* he made me enter my name in a public
register, with his assidavit, assirming, upon oath that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took up
the land sor planting the laid plantation at sirst.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation assixed, he directed me to lend it with a letter os
his writing, to a merchant os his acquaintance at the
place; and then proposed my staying with him till an
account came os the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; sor in less than seven
months I received a large packet srom the survivors os
my trustees, the merchants, sor whose account I went to
sea, in which were the sollowing particular letters and
papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current os the produce
os my sarm, or plantation, srom the year when their sa-
thers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, beirig
sor six years; the balance appeared to be 1 174, moidores
in my savour.
Secondly, There was the account os sour years more
while they kept the essects in their hands, besore the go*
vernment claimed the administration, as being the essects
os a person not to be sound, winch they call civil death;
and the balance os this, the value os the plantation, in-
creasing, amounted to cruiiadoes which made three thou-
sand two hundred and sorty one moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior os the Augustines ac-
count, who had received the prosits sor above sourteen,
years; but not being able to account sor what was dis-
posed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had Kji
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged tq
niy account, AS to the king's part, that resunded,
nothing.
There was also a letter os my partner's, congratulat-
ing me very afsectionately upon my being alive; giving
J 3 m<*
me an account how the estate was improved, and what
it produced a yeir, with a particular os the number os
squares or acres it contained; how planted; how many
staves there were upon it; and making two and twenty
crosses sor blessings, told me, he had said so many Ave
Maria's to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and take pos-
session os my own, and in the mean time to give him or-
ders to whom he should deliver my effects, is I did not
come mysels; concluding with an hearty render os his
sriendship, and that os his samily; and sent me, as a
present, seven sine leopards skins, which he had, it seems,
received trim At"rica by some ship, which he had sent
thither, and' who, it seems, had made a better voyage
than I. He lent me also sive chests os excellent iweat-
meats ; and an hundred pieces os gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidores.
By the same sleet my two merchant trustees shipped
me one thousand two hundred chests os sugar, eight hun-
dred rolls os tobacco, and the rest os the whole account
in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end os
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the slutterings o! my very heart, when I looked
over these letters, and especially when I sound all my
wealth abo\it me; sor as the Brazil so'ps came all in
sleets, the same ships which brought my letters,
brought my goods; and the effects were sase in the Ta-
gus besore the letter came to my hands; in a word, I
turne<! pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man run
and setched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprize
os joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the
spot.
Nay, aster that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician bcir.g sent sor, and some-
thing os the real caule os my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood; aster which I had relies, and
grew well; but I verily believe, is it had not been eased _
by the vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should-
have died. \ wa$
I was now master all on a sudden, os above 5o,oooI.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call
'it, in the Brazils, os above a thousand pounds a year, as
lure as an estate os lands in England; and, in a word, I
was in a condition which I scarce knew how to under-
stand, or how to compoie mysels sor the enjoyment os.
The sirst thing I did, was to recompense my origmal
benesactor, my good old captain, who had been sirst cha-
ritable to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I shewed him all that was
sent mei I told him that, next to the Providence ot
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him;
and that it now lay in my power to reward hun, which
I would do an hundred-told. So I sirst returned to him
the hundred moidores I had received os him; then I lent
sor a notary, and caused him to draw up a general re-
lease or discharge sor the sour hundred and seventy moi-
dores which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the
sullest and sirmest manner possible; aster which, I caused
a procuration to be drawn, impowering him to be my
receiver os the annual prosits os my plantation, and ap-
pointing my partner to account to him, and make the
returns by the urual sleets to him in my name; and a
clause in the end, being a grant os one hundred moidores
a year to him during his lise, out os the effects; and
sisty moidores a year to his son aster him, sor his lise.
And thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands i and, indeed, I had more care
upon my head now, than I had in my silent state os lise
in thi island, where I wanted nothing but what I had,
and had nothing but what I wantedi whereas, Iliad
now a great charge upon me, and my business was how
to secure it. I had never a cave to hide my money in,
or a placi' where it might lie without lock or key, till
it grew mouldy and tarnished besore any body would
meddle with iti on the contrary, i knew not where to
put it, cr whom to trust with it; my old patron, tb*
captain,
captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only
resuge I had. ,
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed
to summon me thither; hut now I could net tell how to
think.os going thither till I had settled my affairs, and
lest mv effects in some sase hands behind me. At sirst,
I thought os my old sriend the widow, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then slie was in
years, r.nd but poor, and, sor aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back
to England mysels, and take my effects with me.
I was some months, however, besore I resolved upon
this; and theresore, as I had rewarded the old captain
sully, and to his satissaction, who hp.d been my sormer-
benesactor; so I began to think os mv poor widow,
whose husband had been my sirst benesactor, and stie,
while it was in het power, my saithsul steward and in-
structori so the sirst thing I did, I got a merchant in
Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only
to pay a bill, but to go sind her out, and carry her in mo-
ney a hundred pounds srom me, and to talk with her,
and comsort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
is I lived, have a sarther supply. At the same time I
sent my two sisters in the country, each os them, a hun-
dred pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married and
lest a widow, and the other having a husband not so kind
to her as he should be.
But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one, to whom 1 durst commit
the gross os my stock, that I might go away to the Bra-
zils, and leave things lase behind me; and this greatly
perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gene Io the Brazils, and.
have settled mysels there; sor I was, as it were, natur-
alized to the place; but I had some little scruple in my
mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back, os
which I snail say more presently. However, it was not
jeligion that kept rqe srom going thither sor the present;
and,
and, as I had made no scruple os being openly os the
religion os the country, all the while I was among them,
so neither did I yet; only that now and then having os
late thought more os it than formerly, when I began to
think os living and dying among them, I began to re-
gret my having prosessed mysels a Papist, and thought
it might not be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me srom going to the Brazils, but that really
I did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
pie; so I resolved at last to go to England with them,
where, is I arrived, I concluded I mould make some
acquaintance, or sind some relations, that would be
saithsul to me; and accordingly I determined to go sor
England with all my wealth.
Iir order to prepare things sor my going home, I
sirst (the Brazil sleet being just going away) resolved to
give answers suitable to the just and saithful account os
things I had srom thence; and sirst to the Prior os St.
Augustine I wrote a letter sull os thanks sor his just
dealings, and the offer os the eight hundred and seventy
two moidores, which were undisposed os, which I de-
sired might be given, five hundred to the monastery, and
three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior
should direct, desiring the good padre's prayers for me,
and the like. ,
I wrote next a letter os thanks to my trustees, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and ho-
nesty called sor. As for sending them any present,
they were sar above having occasion sor it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in improving the plantation, and his integrity
in increasing the stock os the works, giving him instruc-
tions sor his suture government os my part, according
to the powers I had lest with my old patron, to whom
I desired him to fend whatever became due to me, till
he should hear srom me more particularly; assuring him
that it was my intention, not only to come to him, but
to settle mysels'there for the remainder os my lise. To
this
this I added a very handsome present os some Italian silk*
sor his wise and two daughters, iur such the captain's son
insormed me he had; with two pieces os sine English broad
cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, sive pieces os black
baize, and some Flanders lace cs considerable value.
Having; thus settled my assairs, sold 'my cargo, and
turned all my essects into good bills os exchange, my
next dissiculty was, which way to go to England. I had
been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I ha J a strange
aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason sor it, yet the dissiculty
increased upon me so much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is trne, I had been very unsortunate by sea, and
this might be one os the reasons; but let no man slight
the strong impulses os his own thoughts in cases
os such moment. Two oi the soips which I had singled
out to go in; I mean, more particularly singled out
than any other; that is to say, so as in one os them to
put my things on board, and in the other to have agreed
with the captin; I say, two os these ships miscarried,
viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was
cast away on the Start near Torbay, and all the people
drowned except three; so that in either os thote vessels
I had been made miserable, and in which most, it is
hard to say.
Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed me
earnestly not to go by sea; but either to go by land to
the Groyne, and cross over the Bay os Biscay to Ro-
chelle, srom whence it was but any easy and sase journey
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go up
to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I wai so prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except srom Calais to Dover, that I resolved
to travel all the way by landi which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleaiknter way; and to make it more so, my old cap-
tain
f!iin brought an English gentleman, the son os a mer-
chant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me.
After which we picked up two who were English mer-
chants also, and two young Portugueze gentlemen, the
last going to Paris only; so that we were in all six os
us, and rive servants, the two merchants, and the two
Portugueze, contenting themselves with one servant be-
tween two, to save expences; and as sor me, I got an
EnglUh sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my
man Friday, who was too much a stranger io be capable
os supplying the place os a servant upon the road.
In this manner I set out srom Lisbon; and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made
a little troop, whereos they did me the honour to call
me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be-
cause I had two servants, and indeed was the original
os the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none os my sea jour-
nals, so shall I trouble you with none os my land jour-
nal i but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedious and dissicult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the
court os Spain, and what was worth observing; but it
being the latter part ot the summer, we hastened away,
and set out srom Madrid about the middle os October.
But when we came to the edge os Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much show had sallen on the French side os the
mountains, that several travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampeluna, aster having attempted, at an ex-
treme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna, we sound it so indeed;
and to me that had been always uied to an hot climate,
and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear any
cloaths on, the cold was unbearable; nor, indeed, was
it more painsul than it was surprising, to come but ten
days besore cut os the Old Castile, where the weather
was not only warm, but very hot; and immediately to
5 ' fed
scel a wind srom the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen,
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
numbing and perishing os our singers and toes was very
strange.
Poor Friday was really srighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with show, and selt cold weather
which he had never seen or selt besore in his lise.
To mend the matter, aster we came to Pampeluna,
it continued showing with so much violence, and so long
that the people said—' Winter was coming besore its
'time?' and the roads which were disssicult besore, were
now quite impassablei in a word, the show lay in some
places too thick sor us to travel; and being not hard
srozen, as is the case in Northern countries, there was
no going without danger os being buried alive every
step. We staid no less than twenty days at Pampeluna;
when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood
os its being better, sor it was the severest winter all
over Europe, that had been known many years) I pro-
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there
take shipping sor Bourdeaux, which was a very little
voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in sour
French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side os the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
sound out a guide, who, traversing the country near the
head os Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by sihch ways, that thev were not much incom-
moded with the show; and where they met with show
in any quantity, they said it was srozen hard enough to
bear them and their horses.
We sent sor this guide, who told us, he would under-
take to cany us the same way, with no hazard srom the
show, provided we were armed sussiciently to protect us
srom wild beasts; sor, he said, upon these great shows,
it was srequent sor some wolves to shew themselves at
the soot os the mountains, being made ravenous sor want
os sood. We told him we were well enough prepared
sor such creatures as they were, is he would insure us
srom
srom a kind os two-legged wolves, which we were told
we were in most danger srom, especially on the French
£de o! the mountains.
He satissied us that there was no danger os that kind
in the way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to
sollow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their seivants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I
said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.
According!y; we all set out srom Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the 15th os November; and, indeed, I
was surprized, when, instead os going forward, he came
directlv hack with us, on the same rca.1 that we came
srom Madrid, above twenty milei; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no show to be seen; but, on a sud-
den, turning.to the lest, lie a;prcached the mountains
another way; and though it is true, the hills and the
precipices looked dreadiully;yethe made so many tours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we
insensibly passed the height os the mountains, without
being much incumbered with the show; and all on a sud-
den he shewed us the pleasant sruitsul provinces os Lan-
guedoc and Gascoigne, all green and slourishing; though
indeed, they were at a great distance, and we had seme
rough way to pass yet.
f We were a little uneasy, however, when we sound it
showed one whole day and a night, so sast, that we could
not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be
past it all. We sound, indeed, that we bea;an to de-
scend every day, and to come more north tliau before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was abuut two hours besore night, when our guide
being something besore us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and aster them a bear,
srom an heilow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two
os the wolves slew upon the guide; and had he been
hals a mile besore us, he had been devoured indeed, be-
VoL. II. 25. K sore
sore we could have helped him. One ot them sastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man, with
that violence, that he had not time, or not presence or
mind enough, to draw hi* pistol, but hallooed and cried
out to us most lustily; my man Friday being next to
me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the matter.
As loon as Friday ciine in sight oi the man, he hal-
looed as loud as the other—' 0 master! O master! But
like a bold sciiow, rode directly up to the nun, and
with his pistol shnt the wolt that attacked him in the head.
It was happy sor the poor man, that it was my man
Friday; sor lie, having betn used to that kind cs crea-
ture in his country, had no tear upon him, but went
up clote to him, and iliot him, as above; whereas any
ot us would have sired at a sarther distance, and have
perhaps, either miffed the wolt, or endangered siicotuig
the man.
But it was enough to have terrisied a bolder man than
I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with
the noise os Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the
the dismallest bowlings ot' wolves, and the noise re-
doubled by the echo cr the mountains, that it was to
us as is there had been a prodigious multitude ot them;
and perhaps, indeed, there was not so small a number
as that we had no cause or apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wols, the other,
that had sastened upon the horse, lest him immediately
and sled, having happily sastened upon his head, where
the botses os the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him much hurti the man, indeed, was
most hurt; sor the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above h.*
knee; and he was just as it were tumbling down by
the disorder os the hone, when Friday came up and shot
the wols.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise os Friday's pis-
tol, we all mended our pace, and role up as sast as the
way (which was very dissicult) wousd give us leave, to
see what was the matteri as soon as we came clear os
the
the trees, which biinded us before, we saw plain!)- what
had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the
poor guide; though we did not presently diieern what
kind os creature it was he had killed.
But never was a sight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprizing manner, as that which followed between
Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though at sirsti
we were surprized and asraid sor him) the greatest- di-
version imaginable. As the bear is a heavy clumsy
creature, and does not gallop as the wols does, which is
swist and light, io he has two particular qualities, which
generally are the rule os his actions i sirst, as to men,
who are not his proper prey; I say, not his proper
prey, though I cannot lav what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their case, the ground being all co-
vered with show; vet, as to men, he does not usually
attempt them, unless they sirst attack him; on the
contrary, is you meet him in the woods, though is
you do not meddle with him, he won't meddle with
you; ye;, then, you must take care to be very ci-
vil to him, and give him the ioad; sor he is a very
nice gentleman, he won't go a step out os the way for
a prince; nay, is you are really asraid, your best way
is to loolt another way, and keep going on; for some-
times, is you stop and stand still, and look stedsastly at
him, he takes it for an assront, but it you throw or toss
any thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but
a bit os stick as big as your singer, he takes it sor an
affront, and sets all other business aside to pursue his
revenge; sor he will have satissaction in point os ho-
nour; and this is his sirst qualityi the next is, that is
he be once asfronted, he will never leave you night or
day, till he has liis revenge, but follow at a good round
rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off srom his
horie; for the man was both hurt and srighted, and
indeed the last more than the sirst; when, on a sudden,
we Ipied the bear come out os the wood, and a mon.
K a ftrous
strous one it was, the biggest by sar that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprized when we saw him; but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to ice joy and courage
in the sellow's countenance i 'O! O! O! (says Fri-
'day, three times, pointing to him) O master, you give
* me te leave, me shakee te hand with him, me make©
'you good laugh.'
I was surprized to see the sellow so pleased. 'You
« sool you (said I) he will eat you up.'—' Eatee me
« up! eatee me up! (says Friday twice over again.)
* Me eatee him up; me makee you good laugh; you
'all stay here, me shew you good laugh.' So down he
sits, and gets his boots oss in a moment, and put on a
pair os pumps, (as we call the slat shoes they wear)
and which he had in his pocket, gives my other ser-
vant his horse, and with his gun, away he slew, swist
like the wind.
The bear was walking sostly on, and ossered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls
to him, as is the bear could understand him. 'Hark ye,
« hark ye (says Friday) me speake wit you.' We sollow-
ed at a distance; sor now being comedown to the Gas-
coigne side os the mountains, we entered a vast great
sorest, where the country was plain, and pretty open,
though many trees in it scattered here anil there.
Friday, who h,ad, as we say, the he.ds os the bear,
came up with him quickly, and taking up a great stone
and throwing at him, hit him just on the heid; but it
did him no more harm than is he had thrown it against
a walli but it answered Friday's end; sor the rogue was
so void os sear, that he did it purely to make the bear
sollow him, and shew us some Hugh, as he called it.
As soon as the bear selt the stone, and saw him, he
turned about, and came aster him, taking devilim long
sirides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would
put a horse to a middling gallop; away ran Friday*
taking his course as is he ran towards us sor help; so
we ail resolved to sire at once upon the bear, and deli-
ver my man; though I was angry at him heartily sor
bringing
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about his business another way; and especially I was
angry that he had tinned the bear upon us, and then run
away; and I calied out—'You dog (said I) is this your
'making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse,
'that we mav shoot the creature.' He heard me, and
cried out—'No shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get
• much laugh!' and as the nimble creature ran two seet
sor the beast's cr.e, he turned on a sudden, on one side os
us, and seeing a great oak tree, sit sor his purpose, he
beckored us to sollow, and doubling his pace, he got
nimblv up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about sive or six yards srom the bottom os
the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and as we sollowed
at a distancei the sirst thing he did was, to stop at the
gun, which he smelt to, but let it lie, he then scram-
bled into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strously heavy. I was amazed at the solly, as I thought
it, os my man, and could not sor my lise see anything
to laugh at yet, till sinding the bear had got up the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small part os a large limb os the tree, and the
bear got abcut halsway to him. As soon as the bear
got cut to that part where the limb os the tree was
weaker—* Ha, (says lie to us) now you fee me teachee
* the bear dance!' So he salls a lumping and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
still, and looked behind him, to see how he should get
back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Fri-
day had not done with him by a great deal. When he
saw him stand still, he cailed out to him again, as is he
had siippo!ed the bear could speak English-*—' What,
'you come no sarther? Pray you come sarther!' So he
lest jumping and shaking the bough; and the bear, just
as is he understood what he said, did come a little sar-
ther; then he si.ll a jumping again, and the bear stop-
ped again,
K3 We
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to sta-id still, and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly—' O
* pray! O pray !, no shoot; me shoet by and then! (he
'would have laid) by and by.' However, to shcrten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so
ticklith, that we had laughing enough indeed, but still
could not imagine what the sellow would do; for sirst
we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and
we sound the bear was too cunning for that too; for
he would not get out far enough to be thrown down,
but clung fart with his great broad claws and feet, so
that we could not impgine what would be the end of it
and where the jest v\puld be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for feeing
the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not
be perfuaded to come any farther; 'Well, well, (iaid
Friday) you no come farther, me go, me go; you no
* come to me, me come to you.' And upon this he
went to the fmallest end of the bough, where it might
bend with his weight, and gently let himfels down bv
it, sliding down the bough, till he came near enough to
jump down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun,
took it up, and stood still.
'Well (faid I to him) Friday, what will you do now?
'Why don't you stioot himi—No fhoot, (fays Friday)
'no yet; me shoot now, me no killi me stay, me give
* you one more laugh.' And indeed so he did, as you
will fee prefently; for when the bear faw his enemy
gone, he came back from the bough where he stood, In t
did it mighty leifurely, looking behind every step, ami
coming backward till he got into the body of the treei
then, with the fame hinder end foremost, he camedo^n
the tree, grafping it with his claws, and moving one
foot at a time, very leifurelv; st this juncture, and i' ft
before he could fet his hind feet upon the ground, Fii-
day stepped dole to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece
into his ear, and fhot him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about, to fee if we did not
laugh;
laugh; and when he law we were plcased by our looks,
he sell a laughing himsels very loud. 'So we kill bear
'in mv country, (says Friday). So you kill them,
(said I;) why, you have no guns.'—' No (lays he) no
* guns, but shoot great much long arrow.'
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were still in a wild place, and our guide veiy much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling os
the wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed, except
the noise I once heard on the shore os Asrica, os which
I have said something aheady, I never heard any thing
that silled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach os night, called us
oss, or else, as Friday would have had us, we should
certainly have taiun the skin os this monstrous creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had t'rree leagues
to go, and cur guide hastened us; so we lest him, and
went forward on cur journey.
The ground was still covered with show, though not
so deep and dangtrous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard asterwards, were come
down into the sorest, and plain country, pressed by hunger*
to seek sor sood, and had done a erreat deal os mischies in
the villages where they surprized the country people, kill-
ed many os their sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, os which our
gnidif/rid us, is there were any more wolves in the
co'ir.'.ry, we shculd sind them there; and this was a
small plain, suirounded with woed, on every side, and a
long n.'.now desile er lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.
It was within hals an hour os fun set when we en-
tered the sirst wood, and a little aster son-set when we
came into the plain. We met with nothing in the sirst
wood, except that in a little plain within the wood, which
was not above two surlongs over, we saw sive great
wolves cross the road, full speed one asttr another, as
is they had been in chace os some prey, and had it in
view
view; they took no notice os us, and were gone and
out os sight in a sew moments.
Upon this, our guide, who, by the way was a wretched
sa'mt-hesr'ed sellow, hade us keep in a ready posture,
sor he believed there were mere wolves a coming.
We k*:pt our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near halt a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look about us. The sirst object we
met with, was a dead horse, that is to say, a poorherie,
which the wolves had killed and at least a dozen os them
at work ; we could not say eating os him, but picking his
bones rather, sor they had eaten up all the slesh before.
We did not think sit to disturb them at their seast,
neither did they take much notice ot us. Friday would
have let sty at them, but I would not susser him by any
means; lor I sound we were like to have more builness
upon our hands than we aware os. We were not hals
gone over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves
howl in the wood, on our left, in a srightsul manner;
and presently aster we law about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most os them in
a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experi-
enced ossicers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
them; but sound, to draw ourselves in a close line, was
the only wayi so we sormed in a moment; but that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered, that only
every other man should sire; and that the others, who
had not sired, should stand ready to give them a second
volley immediately, is they continued to advance upon
us; and that then those who had sired at sirst, should
not pretend to load their susils again, but stand ready,
with everyone a pistol; sor we were ali armed with a fu-
sil, and a pair ot pistols each man; Ib we were, by this
method, able to sire six volleys, hals os us at a time.
However, at present, we had no necessity; sor, upcn
siring the sirst volley, the enemy made a full step, be-
ing terrisied, as well with the jioisi, as with the siie;
sour
sour os them, being shot in the head, dropped; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we
couid see by the shcw. I sound they stopped, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that
I had been told, that the siercest creatures were terri-
sied at the voice os a man, I caused all our company to
halloo as loud as we could; and I sound the notion not
altogether mistaken"; sor, upon our shout, they began
to retire, and turn about; then I ordered a second vol-
ley to be sired in their rear, which put them to the gal-
lop; and away they went to the woods.
This gave us lehiire to charge our pieces again; and
that we might lose no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our susils, and put our-
selves into readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in
the same wood on our lest; only that it was sarther on j
w;rd the same way we were to go.
Ti.~ night was now coming on, which made it the
worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could
easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling os
those hellish creatures; and, on a iudden, we perceived
two cr three troops os wolves, one on our lest, one
behind us, and one in our sront; so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them; however, as they did not sall
upon us, we kept our way sorward, as sast as we could
make our horses go, which, the way being very rough
was only a good trot; and in this manner we only
came in view os the entrance os the wood, through
which we were to pass, at the sarther side os the plain;
but we were greatly surprized, when coming near the
lane, or pass, we saw a confused number os wolves
standing iust at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening os the wood, we
heard the noise os a gun, and, looking that way, out
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, slying
like tiie wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves aster
him, sull speed; indeed tire horse had the heels os them;
but, as we supposed he could not hold it .at that rate,
we doubted not but they would get up with him at last,
and no question but they did. Here
Here we hail a most horrible sight; tor riding up r»
the entrance where the horse came out, we sound the
carcase os another horse, and oi two men, devoured hy
these ravenous creatures, ?nd one ot the men was, no
doubt, the same whom we heard sire the gun; tor there
lay a gun just by him sired off; but, as to the man,
his head, and the upper part ot his body, were eaten
sip.
This silled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon ; sor
they gathered about us presently, in hopes os prey;
and I verily btlicve there were three hundred ot' them.
It happened, very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way irom it, there
lay some large trees, which hat! been cut down the sum-
mer besore, and I suppose lay there tor carriage. I
drew my little troop in among these trees; and placing
ourselves in a line behind one large tree, I advised them
all u> alight, and keeping that tree besore its, sor a
breast-work, to stand in a triangle, cr three sronts in-
closing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; sor never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this placei they came on us with a growling kind os
a noise, and mounted the piece ot timber, (which, as I
laid, was our breast-work) as it they were oijy rush-
ing upon their prey; and this sury os theirs, it teems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered
cur men to sire as besore, every other man; and they
took their aim io sure, that indeed they killed several
os the wclves at the sirst volley; but there was a neces-
sity to keep a continual siring, sor they came soiward
like devils, those behind pushing en those besore.
When we had sired our second volley os our susils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have guie oss; but it was but a moment, sor
/o'.hers came lorward again; so we sired our volleys os
our pistols; and I believe in these sour sirings we killed
seventeen
ar eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet
thev came on again. ,
I was loth to fpend our last shot too hastily; fo I
called my fervant, not my man Friday, for he was
better employed; for, with the greatest dexterity ima-
ginable, lie charged my fusil, and his own, while we
were engaged; but, as'I faid, I called my other man,
and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large
traini he did fo, and had but just time to get away,
when the wolves came up upon it; when I, fnapping
an uncharged pistol clofe to the powder, fet it on sire;
and thofe that were upon the timber were fcorched with-
it, and six or feven of them fell, or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the sire; we
dispatched thefe in an instant, and the rest were fo
frighted with the light, which the night, for now it
wai very near dark, made more terrible, that they
drew back a little.
Upon this I ordered our list pistols to be sired off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shouti upon this
the wolves turned tail, and we iallied immediatelv upon
near twenty lame ones, which we found struggling on
the ground, and fell cutting them with our fwords;
which anfwered our expectation, for the crying and
howling they made were better understood by their fel-
lows; fo that they sled, and left us.
We had, sirst and last, killed about three-score of
them; and had it been day-light, we had killed many
more. The sield of battle being thus cleared, we made
forward agiin; for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went feveral times, and fometimes we
sancied we saw fome of them, but the fnow dazzling
our eyes, we were not certam i fo in about an hour
more, we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms;
for it feems, that the night before, the wolves and sbine
bears ;iad broken into that village, and put them in a
terrible
terrible sright; and that they were obliged to keep
guard night and day, but especially in the night, to
preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelled with the rankling os his two wounds, that i e
could go no sarther; so we were obliged to take a new-
guide there, and go to Tholouie, where we sound a
warm climate, a sruitful pleasant country, and no mow,
no wolvt-s, or any thing like them; but wiien we told
our story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but
what was ordinary in the great sorest at the soot os the
mountains, especially when the show lay on the groundi
but they enquired much what kind os a guide we had
gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such
a severe season; and told us, it was very sortunate we
were not all devoured. When we told them in what
manner we placed ourselves, and the horles in the mid-
dle, they blamed us exceedingly and told us, it was
sisty to one bufwe had been all destroyed; sor it w?s
the sight os the horses that made the wolves so surious,
seeing their prey; and I hat at other times they are really
asraid os a gun; but they being excessive hungry, ard
raging on that account, the eagerness to come at tie
horses had made them senseless os danger; and that is
we had not by the continued sire, and at last by the
stratagem os the train oi" powder, mastered them, it had
been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces;
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and sired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much sor their own, when men were on
their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that
at last, is we had stood al! together, and lest cur horses,
they would have been so eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come ess sase, especially, havii.g
our sire arms in our hands, and being so many in
number.
For my part, I was never so sensible os danger in my
lise; sor seeing above three hundred devils come roa r-
ing and open-mouth.-d to <Jcvour iis, and having no-
* tain-r
thing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave mysels over sor
loll; and as it was I believe, I shall never care to cross
those mountains again; I think I would much rather go
a thousand leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet
with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice os, in my
.passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
veliers have given an account os with much mere ad-
vantage than I can. I travelled srom Tholouse to Pa-
ris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais,
and landed sase at Dover the 14th os January, aster
having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre os my travels, and
had in a little time all my new discovered estate sase
about me; the bills os exchange, which I brought with
me, having been very currently paid.
My principal guide, and privy-counsellor, was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude sor the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to employ sor me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thing, that I was persectly easy as to the
security os my essects; and indeed I was very happy srom
my beginning, ami now to the end, in the unspotted in-
tegrity os this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think os leaving my effects witli
this woman, and setting out sor Lisbon, and so to the
Brazils; but a scruple came in the way, and that was
religioni sor as I had entertained some doubts about
the Roman religion, even while I was abroad, especi-
ally in my state os solitude; so I knew there was no go-
ing to the Brazils sor me, much less going to settle
there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catho-
lick religion without any reserve; except, on the other
hand, I resolved to be a sacrisice to my principles, be
a martyr sor religion, and die in tiie inquisition; so I
resolved to stay at home, and is I could meet with the
opportunity to dispose os my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote, to my old sriend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily dis-
VoL. II. 29 L pose
.pole of it there i but that if I thought sit to give him
leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the
furvivors of my trustees who lived in the Brazils, who
must fully understand the value of it, who lived just upon
the fpot, and whom I knew to be very rich, fo that he
believed they would be fond of buying it; he did not
doubt but I should make four or sive thoufand pieces of
eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did fo; and, in about eight months more,
the fhip being then returned, he fent me an account,
that they had accepted the cffer, and had remitted thirty
three thoufand pieces of eight to a correfpondent of
theirs at Litbon, to pay for it.
In return, I figned the instrument of fale in the form
which they fent from Litbon, and fent it to my old man,
who fent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thou-
fand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate; re-
ferving the payment of one hundred moidores a-yearto
him, the old man, during his lise, and sifty moidores
afterwards to his fon for his life, which I-had promifed
them; and which the plantation was to make good as
a rent-charge.
And thus I have given the sirst part of a life of
fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's che-
quer-work, and ot a variety which the world will
feldom be able to shew the like of; beginning foolithly,
but closing much mi.re happily than any part ol it ever
gave me leave fo much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards;
and so, indeed I had been, is other circumstances had
occurred; but I was mured to a wandermg lite, had no
family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had
I contracted much acquamtance; and though I had told
my estaie in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that
country out of my head, and hf^l a great mmd to be
upon the wing again; especially I could not refist the
strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know
if
is the poor Spaniards were in being there; and how the
rog-iies I lest there had used them. .
My true sriend, the widow earnestly dissuaded me
srom it; and so sar prevailed with me, that almost for
seven years she prevented my going abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children os one
os my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having some-
thing os his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave
him a settlement os some addition to his estate alter my
decease; the other I put out to a captain os a ship;
and aster sive years, sinding him a sensible, bold, en-
terprising young scllow; I put him into a good sliip,
and lent him to sea i anil this young tellow afterwards
drew me in, old as I was, to sarther adventures my-
sels.
In the mean time, I in part settled mysels here i sor
sirst os all I married, and that not either to my disadvan-
tage or dissatissaction; and had three children, two
sens and one daughter. But my wise dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success srom a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu-
nity prevailed, and engaged me tor go in his ship as a
private trader to the East-Indies. This was in the year
1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island;
saw my successors the Spaniards; had the whole story
os their lives, and os the villains I lest therei how at
sirst they insulted the poor Spaniards; by what means
they asterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and
how at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence
with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; an history, is
it were entt-red into, as sull os variety and wonderful
accidents as my own lise; particularly also as to their
battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several times
upon the island, and as to the improvements they made
upon the island itsels; with an account os the manner
in which they made an attempt upon the main land,
and brought away eleven men and sive women prisoners;
Li by
by which, at my coming, I sound about twenty young
children on the island.
Here I staid about twenty days; lest them supplies
os all necessary things, and particularly os arms, pow-
der, mot, cloaths, tools, and two workmen, which
I brought srom England with me; viz. a carpenter, and
a. smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with them,
reserving to mysels the property os the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and
having fettled all things with them, and engaged them
not to quit the place, I lest them.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, srom whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people
on the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent
seven women, being such as I sound proper sor service,
or sor wives to such ar, would take them. As to the
Englishmen, I promised to send them some women srom
England, witha good cargo os necessaries, is they would
apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards could
not persorm. The sellows proved very honest and di-
ligent aster they were mastered, and had their proper-
ties set apart sor them. I lent them also srom the Bra-
zils, sive cows, (three os them being big with cals)
some sheep, and some hogs ; -which, when I came again,
were considerably encreased.
But all these things, with an account how three hun-
dred Caribeans came and invaded them, and ruined their
plantations; and how they sought with that whole
number twice, and were at sirst deseated and one os
them killed; but at last a storm destroying their ene-
mies canoes, they samished or destroyed almost all the
rest, and renewed and recovered the possession os their
plantation, and still lived upon the island. Ail these
things, with some very surprizing incidents in some
new adventures os my own, sor ten years more, I may,
perhaps give a sarther account os hereaster.
That homely proverb, u.ed on so many occasions in
England, viz. ' That what is bred in the bone will
« not
'not go out of the slcsh;' was never"more verisied than
in the story of mv life. Any one would think that after
thirty sive years assliction, and a variety of unhappy cir-
cumstances, which few men, if ever any, went through
before, aird after near feven years of peace and enjoy-
ment in the fuilnels ot all things; grown old, and when,
if ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience
os every state of middle life, and to know which was
most adapted to make a man completely happy; I fay
after all this,. any one would have thought, that the
native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account
of in my sirst ictting out into the world, to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed,
and I might at sixty oie years of age have been a I.ttle
inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing life
and sortune any more.
Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven-
tures was taken away in me; ter I had no fortune to
make, I had nothing to feck. If I had gained ten
thousand pounds, 1 had been no richer; for I had al-
ready sufficient for me and fot thefe I had to leave it to,
and that I had was visibly increasing; for having no
great family, I could not fpend the income of what I
had, unlefs I would fet up for an expenfive way of liv-
ing, fuch as a great samily, servants, equipage, gaiety,
and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or
inclination to; so that I had nothing indeed to do, but
to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and fee it in-
crease daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least
not enough to resist the strong inclmation I had to go
abroad again, which hung about me like a chronical.
distemper; particularly, the desire of leeing my new
plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, run in
my head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my
imagination ran upon it all day; it was uppermost in.
all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and
£rongiy upon it, that 1 talked of it in my sleep; in short,
L 3 nothing
nothing could remove it out os my mind. It even
broke sb violently into all my discourses, that it made
my conversation tiresome; tor I could talk os nothing
else; all my discourse run into it, even to impertinence,
and I saw it mysels.
I have osten heard persons os good judgment say,
that all the stir people make in the world about ghosts
and apparitions, is owing to the strength os imagination,
and the powersul operation os sancy on their minds;
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking, and the like: that people's poring as-
scctionately upon the past conversation os their deceased
sriends, so realizes itsels to them, that they are capable
os sancying upon some extraordinary circumstances,
that they see them, talk to them, and are answered
by them; when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow
and vtpourin the thing, and they really know nothing
os the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour, whether there
are any such things as real apparations, spectres, or
walking os people aster they are dead, or whether there
is any thing in the stories they tell us os that kind,
more than the product os vapours, sick minds, and wan-
dering sancies i but this I know, that my imagination
worked me up to such a heighth, and brought me into
such excess os vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed mysels ostentimes upon the spot, at
my old castle behind the trees; saw mv old Spaniard,
Friday's sather, and the reprobate sailors, whom I lest
upon the island; nay, I sancied I talked with them, and
looked at them so steadily, though! was broad awake,
as at persons just besore mei aer. this I did till I osten
srighted mysels with the images my sancy represented to
me. One time in my steep I had the villainy os the
three pirate sailors so lively related to me, by the sirst
Spaniard and Friday's sather, that it was surprizing;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards; and that they set sire to the provisions
tiiey had iaid up, on purpose to distress and starve them i
things
things that I had never heard os, and that yet were all
os them true in sact. And it was so warm in my ima-
gination, and so realized to me, that to the hour I saw
them, I could not be persuaded, but that it was, or
would be true; also how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to
justice, tried them besore me, and ordered them all three
to be hanged. What there was really in this, shall be
seen in its place. For however I came to sorm such
things in my dream, and what secret converse os spirits
injected it, yet there was, I say, very much os it true;
I own that this dream, had nothing in it literally and
specisically true; but the general part was so true, the
base and villainous behaviour os these three hardened
rogues was inch, and had been so much worie than all
I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude
os the sact; and as I would afterwards have punished
them severely, so is I had hanged them all. I h?.d been
much in the right, stui mould have been justisied both
by the laws os God and man.
But to return to my story. In this kind os temper I
had lived some years; I had no enjoyment os my lise,
no plealant hovis, no agreeable diversion, but what had
something or other os tins in it; so that my wise, who
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, toid me very se-
riously one night, that me believed there was some lecret
powersul impulse os Providence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she sound
nothing hindered my going, but my bemg engaged to a
wise and children. She told me, that it was true sne
could not think os parting with me; but as she was as-
sured, that is she was dead it would be the sirst thing I
would do; so as it seemed to her, that the thing was
determined above, slie would not be the only obstruction,
sor, is I thought sit, and resolved to go—Here she sound
me veiy intent upon her words ; and that I looked very
earnestly at her; !b that it a little disordered her, and
slie stopped. I asiied her why she did not go on, and
say out what she was going to say. But I perceived her
heart
heart was too sull,, and some tears slood in her eyes.
'Speak out, my dear, says Ii ' are you willing I
« should go ?'—' No,' says she very affectionately, ' I
* am sar srom willing! But isyou are resolved to go,'
says she, ' rather than I will be the only hindrance, I
* will go with you; sor though I think it a preposte-
'rov.s thing sor one os your years, and in your condi-
'tion; yet is it muil be,' said she again weeping, ' I
* won't leave you! sor is it be os Heaven, ycu muss do
* it, there is no resisting it; and is Heaven makes it
* ycur duty to go, he will also make it mine to go with
* you, or otherwise dispose os me, that I may not obr
* struct it,'
This affectionate behaviour os my wise brought me
a little out os the vapours, and I began to consider what
I was doing. I corrected my wandering sancy, and
began to argue with mysels sedately, what business I
had, aster three-score years, and aster such a life os te-
dious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy
and easy a manner; I say, what business had I (o rush
into new hazards, and put mysels upon adventures, sit
only sor youth and poverty to run into?
With those thoughts, I considered my new engages
ments i that I had a wise, one child born, and my wise
then great with child os another, that I lnd all the
world could give me, and had no need to slek hazards
tor gain; that I was declining in years, and ought to
think rather os leaving what I had gained, than os seek-
ing to increase it; that as to what niy wise had said os
its being an impulse srom Heaven, and that it should be
my duty to go, I had no notion os that; so, aster
many o! these cogitations, I straggled with the power
.os my imagination, reasoned myscls out os it, as I be-
Jieve people may always do in like casts is they will;
and, in a word, I conquered it; composed myscls with
such arguments r.s occurred to my thoughts, and which
jny prtJent condition surnished me plentisully with;
and particularly, as the most effectual method, I re-
sosved to divert mysels with other things, and to en-
gage
gage in some business that might effectually prevent me
srom ar.y more excursions os this kind; sor I sound the
thoughts returned upon me chiesly when I was idle,
had nothing to do, or any thing ot moment immedi-
ately besore me.
To this purpose I bought a little sarm in the county
os Bedsord, and resolved to remove mysels th.ther. I
had a little convenient house upon it, a d the land about
it I sound was capable os great improvement, and that
it was manv ways suited to mv inclination, which de-
lighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and unprov-
ing os land ; and particularly, being an inland county,
I was removed srom conversing with, and things relat-
ing to the remote parts os the world.
In a word, I went down to my sarm, settled my sa-
mily, bought me ploughs, harrows, a car', waggon,
horses, cows, sheep; and, setting seriouMv io work, be-
came in one hals year a mere country gentseman; my
thoughts were entirely taken up in mansginr my ser-
vants, cultivating the ground; inclosing plantmg, &c.
and I lived, as I thought; the most agreeable lite that
nature was capable os directing, er that a man always
bred to missortunes was capable os recreating to.
I sanned upon my own land, I hi. no rent to pay,
was limited by no articles; I con!' pull up, or cut
down, as I pleased. What I planned was sor mysels;
and what I improved was sor my f imilv; and having
thus lest oss the thoughts os wandermg, I had not the
lead discomsort in any part os mv lise, as to this world.
Now I thought indeed, that I enjoved that middle state
os lise, which my sather so earnestlv recommended to
me. A kind os heavenly lise, something like what is
described by the poet upon the subject os a country lisei
Free srom vices, sree srom care,
Age has no pam, and youth no share.
But in the middle os all this selicitv, ore blow srom
unseen Providence unhinged me at once; and not only
made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but
drove me by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into
the
the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, bein?
born in my very blood, icon recovered its hold os me,
and, like the returns os a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible sorce upon me; so that nothing could
make any more impression on me. This blow'was the
loss os my wise!
It is not my business here to write an clegy upon my
wise, so give a character os her particular virtues,
and make my court to the sex by the slattery os
a suneral sermon. She was, in a sew words, the stay
os all my affairs, the centre os all my enterprizes; the
engine, that by her prudence, reduced me to that happy
compass I wn.s in, srom the most extravagant and ru-
inous pioiect that iluttcred in my head, as above; and
did more :o guide my rambling genius than a mother's
tears, a sather's instructions, a sriend's counsel, or all
my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in
1 ilening to her tears, and in being moved by her in-
t.'eaties, and to the last degree desosate and dislocated in
tiie world bv the loss os her.
When Ihe was gone, the world looked aukardly
round mei I was as much a stranger in it, in mv
thoughts, as I was hi the Brazils, when I sirst went on
shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assist-
ance os servants, as I was in my island. I knew nei-
ther what to do, or what not to do. I saw the world
busy round me, one part labouring sor bread, and the
other squandering it in vile excesses or empty pleasures;
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still sled
srom them; sor the men os pleasure were every day sur-
scited os their vices, and heaped up work sor sorrow and
repentance; and the men os labour spent their strength
in daily struggling sor bread, to maintain the vital
strength they laboured with; so living in a daily circu-
lation os sorrow, living but to work, rnd working but
to lite; as is daily-bread were the only end oi~ a weari-
some lise, and a wearisome lise the cn!y occasion os
daily-bread.
This put me in mind os the lise I lived in my king-
dom,
dom, the island; where I suffered no more corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more goats, be-
cause I had no more use sor them; where the money lay-
in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce the
savour to be looked upon in twenty years.
Ail these things, had I improved them as I ought to
have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to
me, would have taught me to search sarther than human
enjoyments sor a sull selicity, and that there was some-
thing which cersrinly was the reason and end os lise, su-
perior to rll these things, wiiich was either to be pos-
sessed, or at leak hoped sor on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship
without a pilot, that could only run asore the wind.
My thoughts ran all away again into the old affair; my
head was quite turned with the whimsies os soreign ad-
ventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements os
my sarm and my garden, my cattle and my samily,
which besore entirely possessed me, were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear,
or sood to one that hasno taste. In a word, I resolved
to leave off houseke ring, let my sarm, and return to
London. And in a sew months aster, I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneaiy as be-
sore; I had no relish to the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, os
whom it may be said, he is persectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one sarthing matter to the rest os
his kind whether he be dead or ahve. This also was
the thing, which os all circumstances os lise was the
most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an.
active lise; and I would osten say to mysels, " A state
"os idleness is the very dregs os lise!" And, indeed,
I thought I was much more iuitably employed, when X
was twenty-six days making a deal-board.
It was now the beginning os the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom, as I have observed besore, I had
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander os
a sliip, was come home srom a iliort voyage to Bilboa,
being
being the sirst he had made. He came to me, and tolj
me that some merchants os his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage sor them to the East-
Indies, and to China, as private traders. "And now,
"uncle," says he, " is you will go to lea with me,
"I'll engage to land vou upon your old habitation in
"the island, sor we are to touch at the Brazils."
Nothing can be a grea'er demonstration os a suture
state, and os the existence os an invisible world, than the
concurrence os lecend causes with the ideas os this,
which we sorm in our minds, persectly reserved, and not
communicated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how sar my distemper os
wand ring was returned upon me, and I knew nothing
os what he had in his thoughts to say; when that very
morning besore he tame to lee me, I had, in a great deal
os consusion os thought and revolving every part os my
circumstances in mv mind, come to this resolution, viz.
that I would po to Lisbon, and consult with my old iea-
captain; and so, is it was rational and practicable, I
wculd go and see the island again, and fee wbat was be-
come os my people there. I had pleased mysels also
with the thoughts os peopling the p'ace, and carrying in-
habitants srom hence, getting a patent sor the possession,
and I know not what; when, in the m ddle os all this,
in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project
os carrying me thither in his way to the East-Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and locking steadily at
him—" What devil," said I, " sent you on this un-
. " Lucky errand?" My nephew startled, as is he had
been srighted at sirst, but perceiving I was not much
. displeased with the proposal, he recovered himsels. "I
"hope it rr.ay not be an unlucky proposal, Sir," says
lie, " I dare say you would be pleased to see your new
"colony there, where you once reigned with more sc-
"licitv than most os your brother Monarchs in the
*' world."
In a word," the scheme hit so exactly with my
temper, that :s to say, with the prepossession I was
under,
tender, and of which I have faid fo much, that I told
him, in few words, if he agreed with the merchants^
I would go witn himi but I told him, I would not pro-
mife to go any farther than my own itland. "Why,
"Sir," favs he, " you don't want to be" left theie
"again, I hope?"—" Why," faid I, " can you not
"take me up again in your return?" He told me, it
would not be possible to do fo; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loaden
ship of fuch value, it being a month's fail out of his
way, and might be three or four. "Besides, Sir, if I
"should mifcarry," said he, "and not return at all,
"then you would be just reduced to the condition you
*' were in before."
This was Very rational; but we both found out a re-
medy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop ort
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and shipped
bn board the vessel, might, by the help of fome carpen-
ters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be put toge-
ther again in the island, and sinithed, sit to go to lea in
a few day9.
I was not long refolving; for indeed the importuni-
ties of my nephew joined in fo esfectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppofe me. On the other
hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody that concerned
themfelves so much for me, as to persuade me one way
or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow,
who earnestly remonstrated with me to confider my years,
roy eafy circumstances, and the needless hazaru ot a long
voyage; and, above all, my young children. But it
was all to no purpofe, I had an irrefittible defire to the
voyage; and I told her, I thought there was fomething
fo uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Pro-
vidence, if I should attempt to stay at home. After
this she ceafed her expostulations; and joined with me
not only in making provifion for my voyage, but alfo
in fettling my family-affairs in my abfence, and provid-
ing for the education of my children.
Voi.. II. 30. M In
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the es-
tate: I had in such a manner tor my children, and placed it
in such hands, that I was persectly easv and satissied they
would have justice done them, whatever might besalme;
as sor their education, I lest it wholly to my widow,
with a sussicient maintenance to hersels sor her care. All
which she richly deserved; sor no mother could have
taken more care in their education, or understood it bet-
ter; and as she lived till I. came home, I also lived to
thank her sor it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning os
January, 1694-5; and I, with my man Friday, went
on board, in the Downs, the 8th, having, tx-sides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable car-
go os all kinds os necessaiy things sor my colony,
which is I did not sind in a good condition, I resolved
to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I pur-
posed to place there as inhabitants, or at least, to set to
work there upon my own account while I staid, and ei-
ther to leave them there, or carry them sorward, a*s they
should appear willing; particularly, I carried two car-
penters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious sellow,
who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general me-
chanic, tor he was dextrous at making wheels, and
hand-mills to grind corn; was a good turner, and a
good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was pro-
per to sorm os earth, or wood; in a word, we called him
our "Jack os all trades."
With these I carried a taylor, who had ossered him-
sels to go passenger to the East-Indies with my ne-
phew, but asterwards consented to stay on our new plan-
tation, and proved a most necessary handy sellow, a$
could be desired, in many other employments besides
that os his trade; sor, as I observed besore, necessity
arms us against all dissiculties.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, sor I have not
kept an account os particulars, consisted os a sussicient
quantity os linen, and some thin English stuffs, sor
cloathing
cloathing the Spaniards that I expected to sind there;
and enough os them, as, by my calculation, might com-
sortably supply them sor leven years. Is I remember
right, the materials which I carried sor cloathing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things
as they could want sor weai ing, amounted to above 2 ool.
including some beds, bedding, and houshold-stuff, par-
ticularly kitchen-utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, &c. besides near iool. more in iron-work, nails,
tools os every kmd, staples, hooks, hinges, and every ne-
cessary thing I could think os.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, musquets and su-
sils, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity ot shot
os all sizes, three or tour tons os lead, and two pieces
os brass cannon; and because I knew not what time,
and what extremities I was providing sor, I carried an
hundred barrels os powder, besides [words and cutlasses,
and the iron part ot some pikes and halberts; so that,
in short, we had a large magazine os all sorts os stores;
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck
guns more than he wanted tor his ship, to leave behind,
is there was occasion; that, when they came there, we
might build a fort, and man it against all sorts os ene-
mies i and indeed I at sirst thought there would be need
enough os it all, and much more, is we hoped to main-
tain our possession os the island.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been
used to meet with; and theresore shall have the less oc-
casion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet, some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather,
happened on our sirst setting out, which made the voyage
longer than I expected it at sirst; and 1, who had never
made but one voyage, (viz. my sirst voyage to Guinea)
in which I might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at sirst designed, began to think the same ill
sate still attended me, and that I was born to be never
contented with my own shore, and yet to be always un-
sortunate at sea.
M i Con-
Contrary winds sirst drove us to the- northward, and
we were obliged to pui in at Galway, in Ireland, where
we lay wind-bound two and thirty-days; but we had
this satisiaction with the disaster, that provisions were
here exceedmg cheap, and in the utmost plenty; s6
that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's
stores, but rather added to them. Here also I took se.?
veral hogs, and two cows with their calves, which I re-
solved, is I had a good passage, to put ashore in my
island; but we sound occasion to dispose os them
otherwise.
We set out the 5th os February srom Ireland, and
had a very sair gale os wind sor some days. Accord-
ing to my remembrance, it might be about the 20th
os February, in the evening, late, when the mate, hav-
ing the watch, came into the round-house, and told us,
he saw a slam cs sire, and heard a gun sired; and while
he was telling us os it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all run out
'upsn the quarter-deck, where sor awhile we heard no-
ihingi but in a scw minutes we saw a very great light,
and found that there was some very terrible sire at a dis-
tance. Immediately we had recourse to our reckonings,
in which we all agreed, that there could be no land that
way in which the sire shewed itsels; no, not sor 5c0
leagues ; for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this, we con-
cluded it must be some ship on sire at sea; and as, by
o«r hearing the noise os guns just before, we concluded
rit could not be sar off, we stood directly towards it, and
were presently satissied we should discover it, because
the sarther we sailed, the greater the light appeared,
though the weather being hazy, we could not perceive
any thing but the light for awhile. In about hals an
hour's sailing, the wind being sair sor us, though not
much os it, and the weather clearing up a little, we
could plainly discern that it was a great ship on sire in
the middle os the sea. I was most senlibly touched with
this disaster, though not at all acquainted with the per-
sons engaged in it, I presently recollected my sormey
circumstanccsj
circumstances, in what condition I was when taken
up by the Portugueze captain; and how much more
deplorable the circumstances ot the poor creatures be-
longing to the ship must be, is they had no other ship in
company with them. Upon this, I immediately or-
dered that sive guns should be sired, one soon aster ano
ther, that, is possible, we might give notice to them that
there was help sor them at hand, and that they might en-
deavour to save themselves in their boat; sor though we
could see the slame in the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing os us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting sor day-light; when on a
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason to
expect it, the strip blew up in the air, and immediately
(that is to say, in a sew minutes) all the sire was out;
that is to say, the rest os the ship sunk. This was
terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, sor the sake os
the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either ail de-
stroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boats in the middle os the ocean, which, at presentsrom
its being dark, I could not see; however, to direct them
as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all
the parts os the ship where we could, and which we had
Ian thorns sor, and kept siring guns all the night long; let-
ting them know by this, that there was a ship not sar uss.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help os our perspective-glasses;
and sound there were two os them, both thronged with
people, and deep in the water. We perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our
ship, and did the utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know
we saw them, and hung a wait out, as a signal tor them
to ccrac on board ;- and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. In a little more than hals an hour,
we came up with them; and, in a woi d, took them all
in, being no less than sixty-sour men, women, and chil-
dren; sor there were a great many passengers.
M 3 Upon
Upon the whole, we sound itwasaFrenchmerchant-shiu
os 3cc tons, homeward-bound srom Quebec; in the river
os Canada. The master gave us a long account os the
distress os his ship, how the sire began in the steerage,
b}' the negligence os the steersman; but, on his crying
out foi'htlp, was, as every body thought, entireiy put
out. But they soon found, that some sparks os the sirst
sire had got into some part os the ship, lo disssicult to
come.at, that they could not esscctually quench it; and
asterwards getting in between the timbers, and within
the ceiling os the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
They had no more to do then, but to get into their
boat6, which to their great comsort, were pretty large;
being their long-boat, and a. great shallop, besides a
small skiss, which was os no great service to them, other
than to get some sresh water and provisions into her, aster
they had secured themselves srom the sire. They had
indeed small hope os their lives by getting into these
boats at that distance srom any land; only, as they justly
said, that they were escaped srom the fire, and had a pos-
sibility that some ship might happen to be at sea and
might take them in. They had sails, oars, and a com-
pass, and were preparing to make the best os their way
to Newsoundland, the wind blowing pretty sair; sor it
blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They had as much
provision artl water, as, with sparing it so as to be
pearly starving, might support them about twelve days;
in which, is they had no bad weather, and no contrary
winds, the captain laid, he hoped he might get to the
Banks os Newsoundland, and might perhaps take some
sish to sustain them till they might go on shore. But
there were so many chances against them in all these
cafes; such a? storms to overset and sounder them;
rains and cold to benumb and perish their limbsi con-
trary winds to keep them out and starve them;
that it must have bee.i next to miraculous is they
nail escaped.
In
• In the midst ot" these consultations, every one being
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain with tears in
his eyes told me, they were on a sudden surprized with
the joy os hearing a gun sire, and aster that sour more;
these were the sive guns which I caused to be sired at
first seeing the light; this revived their hearts, and
gave them the notice, which, as above, I designed it
Ihould, viz. that there was a ship at hand sor their
help.
It was upon the hearing os these guns that they took
down their masts and sails; and the sound coming srom
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some
time aster this, hearing no more guns, they sired three
mufquets, one, a considerable while aster another; but
these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.
Some time aster that again, they were still more agree-
ably surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the
guns, which, as I have said, I caused to be sired all thy
rest os the night; this set them to work with their oars
to keep their boats a-head, at least that we might the
sooner come up with them; and at last, to their inex-
pressible joy, they sound we saw them.
It is impossible sor me to express the several ges-
tures, the st;range extasies, the variety os postures,
which these poor delivered people run into, to express
the joy os their souls at so unexpected a deliverance;
gries and fear are easily deseribed; sighs, tears, groans,
and a very sew motions os head and hands, make up
the sum os its variety; but an excess os joy, a surprize
os joy, has a thousand extravagancies in it; there
were some in tears, some raging and tearing them-
selves, as is they had been in the greatest agonies os
soirowi some stark raving and downright lunatic;
some ran about the ship stamping with their seet, others
wringing their hands; some were dancing, several sing-
ing, some laughing, more crying; many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning, and ready to saint; and a sew were
crossing themselves, and giving God thanks.
I would
I would not wrong them neither; there might be
many that were thankful asterward; but the passion
was too strong tor them at sirst, and they were not able
to master iti they were thrown into extasies and a kind
os srenzv, and so there were but a very sew who were
composed -anil serious in their joy.
Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it,
srom the particular circumstance os the nation they be-
longed to i I mean, the French, whose temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
ami their spirits more sluid, than os other nations. I
am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but
nothing I had ever seen besore came up to it; the exta-
sies poor Friday, my trusty savage was in, when he sound
his rather in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the
surprize ot the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered srom the two villains that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
any where else in my lise.
It is sarther observeable, that these extravagancies
did not shew themselves in that disserent manner I have
mentioned, in different persons only; but all the variety
would appear in a short succession os moments in one
and tht same person. A man that we saw this minute
dumb, and, as it were, stupid and consounded, should
the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic;
and the next moment tearing his hair, or pulling his
cloaths to pieces, and stamping them under his feet like
a madman; a sew minutes aster that, we should have
him all in tears, then sick, then swooningi and had not
immediate help been had, would, in a sew moments
more, have been dead i and thus it was, not with one
or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest part os
them; and, ir I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to bleed above tiiirty os them.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man, and the other a young man; and that which
was strangest was, that.the oldest man was the worst.
2. As
As soon as he set his soot on board our ship, and sa\V
himsels sase, he dropped down stone-dead, to all ap-
pearance; not the least sign os lisc could be perceived i;i
him; our surgeon immediately applied proper reme-
dies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead; and at length he opened
a vein in his arm, having sirst chased and rubbed the
part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this
the blood, which only dropped at sirst, slowed something
sreely; in three minutes aster the man opened his eyes;
and about a quarter os an hour aster that he spoke,
grew better, and in a little time quite welli aster the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was
persectly well, took a dram os cordial, which the for*
geon gave him, and was, what we call come to himsels.
About a quarter os "an hour aster this, they came run-
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a
French woman that had sainted, and told him the priest
was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve
the change os his circumstances in his mind, and this
put him into an extasy os joyi his spirits whirled about
saster than the vessels could convey them; the blood
grew hot and severish i and the man was as sit sor Bed-
lam as any creature that ever was in iti the surgeon
would not bleed him again in that condition, bat gave
him something to doze and put him to steep; which,
aster some time operated upon him, and he waked next
rnorning persectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved himsels with great com-
mand os his passion, and was really an example os a
serious well-governed mind. At his sirst coming on,
board the ship, he threw himsels slat ca his sace, prottrat-
ing himsels in thanksulness sor his deliverancei, in which'
I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he had been a swoon; but he spake calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks sor his,
deliverancei begged me to leave him a sew moments,
and that, next to his Maker^ he would give me
thanks also,
| was
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him i and not only
left him-, but kept others srom interrupting him also. He
continued in that posture about three minutes, or a little
more, aiter I lest him i then came to me, as he had said
he woul.i, and with a great deal os serioushess and asscc-
tion, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, who had
under God, given him and so manymiserable creatures
their lives. I told him, I had no cause to move him to
thank God sor it rather than me, ser I had seen that he
had done that already i but I added, that it was nothing
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and
that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to
God, who had blessed us so sar as to make us the instru-
ments ot his mercy to so many os his creatures.
After this, the young priest applied himsels to his
country-solks, laboured to compose them i persuaded,
;ntreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his ut-
most to keep them within the exercise os their reasoni
and with some he had success, though others were, sor a
time, out os all government os themselves.
I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whote hands it may sall,
ia the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies os
their passionsi sor is an excess os joy can carry men out
to luch a length beyond the reach os their reason, what
will not the extravagancies os anger, rage, and a pro-
voked mind carry us to! And, indeed, here I saw rea-
son sor keeping an extraordinary watch over our passions
os every kind, as well thole os joy and satissaction, as
those ot sorrow and anger.
We were something disordered by these extravagan-
cies among our new guests sor the sirst day i but when
they had retired to lodgings provided sor them as well
as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartilv, as
most os them did, being satigued and srightened, they
were quite another sort os people the next day.
Nothmg os good manners, or civil acknowledge-
ments sor the kindness shewn them, was wanting i the
French, it is known, are naturally apt enough to ex-
ceed
eeed that way. The captain and one os the priests
came to me the next davi and, desiring to speak with
me and my nephew, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and sirst they told us, that,
as we had saved their lives, so all they had was little
enough as a return to us sor the kindness received.
The captain said, they had saved some money, and some
things os value in their boats, catched hastily out os the
slames; and is we would accept it, they were ordered
to make an osser os it all to us; they only desired to be
set on shore somewhere in our way, where, is possible,
they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was sor accepting their money at the sirst
word, and considering what to do with them asterwards i
but I over-ruled him in that part, sor I knew what it
was to be set on more in a strange country; and is the
Portugal captain, that took me up at sea, had served me
so, and took all I had sor my deliverance, I must have
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I
had been at Barbary, the being sold to a Mahometan
only excepted; and perhaps a Portugueze is not a much
better master than a Turk, ir not, in some cases, a.
much worse.
I theresore told the French captain, that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true; but that it was
cur duty to do so, as we were sellow-creatures, and as
we would desire to be so delivered it we were in the
like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
sor them but what we believed they would have done
sor us, is we had been in their case anil they in curs;
but that we took them up to serve them, not to plunder
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing to
take that little srom them which they had laved out os
the sire, and then set them on shore and leave them;
sor this would be sirst to lave them srom death, and then
kill them ourselves; save them srom drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and theresore I would
not let the least thing be taken srom them. As to fet-
tling them, on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an ex-
ceeding
teeding great dissiculty to us, sor the ship was bound to
the East-Indies; and though we were driven out os our
course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps
Was directed by Heaven on purpose sor their deliverance^
yet it was impotsible sor us wilsully to change our voy-
age on this particular accounti nor could my nephew)
the captain, answer it to the sreighters, with whom he
was under charter party to pursue his voyage by the
way ot Brazil; and all I knew he could do sor them
was, to put ourselves in the way os meeting with other
ships homeward-bound srom the West-Indies, and get
them passage, is possible, to England or Fiance.
The sirst part os the proposal was so generous and
kind, that they could not but be very thanksul sor it;
but they were in a great consternation, especially the pas-
sengers, at the notion os being carried away to the East
Indies. They then intreated me, that seeingl wasdriven
so sar to the westward besore I met with them, I would
at least keep on the same course to the Banks os New-
soundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
ship or stoop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, srom whence they came;
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part, and theresore I was inclined to agree to it; sor in-
deed, I considered, that to cany this whole company to
the East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity
to the poor people, but would be ruining our whole
voyage by devouring all our i rovisions; so I thought
it no breach os charter-party, but what an Unsoreseen'
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which
no one could say we were to blame i sor the.laws os
God and nature would have sorbid that we mould resuse
to take up two boats sull os people in such a distressed
Conditioni and the nature os the thing, as well respect-
ing ourlelves as the poor people, obliged us to lee them
on shore, somewhere or other for their deliverancei so I
consented that we should carry them to Newsoundland,
is wir.d and weather would permiti and, is not, that I
would cany them to Martinico, in the West-Indies.
The
The wind continued srelh easterly, but the weather
pretty goodi and as it had blowed continually in the
points between N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed
isveral opportunities os sending them to Francei sor we
rret several ships bound to Europe, whereos two were
French, srom St. Christopher's; but they had been so
letig beating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no passengers, sor sear os wanting provisions sor the
voyr.ge, as well sor themselves as sor those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week aster this, that we made the Banks os Newsound,
land; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French'
pecple oit board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them on shore, and asterwards to carry them to
Frrmce, is they could get provision to victual themselves
with. When I say all the French went on shore, I
si.oi Id remember, that the young priest I speke os,
hearing we were bound to the East-Indies, desired to go
the voyage with us, and to be let on more on the ccaii cs
Coromandeli I readily agreed to that; sor I wonder-
sully likeTd the m?n, and hp.d very good reason, as
will appear asterwards; also sour os the seamen
entered themselves in our ship, and proved very use-
sul sellows.
From hence we directed our course sor the West-In-
dies, steering away S. and S. by E. sor about twenty
days together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when
we met with another subject sor our humanity to work
uj on, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude os twenty-seven degrees, sive
minutes N. aniHthe 19th day os March, 1694-5, when
we espied a sail, our course S. E. and by S. We soon
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to
us; but could not at sirst know what to rrske os her,
till aster coming a little nearer, we sound she had lost
her main-top-mast, sore-mast, and boltsprit; and pre-
sently she sired a gun as a signal os distress; the weather
was pretty good, wind at N. N. W. a siesh ga'e, and
v.e soon came to speak with her.
Vol. H. 30. N We
We sound her a ship os Bristol, bound home ssorrt
Barbadoes, but had been blown out ot' the road at Bar-
badoes, a'sew days besore she was ready to sail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chies mate
were both gone on shore; so that, beside the terror os
the storm, they were but in an indisscrent case sor good
artists to bring the ship home; they had been already
nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm aster the hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out os their knowledge to the westward, and
in which they lost their masts, as above. They told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but
were driven away again to the south-east, by a strong
gale os wind at N. N.W. the same that blew now, and
having no sails to work the ship with, but a main-course
and a kind os square sail upon a jury-soremast, which
they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, but
were endeavouring to stand away sor the Canaries.
But that which was worst os all was, that they were
almost starved sor want os provisions; besides the sa-
tigues they had undergone, their bread and slesh was
quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship, and
had had none sor eleven days; the only relies they had
was, their water was not all spent, and they had about
hals a barrel os slour lest; they had sugar enough ; some
succades or sweetmeats they had at sirst, but they were
devoured; and they had seven casks os rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid ser-
vant, on board, who were going passengers, and think-
ing the ship was ready to sa 1, unhappily came on board
the evening besore the hurricane begat]; and, having
no provisions os their own lest, they were in a morede-
plorable condition than the rest; sor the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, hud na
compassion, we may be sure, sor the poor passengers;
and they were indeed, in suel) a condition, that tiieir
misery is very hard to describe.
I had, perhaps, not known this part, is my curio-
sity had not led me, the weather being sair, and the
wind
wind abated, to go on board the ship. The second
mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship; and he told me, indeed, that
they had three passengers in the great cabin, and that
thev were in a deplorable condition i 'Nay (says he) I
• believe they are dead, sor I have heard nothing os them
• sor above two days ; and I was afraid to enquire aster
'them, sor I had nothing to relieve them with.'
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what
relies we could spare; and, indeed, I had so sar over-
ruled things with my nephew, thV I would have vic-
tualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia, or
any part ot the coast os America, to have supplied our-
selves; but there was no necessity tor that.
But now they were in a new danger; sor they were
asraid os eating too much, even os that little we gave
them. The mare or commander brought six men with
him in this little boat; but these poor wretches looked
like skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly sit
to their oarsi the mate himsels was very ill, and hals-
starved; sor he declared he had reserved nothing srom
the men, and went share and share alike with them in
every bit they eat.
I cautioned him to eat sparingl)', but set meat be-
sore him immediately, and he had not eaten three
mouthsuls besore he began to be sick and out os or-
der; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him
up something with some broth, which he said would
be to him both sbod and physic; and aster he had
taken it, he grew betteri in the mean time, I sorgot
not the men; I ordered victuals to be given them, and
the poor creatures rather devoured than eat it; they
were so exceeding hungry! that they were in a manner
ravenous, and had no command os themselves; and two
os them cat with so much greediness, that they were in
danger os their lives the next morning.
The sight os these people's distress was very moving
tome, and brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect
os at mv sirst coming on sbore in my island, where I
3 N z had
had not the least mouthful of food, or any hopes of
procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had of
being made the food of .other creatures. But all the
while the mate was thus relating to me the miferable
(Condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the story he had told me of the three
poor creatures in the great cabini viz. the mother, her
ion, and the maid-fervant, whom he had heard nothirg
of for two or three days; and whom he feemed to con-
fefs they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being fo great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all, and that therefore
they mutt be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps,
on the sloor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called
captain, on board with his men, to refresh them, fo I
alfo forgot not the starving crew that were left on
board, but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and with my mate and twelve men to carry
them a feck of bread, and four or sive pieces of beet'
to boil. Our furgeon charged the men to caufe the
meat to be boiled while they staid, and to keep guard
in thecook.room, so prevent the men's taking it to eat
jt raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was weil
boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a
timei and by this caution he preferved the men, who
would otherwife have killed themfelves with that very
tood that was given them on purpofe to fave their lives.
At the fame time, I ordered the mate to go into the
great cabin, and lee in what condition the poor passen-
gers were; and if they were alive, to comfort them,
and give them what refreshment was proper, and the
Jiirgeon gave him a large pitcher of fome of the pre-
pared broth which he had given the mate that was on
board, and which he did not question would restore them
gradually.
I was now fatissied with thisi but, as I faid above,
having a great mind to see the scene of mifery, which I
foiew the ship itfelf would prefent me with, in a more
lively
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took
the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me,
and went myfelf a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men onboard almost in a tumult to
get the victuals cut of the boiler before it was ready.
But my mate obferved his order, and kept a good guard
at the cook-room door; and the man he placed there,
after using all pofsible perfuasion to have patience, kept
them off by forcei however, lie caufed fome bifcuit-
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened them with
the liquor of the meat, which they call breivis, and gave
them every one one, to stay their stomachsi and tpld
them, it was for their own fasety that he was obliged
to give them but little at a time. But it was all in
vain; and had I not come on board, and their own
commander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats alfo os giving them no mere, I believe
they would have broke into my cook-room by force,
and tore the meat out of the surnace; for words, indeed,
are of very fmall force to an hungry belly. However,
we pacisied them, and sed them gradually and cauti-
ously for the sirst time, and the next time gave them
more, and at last silled their bellies, and the men did
well enough.
But the mifery of the poor passengers in the cabin
was of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as,
sirst, the siiip's company had fo little sor themfelves, it
was but too true, that they had at sirst kept them very
low, and at last totally neglected them; so that forsix or
feven days, it might be faid, they really had no food at
all, and for several days before very little.
The poor mother who, as the sirst mate reported, was
a woman of good fenfe and good breeding, had fpared
all slie could get fo affectionately for her son, that at
last she entirely funk under it; and when the mate of
our fhip went in, me fat upon the sloor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head funk in between
her shoulders, like a corpfe though not quite dead. My
M 3 mate
mate laid all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She
opened her lips, and listed up one hand, but could nor
sp;aki yet she understood what he said, and made signs
to him, intimating, that it was too late sor her; hut
pointed to her child, as is she would have said, they
should take care os him.
However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
with the sight, endeavoured to get some os the broth
into her mouth; and as he said, got two or three spoon-
suls down, though I question whether he could be sure
os it or noti but it was too late, and Ihe died the
same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price os his
most asscctionate mother's lise, was not so sar gone ; yet
lie lay in a cabin-bed, as one stretched out, with hardly
'any lise lest in himi he had a piece os an old glove in
his mouth, having eaten up the rest os it; however, be-
ing young, and having more strength than his mother,
the mate got something down his throat, and he began
sensibly to revive; though by giving him, some time as-
ter, but two or three spoonsuls extraordinary, he was
very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all
along upon the deck hard by her mistress, and just like
one that had sallen down with an apoplexy, and strug-
gled sor lisei her limbs were distorted; one os her hands
was clasped round the srame os one chair, and she griped
it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go;
her other arm layover her head, and her seet lay both
together, let sast against the srame os the cabin-table;
in short she lay just like one in the last agonies os death,
and yet she was alive too.
The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrissied with the thoughts os death, but, as the
men told us asterwards, was broken-hearted sor her
mistress, whom slie saw dying two or three days besore,
.and whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; sor
when
when our surgecn, who was a man os very great know-
ledge and experience, had with great application reco-
vered her as to lise, he had her upon his hand as to
her senses; sor she was little less than distracted sor a
considerable time aster.
Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be de-
sired to-consider, that visits at sea are not like a journey
into the country, where sometimes people stay a week
or a sortnight at a place. Our business was to relieve
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by sor them; and
though they were willing to steer the same course with
us sor some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep
pace with a ship that had no masts. However, as their
captain begged os us to help him to set up a main-top-
mast, and a kind os top-mast to his jury-sore-mast, we
did, as it were, lie by him sor three or sour days; and
then having given him sive barrels os bees and pork,
two hogsheads os biscuit, and a proportion os peas,
flour, and what other things we could spare; and tak.
ing three casks os sugar, and some rum, and some pieces
os eight os them sor satissaction, we lest them; taking
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the
youth and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years os age, a
pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth; greatly
dejected with the loss os his mother, and, as it seems,
had lost his sather but a sew months besore at Barba-
does. He begged os the surgeon to speak to me, to
take him out ot the ship; sor, he said, the cruel sellows
had murdered his mother; and indeed, so they had, that
is to say, passively; sor they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her lise, though it had been just to keep her
alive. But hunger knows no sriend, no relation, no
justice, no right; and theresore is remorieless, and ca-
pable os no compassion.
The surgeon told him how sar we were going, and that
it would cany him "away srom all his sriends, and put
him pei haps, in as bad circumstances almost as we sound
them
them, that is to say, starving in the world. He sair!,
it mattered not whither he went, it he was but deli-
vered srom the terrible crew that he was amongi that
the captain (by which he meant me, sor he could know-
nothing os my nephew) had saved his lise, and he was
sure would not hurt him, and as sor the maid, he was
sure, is she came to hersels, she would be very thanksul
sor it, let us carrv them whither we would. The sur-
geon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them on board, with all their
goods, except eleven hogsheads os sugar, which could
not be removed or come at; and as the youth had a bill
os lading sor them, I made his commander sign a writ-
ing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bristol,
to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote
to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the de-
ceased widow,which I suppose was not done ; sor I could
never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as
is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a con-
dition, and so sar srom any land, that I am os opinion,
the sirst storm she met with asterwards slie might soun-
der in the lea; sor she was leaky, and had damage in
her hold when I met with her.
I was now in the latitude os 19 degrees 32 minutes,
and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather,
though at sirst the winds had been contrary. I shall not
trouble my readers with the little incidents os wind, wea-
ther, currents, &c. on the rest os our voyage; but short-
ening my storv sor the sake os what is to sollow, shall
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on
the iothos April, 1695. It was with no small d.ssi-
culty that I sound the piace; tor as I came to it, and
went srom it besore, on the south and east-side os the
island, as coming srom the Brazils, so now coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart sor
the coast, nor any land-mark, I did not know it when I
saw it, or know whether I saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on s'.
ycral
veral islands in the mouth os the great River Oroonoque,
but nene sor my purpose; only this I learned by my
coasting the shore, that I was under one great mistake
besore, viz. that the continent, which I thought I saw
srom the island I lived in was really no continent,.but 1
long island, or rather a ridge os islands, reaching srom
one to the other side os the extended mouth os that great
riveri and that the savages who came to my island,
were not properly thole which we call Caribbees, but
islanders, and other barbarians os the same kind, who
inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.
In short, I visited several os the islands to no purposes
some 1 sound weie inhabited, and some were not. On
one os them I sound some Spaniards, and thought they
had lived there; but, speaking with them, sound they
had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they
came thither to make salt, and catch pearl mussels is they
could, but they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which
lay sai ther north, in the latitude os 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting srom one island to another, sometimes
with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
(which we had sound a convenient boat, and theresore
kept her with their very good will) at length I came
sair on the south-side os my island, and I presently knew
the very countenance os the place; so I brought the
ship sase to an anchor, broadside with the little creek
where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called sor Friday, and
asked him it he knew where he was. He looked about a
little, and presently clapping his hands, cried—' O yes!
'O there! 6 yes! O there!' pointing to our old habi-
tation, and sell a dancing and capering like a mad sel-
low, and I had much ado to keep him srom jumping
into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
'Well, Friday, (said I) do you think we shall sind
* any body here or no? And what do you think, shall
'we see your sather?' The sellow stood mute as a
stock a good while; but when I named his sather, the
poor affectionate creature looked dejected; and I could
see
see the tears ruii down his sace very plentisully. 'What
* is the matter, Friday? (laid I) are you troubled be-
'cause you may lie your father ?'—'No, no, (says he
shaking his head) no see him more, no ever mere see
* again.—' Why so (said I) Friday? How do you
* know that?—(O no! O no! say Friday) he long ago
* die; long ago, he much old man.—Well, well (said
I) Friday you don't know. But shall we see any one
* else then?' The scllow, it seems, had better eyes
than I, and he pointed just to the hill above my old
house, and though we lay hall a league oss, he cried
out—' Me see! me see! yes, yes, me see much man
there, and there, and there.' I looked, but I could see
nobody, no, not with a perspective-glass; which was,
I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for the
scllow was right, as I sound upon enquiry the next day,
and there were sive or six men altogether stood to look
at the ship, not knowing what to think os us.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and sired three
guns, to give them notice we were sriends; and about
nais a quarter os an hour aster, we perceived a smoke
rile srom the side os the creek; so I immediately or-
dered a boat out, taking Friday with me;'and, hang-
ing out a white slag, or a slag os trace, I went directly
en shore, taking with me the young sriar I mentioned,
to whom I had told the whole story os my living
there, and the manner os it, and every particular, both
os mysels and thole I left there; and who was, on that
account, extremely desirous to go with me. We had
besides about sixteen men very well armed, is we had
sound any new guest there which we did not know os;
but we had no need os weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide os slood, near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek, and the
sirst man I sixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, and whom I knew by his sace per-
scctly well; a:i to his habit, I shall describe it aster-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at sirst but my-
sels
sels, but there was no keeping Friday in the boat; ser
the assectionate creature had spied his sather at a dis-
tance, a good way oss os the Spaniards, where indeed I
saw nothing os him; and, is they had not let him go on
shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He was no
sooner on. shore, but he slew away to his sather like an
arrow out os a bow. It would have made any man
fiied tears, in spite os the sirmest resolution, to have seen
tiie sirst transports os this poor fellow's joy when he
came to his sather; how he embraced him, kissed him,
stroaked his sace, took him up in his arms, set him
down upon a tree, and laid down by him; then stood
and locked at him, as any one would look at a strange
picture, sor a quarter os an hour together; then laid
down upon the ground, and'streaked his legs, and kissed
them, and then got up again, and stared at himi one
v.'ouldhave thought the sellow bewitched. But it would
have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his pas-
sion ran out another way. In the morning he walked
along the shore, to-and-again, with his sather, several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as is he had
been a lady; and every now and then would come to
setch something cr other sor him to the boat, either a
lump os sugar, or a dram, a biscuit, cr something or
other that was good. In the asternoon his sollies ran
another way; sor then he would set the old man down
upon the ground, and dance about him, and made a
thousand antick pestures and gestures; and all the
while he did t|iis, he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another os his travels, and os
what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In
short, is the iame silial affection was to be sound in Chris-
tians to their parents, in our parts os the world, one
would be tempted to lay, there hardly would have bet 11
anv need ot the sisth commandment.
But this is a digression. I return to my landing.
It would be endless to take notice os all the ceremonies
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The
this Spaniard, whom as I (bid, I knew very well, was
he
he whose lise I saved. He came towards the boat, at-
tended by one more, carrying a slag os truce alii); and
he did" not only not know me at sirst, but lie had no
thoughts, no notion os its being me that was come,
till I ipoke to him. * Sigr.ior (iaid I), in Portug;ueze
'do you not know me?' At which he spoke not a
word; but, giving his inusquet to the man that was
with him, extended his arms, ar.d saying something in
Spanish, that I did not persectly hear, came sorward,
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcuseable not
to know that sace again, that he had once seen, as os an
angel srom heaven, lent to save his lise. He said abun-
dance os very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the person
that attended him, bade him go and call out his com-
redes. He then asked me, is I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession os my
own house again, and where I should see there had
been but mean improvements. So I walked along with
him; but alas! I could no more sind the place again,
than is I had never been there; sor they had planted so
many trees, and placed them in luch a posture, so thick
and close to one another, in ten years time they were
grown so big, that in short, the place was inaccessible
except by such windings and blind ways as they them-
selves only who made them could sind.
I asked them what put them upon all these sortisica-
tions. He told me, I would say there was need enough os
it, when they had given an account how they had passed
their time since their arriving in the istand, especially
aster they had the missortune to sind that I was gone.
He told me he could not but have some pleasure in my
good fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good
"iip, and to my satissaction ; and that he had ostentimes a
strong persuasion, that one time or other he should sec
me again. But nothing that ever besel him in his lise,
he laid, was so surprizing and afflicting to him at sirst,
as the disappointment he was under when he came back
to the island, and sound I was not there.
3 As
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that-
were lest behind, and os whom, he iaid, he had a long
story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought themselves
much better among the savages, only that there number
was so small. 'And,' says he, ' had they been strong
'enough, we had been all song ago in purgatory!' And
with that lie crosstd hunsels upon the breast. 'But,
'Sir,' says he, ' I hope you will not be displeadd,
'when I shall tell you how, sorced by necessity, we were
• obliged, sor our own preservation, to disarm them,
'and make them our subjects, who would not be coi:-
'tent, with being moderately our masters, but would
'be our murderers.' I answered, I was greatly
asraid os it when I lest them there; and nothing trou-
bled me at my parting srom the ithnd, but that they
were not come back, that I might have put them in
possession os every thing sirst, and lest the others in a
state os subjection, as they deservedi but is they hi'.d
reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be very
sar srom sinding any sault with it; sor I knew they
were" a parcel os resractory ungovernable villains., and
were sit sor any manner os mischies.
While I was saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, and with .him eleven men more. In the
dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what
nation they were os; but he made all clear both to then}
and to me. First, he turned to me, and pointing to
them, said—' These, Sir, are some os them os the gen-
* tlemen who owe their lives to you.' And then turn-
ing to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who
I was; upon which they all came up one by one, not
as is they had been sailors and ordinary sellows, and the
like,, but really, as is they had been ambassadors or no-
blemen, and I a monarch or a great conqueror. Their
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteous,
and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which
very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than J, that I scarce kneWliow to
Vol. II. 30. O receive
receive their civilities, much less how to return them
in kind..
The history os their coming to, and conduct in the
island, aster my going away, is so remarkable, and has
so many incidents, which the sormer part os my relation
will help to understand, and which will, in most os the
particulars, reser to that account I have already given
that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the
leading os those that come aster me.
I shall no longer protract the story with a relation in
the sirst person, which will put me to theexpence osten
thousand/aid Vs, a.\\&said he's, and be told me's, and/
told bim'j, and the like; but I shall collect the sacts his-
torically, as near as I can gather them out os my me-
mory srom what they related to me, and srom what I
met with in my conversing with them, and with the
place.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as
I can, I must go back to the circumstances in which I
lest the island, and which the persons were in os whom
I am to speak. At sirst it is necessary to repeat, that I
had sent away Friday's sather and the Spaniard, the two
whose lives I had rescued srom the savages ; I say, I had
sent them away in a large canoe to the main (as I then
thought it) to sctch over the Spaniards companions
whom he had lest behind him, in order to save them srom
the like calamity that he had been in; and in order to
succour them sor the .present, and that, is potsible, we
might together sind some way sor our deliverance as-
terwards.
When I sent them away I had no visible appearance
os, or the least room to hope sor, my own deliverance,
any more- than I had twenty years besore; much less
had I any soreknowledge os what aster happened; I mean
os an English ship coming ashore there to setch them
off; and is could not but be a very great surprize to
them, when they came back, not or.lv to sind that I was
gone, but to sind three strangers lest or. the s'pot, pos-
sssted
fcssed os all that I had left behind me, which would
otherwise have been their own.
The sirs! thing, however, which I enquired into, that
I might begin where I lest oss, was os their own part;
and I desired he would give me a particular account os
his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when
I sent him to setch them over. He told me there was
little variety in that part; sor nothing remarkable hap-
pened to them 011 the way, they having very calm wea-
ther and a smoofh iea; sor his countrymen, it could
not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to
sce himi (it seems he was the principal man among them,
the captain os the vessel they had been shipwrecked in
having been dead some time.) They were, he said, the
more surprized to see him, because they knew he was
sallen into the hands os savages, who, they were satis-
lied, would devour him, as they did all the reft os their
prisoners i that when lie told them the story os his de-
liverance, and in what manner he was surnished sor car-
rying them away, it was like a dream to them; and
their astonishment, they said, was something like that
os Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was,
and related the story os his exaltation in Pharaoh's court.
But when he shewed them the arms, the powder, the
ball, and the provisions that he brought them sor their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves,
took a just share os the joy os their deliverance, and im-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
Their sirst business was to get canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
part os it, but to trespass upon their sriendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes or ptriagnas, on pre-
tence os going out a sishing or sor pleasure.
In these they came away the next morning. It
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, sor
they had no baggage, neither cloaths nor provisions,
nor any thing in the world but what they had on them,
-and a sew roots to eat, os which they used to make
their bread.
O a They
They were in nil three weeks abent; ami in that
time, unluckily sor them, I had the occasion offered tor
mv escape, as I mentioned besore, and to get off from
the island; leaving three os the most unpudent, harden-
ed, ungovernable, disagreeable villains, behind me, that
any man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniard's
great gries and disappointment, you maybe lure.
The only just thing the rogues did, was that when
the Spaniards came on sliore, they gave my letter to
them, and gave them provisions and other relies, as I
had ordered them to do; aliothey gave them the long
paper os directions, which I had lest with them, con-
tain.ng the particular methods which I took sor ma-
naging every part os my lise there; the way I
baked my bread, bred up my tame goats and planted
my corn'; howl cured my grapes, made my pots, and,
in a word, every thing I did; all this being written
down, they gave to the Spaniards, two os whom under-
stood English well enough; nor did thev resuse to ac-
commodate the Spaniards with any thing else, sor they
agreed very well sor some time; they gave them an
equal admiilion into the house or cave, and they began
to live very sociably; and the head Spaniard, who .had
ieen pretty much os my method, and Friday's sather
together, managed all their affairs; sor, as sor the
Englishmen) they did nothing but ramble about the
jiland, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when they
came home at night the Spaniards provided their suppers
sor them.
The Spaniards would have been satissied with this,
would the others but have let them alone; which, how-
-ever, they could not sind in their hearts to do long,
but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themielves, and would not let others eat neither. The
differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial,"and
iiicli as are not worth relating; but at last it broke out
jntoopen wary.and it began with all the rudeness and
ir.orence that can be unagined, without reason, with-
out provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to com-
mon
mon fense; and though it is true, the sirst relation or' it
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the accufers, yet when I came to examine the fellows,
they could not deny a word os it.
But before I cofne to the particulars of this part, I
must fupply a defect in my former relation; and this
was, that I forgot to fet down among the rest, that,
just as iwe were weighing anchor to fet fail, there hap-
pened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was
afraid once would turn to a fecond mutiny; nor was it
appeafed, till the captain, rouzing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and
making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners,
he laid them in irons; and as they had been active in
the former diforders, and let fall ibme dangerous words
the second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there foi mutinv and
.runningaway with the ship.
This it feems, though the captian did not intend to do
it, flighted lbme other men in the ship; and fome of
them had put it into the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to seme Englisti port, and that then they
mould be all put into a gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired that 1, who still
pasted for a great man among them, should go down
with the mare, and fatisfy the men, and tell them, that'
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
riie voyage, all they had done for the'time past should be
pardoned. So I went; and aster pasting my honour's
word to them, they appeared eaiy; and the more fo,
when I caused the two mew, who had been laid in irons,
to be releafed and sorgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us tp an anchor forthat
night, the wind also falling calm. Ne*t morning, we
found that our two men who had been laid in irons, had'
stole each of them a musket, and ibme other weapon*;
what powder or shot they had, we knew not; and had
taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up,
and run away wii.Ii her to their companions in roguery
on ihore.
As ibon as we found this, I ordered the long boat
on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to icek the rogues; but they could neither sind
them nor any of the rest; sor they allsled into the woods
when they taw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was once reiblved in justice to their roguery, to have
destroyed their pianta'ions, burnt all their housliold stuff
and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but
having no order, he lei all alone, lest every thing as
they iound it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on
board without them.
Tiicic two men made their number sive; but the other
three villains were fo much more wicked than these, that
aster they had been two or three days together, they
turned their two new-comers out or doers to shift tor
themfelves; and would have nothing to do with
them; nor could they, for fome time, be perfuaded to
give them any food. As for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.
When the Spaniards came sirst on shore, the businefs
began to go sorward.; the Spaniards would have per.
iiiaued tiie three Englifh brutes to have taken in their .
two countrymen agam, that as they laid, they might
be all one family; but they would not hear ot it. So
the two poor feliows lived by themlelves; and, sinding
nothing but industry and application would make them
five comfortable, they pitched their tents on the north
shore 01 the ifland, but a little more to the west, to be
out of the danger of the favages, who always landed on
the e.isi parts ot t ie iiiand,
Herts they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the
other to tsy up thew magazines and stores in; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for feed, efpe-
cially some of the peas which I had iett them* they dug,
and planted, and mclofed, after the pattern I had fet for
them all, and began to live pretty well. T.xir sir$
crop
*rop os corn was. on the ground; and, though it was
but a little bit or'kind which they had dug up at sirst,
having had but a short time, yet it was enough to re-
lieve them, and furmsli them with bread and other eat-
ables; and cne os the sellows, being the cook's mate
os the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings,
and such other preparations, ac the rice and milk, and
such little slesh as they got, turnished him to do. ,
- They were going on in a little thriving way, when
the three unnatural rogues, t^eir own countrymen toe,
in mere humour, and to insult them, came and bullied
them, and told them the island was theirs; that the go-
vernor, meaning me, had given them possession os it,
and nobody else had any right to it; and damn them,
they should build no houses upon their ground, uniess
they would pay them'rent sor them.
s. The two men thought they had jested at sirst i and
asked them to come and sit down, and lee what sine
hoiiies they were that they had built, and tell them
what rent they .demanded. And one os them merrily
tola them, is they were ground-landlords, he hoped, is
they buiit tenements upon the land, and made improve-
ments, they would, according to the custom os all land-
lords, grant them a long lease, aud bid them go setch
a scrivener to draw up the writings. One os the
three, damning, and raging, told them, they should see
they were not in jest; and gomg to a little place at a
distance, where the honest men had made a sire to dress
'their victuals, he took a sire-brand, and clapped it to
the outside ot their hut, and iet it on sire; and it would
.have been all burnt down in a Jew minutes, it one os the
two had not run to the sellow, thrust him away, and
trod the sire out with his seet, and that not without
some dissiculty.
The sellow was in such a rage at the honest maiss
thrustmg him away, that he turned upon him with a
poh- he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided
the blow very nimbly, ana run into the hut, he had
ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the dan-
ger
ger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediate-
lv they came both out with their muskets; and the man
that was sirst struck at with the pole, knocked the fel-
low down who began the quarrel, with the stock os his
musket, and that besore the other two could come to
help him i and then seeing the reft come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends os their
pieces to them, bade them stand ofs. >
. The others had sire-arms with them; but one os the
two honest men bolder than his comrade, and made
desperate by his danger, told them, is they osfered to
move hand or soot, they were all dead men, and boldly
commanded them to lay down their arms. They did
not indeed lay down their arms; but, seeing him reso-
lute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented
to take their wounded man with them, and be gone;
and, indeed, it seems the sellow was wounded sussiciently
with the blow i however, they were much in the wrong, -
since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them essectually, as they might have done, and have
gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an
account how the rogues had treated them; sor the three
villains studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave
them some intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account os the
lesser part os their rogueries; soch as treading down
their corn, shooting three young kids, and a she-goat,
which the poor men had got to breed up tame sor their
store; and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it sorced the two men to such a despera-
tion, that they resolved to sight them all three the sirst
time they had a sair opportunity. In order to this they
resolved to gc^to the castle, as they called it, that was
my old'dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spa-
niards all lived together at that time, intending to have
a sair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see
sair play. So they got up in the morning besore day,
and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their
names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wantT
ed to speak with, them, It
It happened that the (Jay besore, two osthe Spaniante
having been in the woods, had seen one ot' the two En-
glishmen, whom, sor distinction I call the honest men,
and he had made a lad complaint to the Spaniards os
the barbarous usage they had met with srom their three
coWtrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation,
and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard
to bring; sorward, and killed theii milch-goat and three
kids, wiiich was all they had provided for their suste-
nance; and that is he and his sriends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they mould be
starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, he took the sreedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, in gentle and mannerly terms,
and alked them how they could be so cruel, they being
harmleis, inossensive sellows, and that th.jy were' put,
ting themselves in a way to iiibsist by their labour, and .
that it had cost them a great deal os pains to bring
things to such persection as they had.
One os the Englishmen returned very briskly—' What
* had they to do there »' that they came on shore with- .
out leave; and that they should not plant or build upon
the island; it was none os their ground. 'Why,'iays
the Spaniard, very calmly, ' Seignior Inglesc, they
must not starve!' The Englishman replied, like a true
rough hewn tarpaulin, they might starve and be damned!
they should not plant nor build in that place. 'But
* what must they do then, Seignior?' says the Spa-
niard. Another os the brutes returned,—' Do! d—n
'them! they sliould be servants, and work tor them.'
'But how can you expt ct that os them? They are not
'bought with your money; you have no right to make
'them servants.' The Englishman aniwcred, the
island was theirs, the governor had given it to them,
ar.d no man had any thing to do there but themselves;
and with that swore by his Maker, that he would go
and hurn all their new huts; they sliould build none
upon their land.
'Why, Seignior,' says the Spaniard, ' by the same
'rule
* rule we must be your servants too.'—' Aye,' says the
bold dog,' and so you shall too, besore we have done
* with you;' mixing two or three G—d damme's in
the proper intervals os his speech. The Spaniard only
smiled at that, and made him no answer. However,
this little discourse had heated them; and starting up,
one says to the other, (I think it was he they called
Will Atkins)—' Come Jack, letusgoandhavet'other
« brush with themi We'll demolish their castle, I'll
* warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our do
* minions.' _
Upon this, they were all trooping away, with every
man a gun, a pistol and a sword; and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, os what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity ossered; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so persectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard sor taking the two
Englishmens parts. ,
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their tune
'that evening, the Spaniards laid they did not know;
but it seems they wandered about the country part of
the night, and then lying down in the place which I used
to call my bower, thev were weary, and oversteps them-
selves. The cate was this i they had resolved to stay
till midnight, and so to take the poor men when they
were asleep; and they acknowledged it asterwards, in-
tending to set sire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they
came out. And as malice seldom steeps Very sound,
it was strange they should not have been kept waking.
However, as the two men had also a design upon
them, as I have said, though a much fairer one than that
os burning and murdering, it happened, and very luc-
kily sor them all, that they Were up and gone abroad
besore the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came thither, and sound the men gone,
Atkins, who, it teems was the sorwardest man, called
out to his comrades—' Ha, Jack! here's the nest; but,
« d—n
« d—h them, the birds are slown.' They mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion os their being gone
abroad so soon, and suggested presently, that the Spa-
niards had given them notice os it; and with that they
shook hands, and swore to one another that they would
be revenged os the Spaniards. As soon as they had
made this bloody bargain, they sell to work with the
poor men's habitation i they did not set sire, indeed, to
any thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and
pulled them so limb srom limb, that they lest not the
least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood; they tore all their little collected
houshold stusf in pieces, and threw every thing about in
such a manner, that the poor men sound asterwards,
some os their things a mile oss srom their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the
young trees which the poor men had planted; tore up
the inclosure they had made to secure their cattle and
their corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered eveiy
thing, as completely as a horde os Tartars would have
done:
The two men were at this juncture gone to sind them
out, and had resolved to sight them wherever they had
been, though they were but two to threei so that, had
they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed
among them; sor they were all very stout, resolute sel-
lows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asun-
der, than they themselves could do to meet; sor, as they
had dogged one another, when the three were gone thi-
ther, the two were here; and asterwards, when the two
went back to sind them, the three were come to the old'
habitation again. We shall see their disscrent conduct
presently. When the three came back, like surious
creatures, slushed with the rage which the work they had
been about had put them into, they came up to the Spa-
. niards, and told them what they had done, by way of
scoss and bravado; and one os them stepping up to one
os the Spaniards, as is. they had-been a couple os boys
at
at play, takes bold ot his hat, as it was upon his head,
and giving it a twirl about, sleering in his sace, says to
him—' And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have
'the same saute, is you do not mend your manners.'
The Spaniard, who, though quite a cVil man, was as
brave as a man could be desired to be, and withal a
strong well-made man, looked steadily at him for some
time; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and, with one blow ot his sist,
knocked him down, as an ox is sclled with a pole-ax;
at which one os the rogues, insolent as the sirst, sired his
, pistos at the Spaniard unmediately; he missed his body,
indeed, sor the bullets went through his hair, but one
os them touched the tip os his ear, ard he bled pretty
much. The blood made the Spaniard believe that he
was more hurt than he really was, and that put him into
some heat, sor before he acted all in a persect calm; but
now resolving to go through with his work, he stooped,
and took the scllow's musleet whom he had knocked
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
siied at him; when the rest os the Spaniards being
in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot,
they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their
arms srom them.
When they were thus disarmed, and sound they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their
own countrymen, they began to cool; and, giving the
Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards considering the seud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it
would be the best method they could take to keep them
srom one another, told them they would do them no
harm; and it they would live peaceably, thev would be
very willing to assist and associate with tliem as they did
besore; but that they could not think os giving them
their arms again, while they appeared jo resolved to do
mischies with them to their own contrymen, .vid had
even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now more capable to hear reasop
f than
than to act reason; but being resused their arms, they
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening
what they would do, though they had no sire-arms.
But the Spaniards despising their threatening, told them
they mould take care how they osscred any injury to their
plantation or cattle; sor, is they did, they would shoot
them, as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they
sound them; and, is they sell into their hands alive, they
would certainly be hanged. However, this was sar
srom cooling them; but away they went, swearing and
raging like suries os hell. As soon as they were gone,
came back the two men, in passion and rage enough
also, though os another kind; sor, having been at their
plantation, and sinding it all demolished and destroyed,
as above, it will easily be supposed they had provoca-
tion enoughi they could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them their's;
and it was strange enough to sind, that three men should
thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially
having thus disarmed them, made light os their threaten-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy
against them, what pains soever it cost to sind them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them
that they were already disarmed; they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with sire arms,
and perhaps kill them i ' But,' said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, ' we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, is you will leave it to us; sor, as
there is no doubt but they'will come to us again when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
* our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
* them, without having a sull satissaction sor you ; and
* upon this condition, we hope you will promise to use
* no violence with them, other than in your desence.'
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to keep them srom bloodshea, and to
make all easy at last; ' sor,' said they, ' we are not
Vql. II. 30. P 'so
« so many os us; here is room enough sor us all, and
• it is great pity we should not be all good sriends.* At
length they did consent, and waited sor the issue, living
sor some days with the Spaniards, sor their own habi-
tation was destroyed.
In about sive days the three vagrants, tired with wan-
dering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiesly
lived on turtles eggs all the time, came back to the
grove; and Jinding my Spaniard, who, as I have said,
was the governor, and two more with him, walking by
the side os the creek, they came up in a very submissive
and humble manner, and begged to be received again
into the samily. The Spaniards used them civilly but
told them, they had acted so unnaturally by their coun-
trymen, and so very grossly by them, (the Spaniards)
that they could not come to any conclusion, without
consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, how-
ever, they would go to them and discourse about it, and
they mould know in hals an hour. It may be guessed,
that they were very hard put to it; sor it seems, as they
were to wait hals an hour sor an answer, they begged he
would send them out some bread in the mean time;
which he did, and sent them at the same time a large
pieoe os goat's slesh, and a broiled parrot ; which they
eat very heartily, sor they were hungry enough.
Aster hals an hour's consultation they were called in
and a long debate had about them, their two countrymen
charging them with the ruin os all their labour, and a
design to murder them; all which they owned besore,
and theresore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted as moderators between them; and
as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they
row obliged the three to go and rebuild their scllows
two huts, one to be os the same dimensions, and the
•tlier larger than they were besore; also to sence their
ground again, where they had pulled up the sences, plant
trees in the room os those pulled up, dig up the land
*;jain sor planting corn, where they had spoiled it; and
in a word, to restore every thing to the same state as thty
sound it, as near as they could; sor entirely it could
not be, the season sor the corn, and the growth os the
trees and hedges not being possible to be recovered.
They all submitted to this; and as they had plenty
os provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly
and agreeably together again; only these three sellow*
could never be persuaded to work; I mean, not sor
themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased i however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that
is they would but live sociably and sriendly together,
and study on the whol the good os the plantation, they
would be content to work sor 'them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and thvis having
lived pretty well together sor a month or two, the Spa-
niards gave them their arms again, and also liberty to go
abroad with them as besore.
It was not above a week aster they had these arms,
and went abroad, but the ungratesul creatures began to
be as insolent and troublesbme as besore; however,
an accident happened presently upon this, which endan-
gered the sasety os them all; they were obliged to lay
by all private resentments, and look to the preservation
os their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as
I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whole lise I had
saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or governor
os the rest, sound himsels very uneasy in the night, and
could by no means get any sleep i he was persectly well
in body, as he told me the story, only sound his thoughts
tumultuous; his mind ran upon men sighting, and
killing one another, but was broad awake, and could not
by any means get any steep; in short, he lay a great
while; but, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved
to rise. As they slept, being so many os them, upon
goat-sleins, laid thick upon such couches and pads as
they made sor themselves, and not in hammocks and
(hip-beds, as I did, who was but one; so they had lit-
P 1 tie
tie to do when they were willing to rise, but to get upo*
their seet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was,
and their pumps, and they were ready sor going any way
that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark,
lie could see little or nothing; and besides, the trees
which I had planted, as described in my sormer ac-
count, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his
sight, so that lie could only look up, and see that it was
a clear star-light night; and hearing no noise, he re-
turned and laid him down again; but it was all one,
lie could not sleep, nor could he compose himsels to rest,
but his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and
yet he knew not sor what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another os them waked
and asked who it was that was up. The governor told
him how it had been with him. 'Say you so ?' lays the
other Spaniard; ' such things are not to be slighted, I
'assure you; there is certainty some mischies working,*
says he, ' near us.' And presently he asked him—
* Where are the Englishmen ?'—' They are all in their
'huts,' says he, ' safe enough.' It seems, the Spa-
niards had possession os the main apartment, and had
made a place where the three Englishmen, since their
last mutiny, always quartered by themselves, and could
not come at the rest. 'Well,' says the Spaniard,
* there is something in it, I am persuaded srom my own
'experience; I am satissied our spirits embodied have
'converse with, and receive intelligence srom, the spirits-
* unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and
* this sriendly notice is given sor our advantage, is we
'know how to make use os it. Come,' says he, * let
'us go out and look abroad; and is we sind nothing at
* all m it to justisy our trouble, I'll tell you a story to
'the purpose, that shall convince you os the justice os
* my proposing it.'
In a word, they went out to go to the top os the hill,
where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in:
good
good company, not alone, as I was, used none os my
precautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling it
up aster them, to go up to a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove unconcerned, and
unwary, when they were surprized at seeing a light, as
os sire, a very little way oss srom them, and hearing the
voices os men, not os one or two, but os a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to pre-
vent them making the least discovery os their being any
inhabitant upon the place; and when by any necessity,
they came to know it, they selt it so essectually, that
thole who got away were scarce able to give any
account os it, sor we disappeared as soon as possible;
nor did ever any that had seen me, escape to tell any one
else, except it were the three savages in our last encoun-
ter, who jumped into the boat, os whom I mentioned,
that I was asraid they ssiould go home and bring more
help.
Whether it was the consequence os the escape os these
men, that so great a number came now together; or
whether they can;e ignorantly and by accident, on their
usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
understand i but whatever it was, it had been their busi-
ness either to have concealed themselves, and not have
seen them at all; much less to have let the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place;
but to have sallen upon them so effectually, as that not
a man os them should have escaped, which could only
have been by getting in between them and their boats;
but this presence os mind was wanting to them, which
was the ruin os their tranquillity sor a great while.
We need not doubt, but that the governor and the
man with him, surprized at this sight, ran b;ick unme-
diately and raised their sellows, giving them an account
os the imminent danger they were in; and they again
as readily took the alirm, but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay dole within where they were, but
they must all run out to see how things stood.
P 3 While
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough,
and they had opportunity enough, sor some hours, t
view them by the light ot three sires they had made at
some distance srom one another. What they were do-
ing they knew not, and what to do sor themselves they
knew not; sor, sirst, the enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several
places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight, and as tliey sound that the sellows ran straggling
all over the more, they made no doubt but sirst or lasti
some os them would sind their habitation, ordiscover some
other place, where they would see the tokens os inhabi-
tants ; and they were in great perplexity also sor sear os
their slock os goats, which would have been little less than
starving them, is thev should have been destroyed; so
the sirst thing they resolved upon was, to dispatch three
men away, besore it was light, viz. two Spaniards and
one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great
valley where the cave was, and, is need were, to drive
them into the very cave itsels.
Could they have seen the savages all together in one
body, and at a distance srom their canoes, they resolved
is there had been a hundred os them, to have attacked
them i but that could not be obtained, sor they were
some os them two miles oss srom the other, and, as it
appeared asterwards, were os two different nations.
Aster having mused a great while on the course they
should take, and racking their brains in considering their
present circumstances, they resolved at last, while it was
dark, to send the old savage, (Friday's sather)
out as a spy, to learn, is potsible, something con-
cerning them, as what they came sor, and what
they intended to do, and the like. The old man
readily undertook it, and stripping himsels quite
raked, as" most os the savages were, away he wenti
aster he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word,
that he had been among them undiscovered; that he
sound
found they were two parties, and os two several nations,
who had war with one another, and had had a great
battle in their own country, and that both sides having
had several prisoners taken in the sight, they were, by
mere chance landed in the same island, sor the devour-
ing their prisoners, and making merry; but their com-
ing so by chance to the same place, had spoiled all their,
mirth; that they were in a great rage at one another,
and were so near, that he believed they would sight again
as soon as day-li^ht began to appear; but he did not
perceive that they had any notion os any body's being on
the island but themselves. He had hardly made an end
os telling the story, when they could perceive, by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies
were engaged in a bloody sight.
Friday's sather uied all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he
told them, t'reir sasety consisted in it, and that they had
nothing to do but to lie still, and the savages would kill
one another to their hands, and the rest would go away;
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to pre-
vail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so unportunate sor the event, that they must run
out and see the battle. However, they used some cau-
tion, viz. they did not go openly, just by their own
dwelling, but went sarther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see
them manage the sight, and, as they thought, not to be
seen by them; but, it seems, the savages did see them,
as we shall sind hereaster.
The battle was very sierce; and is I might believe the
Englishmen, one os them said, he could perceive that
some os them were men os great bravery, os invincible
spirits, and os great policy in managing the sight. The
battle, they said, held two hours, besore they could
guess which party would be beaten i but that party
which was nearest our people's habitation, began to ap-
pear weakest, and aster some time more, some os them
fcegan to sly; and this put our men again into a great
consternation,
consternation, lest any os thole that sled should run int«
the grove besore their dwelling sor shelter, and thereby
involuntarily discover the place; and that by conse-
quence the pursuers should do the like in search os them.
Upon this they resolved, that they would stand armed
within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they
should sally out over the wall and kill them; so that, is
possible, not one should return to give an account os
it. They ordered also, that it should be done with
their swords, or by knocking them down with the stock
os I he musket, not by shooting them, sor sear os raising
an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it sell out; three os the routed
army sled sor life and crossing the creek, ran directly
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, hut running as into a thick wood sor shelteri the
scout;they kept to look abroad gave notice os this within,
with this addition, to our men's great satissaction, viz.
that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen
which wav they were gone. Upon this the Spanish go-
vernor, a man os humanity, would not suffer them to
kill the three sugitives; but, sending three men out by
the top os the hill, ordered them to go round, and com-
ing in behind them, surprize and take them prisoners,
which was done; the residue os the conquered people
fled to their canoes, and got off to lea; the victors re-
tired, and made no pursuit, or very little; but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great scream-
ing shouts, which they supposed were by way os tri-
umph, and so the sight ended i and the same day, about
three o'clock in the asternoon, they also marched to
their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again sree to themlclves, their sright was over, and they
saw no savages sor several years aster.
Aster they were all gone, the Spaniards came out os
their den; and viewing the sield os battle, they sound
about two and thirty dead men upon the spot; some
were killed with great long arrows, several os which
were seund sticking in their bodies; but most os them
were
were killed with their great wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen os which they sound in the sield os battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These
swords were great unwieldy weapons, and they must be
very strong men that used them. Most os those men
that were killed, had their heads mashed to pieces, as
we may say, or as we may call it in English, their
brains knocked out and several os their arms and segs
broken; so that it is evident they sight with inexpressible
rage and sury. They sound not one wounded man
that was not stone dead; sor either they stay by their ,
enemy till they have quite killed him, or they carry all
the wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with
them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen sor a great
whilei the sight hid silled them with Ioitow, and the
consequence appeared terrible to the last degree, espe-
cially upon supposing that some time or other they should
sall into the hands os thoie creatures; who would not
only kill them as enemies, J«it kill them sor sood, as
we kill our cattle. And they prosesied to me, that the
thoughts os being eaten up like bees or mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they w^re dead, had
something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought os it, and
silled their minds with unusual terror, that they were
not themselves sor some weeks aster.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes
I have been speaking os; and sor a great while after
they were very tractable, and went abuut the common
business os the whole society well enough; planted,
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country; but some time aster this, they tell all into
such sunple measures again as brought them into a great
deal os trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I have observed;
and these three being lusty stout young sellows, they
made them servants, and taught them to work ter them,
and as slaves, they did well enough; but they did not
take
take measures with them as I did by my man Friday 5
viz. to begin with tjpem upon the principle os having
saved their lives, and then instructed them in the rati-
onal principles os lise, much less os religion, civilizing
and reducing them by kind usage, and assectionate ar-
guments; but, as they gave them their sood every day,
so they gave them their work too, and kept them sully
employed in drudgery; but they sailed in this by it,
that they never had them to assist them and sight sor
them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me
as the very slesh upon my bones.
But to come to the samily part. Being all now good
sriends, (sor common danger, as I said above, had es-
scctually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the sirst thing that came un-
der their consideration was, whether, seeing the savages
particularly haunted that side os the island, and that
there were more remote and retired parts os it equally
adapted to their way os living, and manisestly to their
advantage, they should not rather remove their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place sor their
sasety, and especially sor the security os their cattle
and corn.
Upon this, aster long debate, it was conceived, that
they mould not remove their habitation; because that
some time or other they thought they might hear srom
their governor again, meaning me; and is I mould send
any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them
on that side, where, is they mould sind the place demo-
lhhed, they would conclude the savages had killed us
all, and we were gone, and so o<ir supply would go
away too.
But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to re-
move them into the valley where my cave was, where
the land was as proper to both, and where indeed thera
was .land enough. However, upon second thoughts,
they altered one part os that resolution too, and resolved
only to remove part os their cattle thither, and plant
part os their corn there, and so, is one part was de-
stroyed,
ftroyed, she other might be saved. One piece os pru-
dence they used, which it was very well they did, viz.
that they had never trusted these three savages, which
they had taken prisoners, with knowing any thing os
the plantation they had made in that valley, or os any
cattle they had there; much less os the cave, which
they kept in case os necessity, as a sase retreati and
thither they carried also the two barrels os powder,
which I had sent them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolved not to change their ha-
bitation; yet they agreed, that as I had caresully co-
vered it sirst with a wall os sortisication, and then with
a grove os trees; so, seeing their iasety consisted entirely
in their being concealed, os which they were now sully
convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the
place yet more esscctually than besore. To this pur-
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew to be trees) sor some good dis-
tance besore the entrance into my apartment, they went
on in the same manner, and .silled up the rest os that
whole space os ground, srom the trees I had set, quite
down to the side os the creek, where, as I sakl, I
landed my sloats, and even into the very oiue where
the tide slowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landingthere-
about. These stakes also, being os a wood vtry tor-
ward to grow, they took care to have generally much
larger and taller than thote which I had planted, and
placed them so very thick and close, that when they
had been three or sour years grown, there was no pierc-
ing with the eye any considerable way into the planta-
tion. As sor that part which I had planted, the trees
were grown as thick as a man's thigh; and among them
they placed so many other short ones, and so thick, that
it stood like a palliiado a quarter os a mile thick, and it
was next to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little
army, to cut it all down; sor a little dog could hardly
get between the trees, they stood so dose.
But this was not all; sor they did the same by all
i the
the ground to the right-hand, and to the lest, and round
even to the top os the hill; leaving no way, not so
much as sor themselves to come out, but by the ladder
placed up to the side os the hill, and then listed up,
and placed again srom the sirst stage up to the top;
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witchcrast to assist it, could come
at them.
This was excellently well contrivedi nor was it less
than what they asterwards sound occasion sor; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has au-
thority os Providence to justisy it, so it has, doubtless,
the direction os Providence to set it to work; and,
would we listen caresully to the voice os it, I am sully
persuaded we might prevent many os the disasters
which our lives are now by our own negligence sub-
jected to.
To return to the story. They lived two years aster
this in persect retirement, and had no more visits srom
the savages; they had, indeed, an alarm given them
one morning, which put them in a great consternation;
sor, some os the Spaniards being out early one morning
on the west side, or rather end os the island, which was
that end where I never went, sor sear os being disco-
vered, they were surprised with seeing about twenty ca-
noes os Indians just coming on shore.
They made the best os their way home, and giving
the alarm to their comrades, kept close all that day and
the next, going out only at night, to make observation.
But they had the good luck to be mistaken; sor where-
ever the savages went, they did not land at that time on
the istand, but pursued some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Eng-
lishmen; one os which, a most turbulent scllow, being
in a rage at one os the three slaves, which they had ta-
ken, because the scllow had not done something right
which he bid him do, and seemed a little untractable
in his mewing him, drew a hatchet out os a srog belt,
ia which he wore it by his side, and sell upon the poor
savage
ferage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One os
the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the scllow
a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his
head, but struck it into his shoulder, so that he thought he
had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and in-
treating him not to murder the poor man, stcpt in be-
tween him and the savage, to prevent the mischies.
The fellow being enraged the more at this, struck at
the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a sho-
vel, which he had in his hand, (sor they were working
in the sield about their corn-land) knocked the brute
ctown; another os the Englishmen, running at the iame
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down;
and then two Spaniards more came to help their man,
and a third Englishman sell upon them. They had
none os them any sire-arms, or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except the third Englishman;
he had one os my old rusty cutlasses, with which he
made at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both.
This sray set the whole samily in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen pri-
soners. The next question was, What should be done
with them? They had been so osten mutinous, and
were so surious, so desperate and so idle withal, that
that they knew not what course to take with them, sor
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and va-
lued net what hurt they did any man; so that in short, it
was not sase to live with them.
The Spaniard who was gqvernor, told them, that is
they had been his own countrymen, he would have
hanged them all; sor all laws, and all governors, were
to preserve society; and these who were dangerous to
the society, ought;)to be expelled out os iti but, as
they were Englishmen, and it was to the generous kind-
ness os an Englishman that they ail owed their preser-
vation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and leave them to the judgment ot
V01-. II. '30 Q_ the
tlit other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.
One os the two honest Englishmen stood up, and laid,
they desired it might not be left to themi 'For (says
he) lam sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows.'
And with that gave an aecount, how Will Atkins, one
os the three, had proposed to have all the sive English-
men join together, and murder all the Spaniards when
they were asteep.
When the Spanish governor heard this he calls to
Will Atkins. 'How, Seignior Atkins, (says he)
• will you murder us all! What have you to say to
'that ?* That hardened villain was so sar srom deny-
ing it, that he said it was true; and G—d damn him,
they would do it still before they had done with them.
• Well, but Seignior Atkins, (said the Spaniard) what
'have we done to you, that you will kill us? And what
• would you get by killing us ? And what must we do to
'prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you
'kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity os this,
'Seignior Atkins ?' says the Spaniard calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's
making a jest os it, that, had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle os all the company.
This hair-brained conduct obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen,
and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were os
the opinion, that they mould hang one os the three sor
an example to the it ft; and that particularly it should
be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with
his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe
he had done it, sor the poor savage was in such a mise-
rable condition with the wound he had received, that it
was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still raid, no, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered hals os them; nay, he said, is he had
been
been killed himsels by an Englishman, and had time
lest to speak, it should be, that they should pardon
him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor
Spaniard, that there was no resisting it; and, as merci-
sul counsels are most apt to prevail, where they are so
earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it
was to be considered, what mould be done to keep them
from the mischies they designed; sor all agreed, gover-
nor and all, that means were to be used sor preserving
the society srom danger. Aster a long debate it was
agreed, First, That they should be disarmed, and not
permitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or
sword, cr any weapon, and should be turned out os the
society, and lest to live where they would, and howthey
could, by themselves; but that none os the rest, either
Spaniards or Englisii, should converse, or have any
thing to do with them; that they should be sorbid to
come within a certain distance os the place where th«
rest dwelt; and that is they offered to commit any dis-
order, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any os the
corn, plantings, buildings, sences, or cattle belonging
to the societv, that they should die without mercy, and
they should il.oot them wherever they could sind them.
The governor, a man os great humanity, musing upon
the sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turning
to the two honest Englishmen, said,—' Hold! you must
'reslect, that it will be long ere thev can raise corn
'and cattle os their own, and they must not starve; we
'must theresore allow them provisions." So he caused
to be added, That they should have a proportion ot coin
given to them to last them eight months, and for seed to
sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some
os their own; that they should have six milch-goats,
sour he-goats, and six kids given them, as well sor pre-
sent subsidence, as sor a store; and that they should have
took given them sor their work in the sield ; such as, six
hatchets, an a.\, a saw, and the like i but they should have
none os these tools or provisions, unless they would swear
Q^2 solemnly,
solemnly, that they would not hurt or injure any of
the Spaniards with them, or os their sellow English-
men.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned
them out to shist sor themselves. They went away sul-
len and resractory, as neither contented to go away, or.
to stay; but as there was no remedy, they went, pre-
tending to go and chuse a place where they should ict-
tle themselves, to phnt, and live by themselves; and
some provisions were stiven them, but no weapons.
. About sour or sive days aster, they came again sor
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked themielves out
a habitation or plantation. It was a very convenient
place, indeed, on the remotest part os the ..land, N. E.
much about the place where I providentially landed in
my sirst voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my soolisli attempt tosorrjuud
the island.
Here thev built themselves two handsome huts, and
contrived them in a manner like my sirst habitation,
being close under the side os a hill, having some tree*
growing already to the three sides os it; so that by plant-
ing others, it would be very easily covered srom the
sight, unleis narrowly searched sor. They desired some
dry goat-skins sor beds and covering, which were given
them; and, upon their giving their words that they
would not disturb the rest, or injure zny os their planta-
tions, they gave them hatchets, and what other tools
they could sparei some peas, barley, and rice, sor sow-
ing; and, in a word, any thing they wanted, but arms
and ammunition!
Thev lived in this separate condition abciit six months,
and had got in their sirst harvest, though the quantity
•was but .mall, the parcel os land they planted bemg but
little; sor, indeed, having all their plan'.at.on to sorm,
they had a great deal os work upon their hands; and
when they came to make boards, and pots, and suth
tiungs, they were quite cut os their element, and could
make
make nothing ot' it; and when the rainy season came on,
sor want os a cave in the earth, they could not keep
their grain dry, and it was in great danger os spoiling i
and this htunbled them much; so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did; and in lour days worked a great hole in the side
os the hill sor them, large enough to secure their corn and
other things srom the rain; but it was but a poor place
at best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; sor the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments in it.
About three quarters ot a year aster this separation,
anew srolic seized these rogues, which, together wit/j
the sormer viliainy they had committed, brought mischief
enough upon them, and had very ne?rbeen the ruin os
the whole colony. The three new associates began, it
ieems, to be weary os the laborious lise they led, and
that without hope os bettering their circumstances, and
a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to
the continent srom whence the savages came, and would
try is they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make
them do the laborious part os the work sor them.
The project was not so preposterous had they gone
110 sarther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing,
but what had either mischies in the design, or mischies
in the eventi and, is I may give my opinion, they seem-
ed to be under a judgment srom Heaven; sor is we will
^v2t allow a visible curie to pursue visible crimes, how
gitfU we reconcile the events os things with Divine Jus-
'tjr.e? It was, certainly an apparent vengeance on their
-rime os mutiny and piracy, that brought them to the
state they were in; and as they shewed not the least re-
morse sor the crime, but added new villainies to it, such
as, particularly, that piece os monstrous cruelty os
wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he was directed; and
to wound him in such a manner, as made him a
cripple all his lise; and in a place where no surgeon
Qj' or
or medicine could be had for his cure; and what was
still worfe, the murderous intent; or, to do julHce to
the crime, the intentional murder; for fuch to be fure
it was, as was afterwards the formed design they all
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their
steep.
But to return to the story. The three fellows came
down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very hum-
ble terms desired to be admitted to fpeak with them.
The Spaniards very readily heard what they had to fay,
which was this i that they were tired of living in the
manner they did; that they were not handy enough to
make the necessaries they wanted; and that, having no
help they found they should be starved; but if the
Spaniards would give them leave to take cne of the ca-
noes that they came over in, and give them aims and
ammunition proportioned for their defence, they would
go over to the main and feek their fortune, and sb free
them from the trouble of fupplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them,
but yet very honestly reprefented to them the certain de-
struction they were running into; told them, they had
disfered fuch hardships upon that very fpot, that they
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that
they would be starved or murdered; aud bade them
consider os it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved
if they staid here, for they could not work, and woul£_
not work; and they could but be starved abroad; ais'iCj
if they were murdered, there was an end of them, tluy
had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in
short, insisted importunately upon their demand, declar-
ing that they would go, whether they would give them
any arms or not.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindnefs, that
if they were resolved to go, they mould not go like
naked men, and be in no condition to defend them-
fesves; and that fheugh they could ill ipare their sire-
arms.
.arms, having not enough sor themselves, yet they cousd
let them have two musquets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and
each mm a hatchet, witich they thought was sussicient
ibr them.
In a word, they accepted the osser; and having baked
them bread enough to serve them a month, and given
them as much goats-sleih as they couid eat while it was
sweet, and a great basket sull os dried grapes, a pot sull
os sreffi water, and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly
set cut in a canoe sor a voyage over the sea, where it was
at hast forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have
very well carried sisteen or twenty men; and theresore
was rather too big sor them to managei but as
they had a sair breeze, and the slood-tide with them,
thev did well enough. They had made a mast os a long
pole, and a sail os sour large goat-skins dried, which they
had sewed or laced together; and away they went mer-
rily enough. The Spaniards cailed arter them, ' Bon
* 'vcajo s and no man ever thought os seeing them more.
The Spaniards would osten say to one another, and
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how
quiet and comsortably they lived now those three tur-
bulent sellows were gone. As sor their ever coming
ago in, that was the remotest thing srom their thoughts
that couUi.be imagined i when behold! aster twenty-
two days absence, or.e os the Englishmen being abroad
upon his planting work, saw three strange men coming
towards him at a distance, two os them with guns upon
their shoulders.
Away ran the Englishmanas is he was bewitched, and
came srighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard,
telling them they were all undone, forthere were strangers
landed upon the island, he could not tell who. The
Spaniard pausing a-while, said to him,—c Hew do yon
'mean you cannot tell who? They are savages, to be
'sure.'—' No, no,' says the Englishman, ' they are
'men in cloaths with aims.'—Nay, then,' says the
Spaniard, ' why are you concerned; Is they are not
'savages
* savages they must be sriends ; for there is no Chris-
'tian nation upon earth but will do us good rather
'than harm.'
While they were debating thus, came tiie three En-
glishmen, and standing without she wood, which was
new planted, hallooed to them. They presently knew
their voices; and so all wonder os that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another ques-
tion; viz. What could be the matter, and what made
them come back again.
It was not long besore they brought the men in; and
enquiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing; they gave them a sull account os their vovage,
in a sew words, viz. That they reached the land in two
days, or something less; but, sinding the people alarm-
ed at their coming, and preparing with bows and ar-
rows to sight them, they durst not go on more, but
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they
came to a great opening, by which they perceived that
the land they saw srom our island was not the main, but
an island; that entering that opening os the sea, they
few another island on the right hand, north, and several
more west; and, being resolved to land somewhere,
they put over to one os the islands which lay west, and
went boldly on more; that they sound the people were
courteous and sriendly to them, and they gave them
several roots and some dried sish, and appeared very so-
ciable; and the women as well as the men, were very
forward to supply them with any thing they could get
sor them to eat, and brought it to them a great way
upon their heads.
They continved here sour days, and enquired, as well
as they could os them by signs, what nations were this
way, and that way; and were told os several sierce and
terrible people, that lived almost every way; who, as
they made known by signs to them, used to eat men's
but as sor themselves, they said that they never eat men
or women, except only such as tliey took in the wars;
and then they owned, that they made a great scast, aird
eat their prisoners. 'Then
Tlve Englishmen enquired, when they had a scast os
that kind. They told them, two moons ago, pointing
to the moon and then to two singers; and that their
great king had two hundred prisoners now, which he had
siken iii his war, and that they were seeding them to
mi-kc them sat sor the next seast. The Englishmen
jeemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners; but the
others, mistaking them, thought they were desirous to
have some os them, to carry away sor their own eating.
So they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting os
the sun, and then to the rismg, which was tc signisy, that
the next morning, at su-i-rising, they would bring some
sor them i and, accordingly, the next morning, they
brought down sive women and eleven men, and gave
them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring Ib many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town to victual a slap.
As brutish and barbarous as these sellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did
rot know what to do i to resuse the prisoners would
h?ve been the highest assront to the savage gentry that
ossered thsm; and what to do with them they knew
-not; however, upon some debate, they resolved to ac-
cept os them; and, in return, they gave the savages
that brought them one os their hatchets, an old key, a
Jinise, and six or seven os their bullets; which, though
they did not understand, they seemed extremely pleased
with i and then, tying the poor creatures hands behind
them, thev (the people) dragged the prisoners into the
boat tor our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon
as they had them, or else thev that gave them this no-
ble present would certainly have ex ected that they
should have gone to work with them, have killed two
or three ut" them the next morning, and perhaps have
invited the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave, with all the respect
and thanks that could well pass between people, where,
©neither iiie, they under,tood not one word they could
say,
say, they put oss with their boat, ami came back to-
wards the sirst island; where, when they arrived, they
set eight os their prisoners at liberty, there being too
many os them sor their occasion.
In their voyage they endeavoured to have some com-
munication with their prhbners; but it was impossible
to make them understand any thing; nothing they
could say to them, or give them, or do sor them, but was
looked upon as going about to murder them. They
sirst os ail unbound them; but the poor creatures
screamed at that, especially the women, as is they had
just sclt the knise at their throats; sor they immediately
concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed.
Is they gave them any thing to eat, it was the same
thingi tntn they concluded it was sor sear they mould
sink ia stem, and so not be sat enough to kill; is they
looked at one os them more particularly, the party
presentlv concluded, it was to see whether he or me was
fattest and sittest to kill sirst; nay, aster they had
brought them quite over, and began to use them kmd-
ly, and treat them well, slill they expected everyday to
make a dinner or supper sor their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccount-
able history or journal ot their voyage, the Spaniard
asked them where their new samily was; and being told
that they had brought them on more, and put them into
one os their huts, and were come to bog some victuals sor
them; they (the Spaniards) and the other two English-
men, that is to say the whole colony, resolved to go
down to the place, and see them; they accordingly did
so, and toolt Friday's sather with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
bound; sor when they had brought them on shore, they
bound their hands, that they might not take the boat
and make their escape; there, I iay they sat, all ot them
stark-naked. First, there were three men, lusty, come-
ly sellows, well-shaped, straight, anil sair limbs, about
thirty to thirty sive years os age; and sive women,
whereos two might be srom thirty to sorty; two more
not
not above twenty-sour or twenty-sive; and the sisth a
tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The
women were well-savoured, agreeable persons, both in
shape and seatures, only tawny; and two os them, had
they been penectly white, would have passed sor hand-
some women, even in London itsels, having very plea-
sant agreeable countenances, and os a very modest be-
haviour, especially when they came asterwards to be
cloathed, and dressed, as they call it, though that dress
was very indifferent it must be consessed; os which
hereafter.
The siebt, you may be sure was something uncouth
to our Spaniards, who were (to give them a just cha-
racter) men os the best behaviour, os the mest calm, se-
date tempers, and persect good-humour, that ever I
met with; and, in pnrticuiar, were posiesstd os a great
share os modesty i I say, the sight was very uncouth,
to see two naked men, and sive naked women, all to-
gether bound, and in the most miserable cicumstances
that human nature could be supposed to be; expecting
every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains
knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a cals that is
killed sor a dainty.
The sirst thing they did, was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's sather, to go in and lee sirst is he knew any of
them, and then is he understood any os their speech.
As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none os them; neither could any os
them understand a word he said, ora sign he could make,
except one os the women.
However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satissy them, that the men into whose bauds they
were sallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed. As soon as they were assured os this,
they discovered such a joy, and by such aukward and
various ways, as is hard to describe; sor it seems they
were os several nations.
The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid, in
the
ti.c next place, to risk them it they were willing to he
servants, and to work sor the men who had brought
them away to save their lives? At which they all fell a
dancing'; and presently one tell to taking u;> this, and
another that, any thing that lay next, to cany on
their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to
work.
The governor, who sound that the having women
among them, would presently be attended with some
inconvenience, and might occasion some strise, and per-
haps blood, asked the three men what they intended to
do with these women, and how they proposed to use them,
whether as servants, or as women. One os the En-
glishmen answered very boldlv and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said,
—' I am not going to restrain you srom it; you are
'vour own masters as to thati but this I think is but
'just, sor avoiding disorders and quarrels amoEg you,
'and I desire it os you sor that reason only; vi7. that
* you will all engage, that is any os you tske any os
'these women, as a weman or wise, he shall take but
'one; and that, having taken one, none else shall touch
'her; sor though we cannot marry any os you, yet it
'is but reasonable, that while you stay here, the woman
'any os you takes, should be maintained by the man
'who takes her, and should be his wise; I mean,' says
he, ' while he continues here; and that none else sh.or.JJ
'have any thing to do with her.' All this appeared so
just, that every one agreed to it without any disssiculty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards, is thev
designed to take any os them. But every one answered,
'No.' Some os them said they had wives in Spain,
and others did not like women that were not Christians;
and altogether declared that they would not touch one
os them; which was an instance os such virtue,
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the
other hand, to be short, the sive Englishmen took
them every one a wise; that is to say a temporary wisc;
and so they let up a new sorm os living; sor the
Spaniards
Spaniards and Friday's sather lived in my old habita-
tion, which they had enlarged exceedingly within; the
three servants, which they had taken in the late battle os
the savages, "lived with them; and these carried on the
main part os the colony, supplying all the rest with sood,
and assisting them with any thing as they could, or as
they sound necessity required.
But the wonder os this story was, how sive such re-
sractory ill matched sellows should agree about these
women, and that two os them ssiould not pitch upon the
same woman, especially seeing two or three os them were
without comparison, more agreeable than the othersi
but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; sor they set the sive women by them-
selves in one os their huts, and they went all into the
other hut, and drew lots among them who should chuse
sirst.
He that drew to chuse sirst, went away by himsels to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and setch-
ed out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that
he that chose sirst, took her that was reckoned the home-
liest and ugliest os the sive, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at iti
but the sellow considered better than any os them, that
it was application and business that they were to expect
assistance in, as much as any thing else; and me proved
the best wise among them.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row
thus, and setched out one by one, the terrors os their
condition returned upon them again, and they sirmly
believed that they werenow going to be devoured. Ac-
cordingly, when the English sailor came in and setched
cut one os them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry,
and hung about her, and took their leave os her with
such agonies, and such assection, as would have grieved
the hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible sor
the Englishmen to satissy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they setched the old man,
Fridav's sather, who instantly let them know, that the
Vol. II. 30. R sive
sive men, who had fetched them out one by one, had
chosen them sor their wives.
tVhen they had done this, and the sright the women
were in, was a little over, the men went to work, and
the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a scw
hours, they had built them every one a new hut or tent sor
their lodging apart; sor those they had already werecroud-
ed with their tools, houmold-stuffand provisionsi the three
wicked ones had pitched sarthest off, and the two ho-
nest ones nearer, but both on the north-shore os the
island, so that they continued separate as besorei and
thus my island was peopled in three places; and, as I
might say, three towns were begun to be planted.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it
osten happens in the world, (what the wise ends os God's
Providence are in such a deposition os things, I cannot
say) the two honest sellows had the two worst wives;
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were sit sor nothing, and neither seemed born
to do themselves good, or any one else, had three de-
cent, diligent, caresul, and ingenious wives; not that
the two sirst were ill wives as to their temper or humour,
sor all the sive were most willing, quiet, passive, and
subjected creatures, rather l.ke slaves than wives; but
my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour os
a diligent application on the one hand, and to the dis-
grace os a slothsul, negligent, iiile temper on the other,
that when I came to the place, and viewed the several
improvements, planting, and management os the seve-
ral little colonies, the two men had so sar outgone the
three, that there was no companion. They had, in-
deed, both os them as much ground laid out for corn as
they wanted; and the realbn was, because, according
to my rule, nature dictated, that it was to no purpoie
to sow more corn than they wanted; but the disserence
os the cultivation, os the planting, os the sences, aud
• indeed os every thing else, was easy to be seen at sirst
view, - The
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
•bout their huts, that when you came to the place, no-
thing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
their plantation twice demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as will be shewn
in its proper place, yet they had restored all again, and
every thing was slourishing and thriving about them;
they had grapes planted in order, and managed like a
vineyard, though they had themselves never seen any
thing os that kind; and by their good ordering their
Tines, their grapes were as good again as any os the
others. Thay had also sound themselves a retreat in the
thickest part os the woods, where, though there was
not a natural cave, as I had sound; yet they made one
with inceslant labour os their hands, and where, when
the mischies which sollowed happened, they secured
their wives and children, so as they could never be
sound; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and
poles os the wood, which as I laid, grew so easily,
made a grove impassable, except in one place, where
they climbed up to get over the outside part, and their
went in by ways os their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them,
though they were much civilized by their new settle-
ment, compared to what they were besore, aud were
not so quarrelsbme, having not the same opportunity;
yet one os the certain companions os a prosligate mind
never lest them, and that was their idleness. It is true
they planted corn, and made sences; but Solomon's
words were never better verisied than in them i 'I went
'by the vineyard os the ssothsul, and it was all over-
'grown with thorns.' For when the Spaniards came
to view their crop, they could not see it in some places
sor weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the
wild goats had gotten in and eaten up the corn; per-
haps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out sor the present; but it was only shutting
the stable-door aster the steed was stoleni whereas, when
they looked on the colony os the other two, there was
R i the
the very sace os industry and success upon all they did,
there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a
pap in any os their hedges; and, they, on the other
hand, verisied Solomon's words in another placei
* That the diligent hand malceth rich.' For every thing
grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and with-
out; they had more tame cattle than the others, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more plea-
sure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives os the three were veiy handy
and cleanly within doors; and, having learned the Eng-
lish ways os dressing and cooking srom one ot the other
Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cooke's mate on
board the ship, they dressed their husband's victuals
ver)- nicely and well; whereas the other could not be
brought to understand it; but then the huiband,who, as
I said, had been cook's mate, did it himsels. But as
sor the husbands os the three wives, they loitered about,
setched turtle eggs, and caught sish and birdsi in a
word, any thing but labour; and they sared accord-
ingly. The diligent lived well and comsortably, and
the slothsul lived hard and beggarly; and so I believe,
generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But now I come to a scene different srom all that had
happened besore, either to them or to me; the original
os the story was this—
Early one morning there/Came on shore sive or six ca-
noes os Indians, or savages, call them what you please;
ar.d there is no room to doubt, that they came upon the
old errand os seeding upon their slavesi but that part
was now so samiliar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it as I
did; but, having been made sensible by their experi-
ence, that their only business was to lie concealed, and
that, is they were not seen by any os the savages, they
would go off again quietly when their business was done,
having as yet not the least notion os there being inha-
bits u in the island; I say, having been made lensible
«s thisj they had nothing to do but to give notice to
all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not
to shew themselves; only placing a scout in a secure
place, to give notice when the boats went off to sea
again.
This was without doubt very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among
the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which
was, in the end, the desolation os almost the whole co-
lony. Aster the canoes with the iav^ges were gone
off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some os
them had the curiosity to go to the piace where they had
been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprize, they sound three savages lest behind, and lying
sasti asleep upon the ground ; it was supposed they had ei-
ther been Ib gorged with their inhuman seast, that, like
beasts, they were asleep, and would not stir when the
others went, or they were wandered into the woods,
and did not coine back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight,
and persectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish go-
vernor, as it happened, was with them, and his advice
was asked; but he prosessed he knew not what to do.
As sor staves, they had enough already; and as to
killing them, they were none os them inclined to that.
The Spaniard governor told me they could not think os
stiedding innocent blood; tor as to them, the poor crea-
tures had done no wrong, invaded none os their pro-
perty, and they thought they had no just quarrel against
them to take away their lives.
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, ob-
serve, that let all the accounts os Spanish cruelty in
Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with
ieventeen men, os any nation whatsoever, in any so-
reign countrv, who were so universally modest, tempe-
rate, virtuous, so very good humoured, and so courte-
ous, as these Spaniards; and as to cruelty, they had
nothing os it in their very nature; no inhumanity, no
barbarity, no outrageous passions, and yet all c.f them
men os great courage and ipirit.
K 3" Their
Their temper and calmness had appeared, in their
.bearing the unfufferable usage os the three Englishmen;
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the case
os the savages, as above. Atter some consultation,
they resolved upon this, that they would* lie still awhile
longer, till, is possible, these three men might be gone;
but then the governor Spaniard recollected that the three
savages had no boat, and that, is they were lest to
rove about the istand, they would certainly discover that
there were inhabitants in it; and so they should be un-
done that way.
Upon this they went back again, and there lay the
scllows sait aileep stilli so they resolved to awaken them
and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor
scllows were strangely srighted when they were seized
upon and bound, and asraid, like the women, that they
should be murdured and eaten; sor it seems, those peo-
ple think all the world do as they do, eating men's slesh,
•but they were loon made easy as to that, and away they
carried them.
It was very happy sor them, that they did not carry
them home to their castle; I mean, to my palace under
the hill; but they carried them sirst to the bower, where
was the chies os their country-work; such as keep-
ing the goats, planting the corn, &c. and asterwards
they carried them to the habitation os the two Eng-
lishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much
thev had sor them to do. And, whether it was by
negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the
scllows could not mend themselves, I know not, but
one os them ran away; and, taking into the woods,
they couid never hear os him more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon aster, in some other boats or canoes os savages,
who came on shore three or sour weeks asterwards, and
who, carrying on their revels as usual, went oss again
in two diys time. This thought terrisied them ex-
ceedingly; sor they concluded, and that not without
good
good cause indeed, that is this sellow got sase home
among his comrades, he would certainly give them i*
account that there were people in the island, as also
how weak and sew they were; sor this savage, as I ob-
served besore, had never been told, as it was very
happy he had not, how many there were, or where they
lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the sire os any os
their guns, much less had they shewn him any other os
their retired places, such as the cave in the valley, or
the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made,
and the like.
The sirst testimony they had, that this scllow had
given intelligence os them was, that about two months
aster this, six canoes os savages, with about seven or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the
north-side os the island, where they never used to come
besore, and landed about an hour aster sun-rise, at a
convenient place, about a mile srom the habitation os
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been all
there, the damage would not have been so much, sor not a
man os them would have escaped; the case dissered now
very much; sor two men to siisty were too much odds.
The two men had the happiness to discover them about
a league oss, so that it was above an hour besore they
landed; and, as they landed about a mile srom their
huts, it was some time besore they could come at them.
Now having great reason to believe that they were be-
trayed, the sirst thing they did was to bind the slaves
which were lest, and cause two os the three men, whom
they brought with the women, who, it seems, proved
very saithsul to them, to lead them with their two
wives,, and whatever they could carry away with them
to their retired place in the woods, which I have spoken
os above, and there to bind the two sellows hand and
Foot till they heard sarther.
In the next place, seeing the savages were nil come
•n share, and that they bent their course directly that
way
2
way, they opened the fences where their milch-goats
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats
to straggle into the wood, whither they pleafed, that
she favages might think they were all bred wild i but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and rave them an account of it all; for they went
directly to the place.
When the two poor frighted men had fecured their
wives and goods, they fent the other slave they had of
the three who came with the women, and who was at
their place, bv accident, away tb the Spaniards, with
all fpeed, to give them the alarm, and desire fpeedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms, and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the
place in the wood where their wives were lent, keeping
at a distance; yet so that they might fee, if possible,
which way the favages took.
They had not gone far, when, from a rising ground,
they could fee the little army of their enemies come on
directly to their habitation, and in a moment more,
could see all their huts and houshold-stuff slaming up to-
gether, to their great grief and mortisication; tor they
had a very great lofs, and to them irretrieveable, at least
for some time. They kept their station for awhile, till
they found the favages, like wild beasts, fpread them-
felves sll over the place, rummaging every way, and every
place they could think of, in fearch for prey; and in
particular, for the people, of whom it pla.nly appeared
thev had intelligence.
The two Englithmen feeing this, thinking themselves
not fecure where they stood, becaule, as it was likely
some of the wild people might come that way, ib they
might come tco many together; thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile farther, believ-
ing; as it afterwards happened, that the larther they
strolled, the ferer would be together.
The eeNt halt was at the entrance into a very thick-
grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a
tree
tree stood, which was hollow, and very large; and in
this tree they both took their standing, resolving to sec
what might osscr.
They had not stood here long, when two os the sava-
ges appeared running directly that way, as is they had
already notice where they stood, and were coming up to
attack them; and a little way sarther, they espied three
more coming aster them, and sive more beyond them,
all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven
or eight more at a distance, running another way; sor,
in a word, they ran every way, like sportsmen beating
sor their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether
they should stand and keep their posture, or slyi but
aster a very short debate with themselves, they consider-
ed that is the savages ranged the country thus, besore
help came, they might, perhaps, sind out their retreat
in the woods, and then all would be lost; so they re-
solved to stand them there; and it there were too many
to deal with, then they would get to the top os the tree,
srom whence they doubted not to desend themselves,
(sire excepted) as long as their ammunition lasted,
though all the savages that were landed, which were
near sisty, were to attack them.
Hiving resolved upon this, they next considered whe-
ther they should sire at the two sirst, or wait sor the
three, and take the middle party; by which the two
aud the sive that sollowed would be separated. At
length they resolved to let the sirst two pass by, unless
they should espy them in the tree, and come to attack
them. The two sirst savages also consirmed them in
this resolution, by turning a little srom them towards
another part os the wood; but the three, and the sive
aster them, came sorwards directly to the tree, as is they
had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they re -
solved to take them in a line as they came; and as they
resolved to sire but one at a time, perhaps Hie sirst shot
;jiight hit them all three; to which purpose, the mais
who
who was to sire, put three or sour bullets into his piece;
and, having a sair loop-hole, as it were, srom a broken
hole in the iree, he took a line aim, without being seen,
waiting till they were within about thirty yards os the
tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came
on, they plainly law that one oi the three was the run-
away that had escaped srom them, and they both
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, is possible, he
should not escape, though they should both sire; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that it he did not drop
at the sirst shot he should be lure to have a second.
But the sirst was too good a marksman to miss his
aim; sor as the savages kept nenr one another, a little
behind in a lire, he sited, and hit two os them directly.
The soremost was killed outright, being shot in the head;
the second, which was the vun away Indian, was shot
through the body, and scll, but was not quite dead;
.and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, per- •
haps by the same ball that wont through the body ot the
second ; and being dreadsully srighted, though not much
hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
in a hideous manner.
The sive that were behind, more srighted with the
noise than sensible os their danger, stood still at sirst; sor
the woods made the sound a thousand times louder than
it really was; the echoes rattling srom one side to the
other, and the sowls rising srom all parts, screaming
and making several kinds ot noise, according to their
kind, just as it was when I sired the sirst gun that, per-
haps, was ever shot off in that place since it was an
issand.
However all being silent again, and they not knowing
what the matter was, came on unconcerned till they
came to that place where their companions lay, in. a
condition miserable enough i and here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reachos the
same mischies, stood all os a huddle over the wounded
man,, talking, -and as may be supposed, enquiring os
him
him how he came to be hurt; and who, it is very rati-
onal to believe, told them that a slam os sire sirst, and
immediately aster that, thunder srom their gods had
killed those two and wounded him. This, I say, is
rational; sor nothing is more certain than that, as they
saw no man near them, and had never heard a gun in
all their lives, or so much as ever heard os one; neither
knew any thing os killing or wounding at a distance
with sire and bullets; is they had, one might reasona-
bly believe that they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned, in viewing the sate os their sellows, without
some apprehension os their own.
Our two men, though, as they consessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea-
tures, who at the same time had no notion os their
danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and
the sirst having loaded his piece again, resolved to let
sly both together among them; and singling out by-
agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed or very much wounded sour os them; the sisth,
srighted even to death, though not hurt, sell with the
reft; so that our men seeing them all sall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belies that the savages were all killed, made our
two men come bcklly srom the tree besore they had
charged their guns again, which was a wrong step; and
they were under some surprize when they came to the place
and sound no less than sour os the men alive, and os them
two very little hurt, and one not at all. This obliged
them to sall upon I hem with the stocks os their muskets,
and sirst they made sine os the run-away savage that had
been the cause os all the mischies; and os another that
was hurt in his knee, and put them out os their pain;
thin the man that was not hurt at all, came and kneeled
down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moan to them, by gestures ar.d signs, sor his
lise; but could noJ say oiie word to them that they could
understand.
However"
However they made signs to him to sit down at the
soot os a treei and one os the Englishmen, with a piece
os rope-twine, which he had by great chance in his
pocket, tied his seet sast together, and his hands behind
him, and there they lest him; and with what speed they
could, made aster the other two which were gone besore,
scaring they, or any more os them, should sind the way
to their covered place in the woods, where their wives
and the sew goods they had lest lay. They came once
in sight os the two men, but it was at a great distance;
however, they had the satissaction to lee them cross over
a valley, towards the sea, the quite contrary way srom
that which led to their retreat, which they were asraid
os; and, being satissied with that, they went back to
the tree where they lest their prisoner; who, as they
supposed, was delivered by his comrades, sor he was
gone, and the two pieces os rope-yarn, with which they
had bound him, lay just at the soot os the tree.
They were now in as great a concern as besore, not
knowing what course to take, or how near the enemy
might be, cr in what number; so they resolved to go
away to the plate where their wives were, to see is all
was wel! there, and to make them easy, who were in
sright enough to be sure; sor though the savages were
their own country-solk, yet they were most terribly
asraid os them, and perhaps the more srom the know-
ledge they had os them.
When they came thither, they sound the savages
had been in the wood, and very near the place, but
had not sound it; sor indeed it was inaccessible, by the
trees standing so thick, as besore, unless the persons
seeking it had been directed by those who knew it,
which these were not; they sound, theresore, every
thing ver)' sasc, only the women in a terrible sright.
Wli.le they were here, they had the comsort os seven of
the Spaniards coming to their assistance; the other ten
with their servants, and old Friday, (I mean, Fr day's
lather) were gone in a body to desend their bower, and
tiw corn and cattle that were kept there, in case the
.' savages
savages should have rowed over to that side os the coun-
try; but they did not spread so lar. With the seven
Spaniards came one os the savages; who, as I said,
were their prisoners sormerly; and with them also came
the savage whom the Englishmen had lest bound hand
and soot at the treei sor, it seems, they came that way,
saw the slaughter os the seven men, and unbound the
eighth, and brought him along with them ; where, how-
ever, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had
done the two others who were lest when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a -burden to them;
and they were so asraid os their eicaping, that they
thought they were under an absolute necessity to kill
them sor their own preservation i however, the Spani-
ard governor would not consent to it; but ordered that
they should be sent out os the way to my oki cave in the
vailey, and be kept there with two Spaniards to guard
them and give them soodi which was dene; and they
were bound there hand and soot sor that night.
"When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were
so encouraged, that they could not satissy themselves t9
stay any longer there; but, taking sive os the Spani-
ards and themselves, with sour musquets aud a pistol
among them, and two stout quarter-staves, awav they
went in quest os the iavages. And sirst, they came to the
tree where the men lay that had been killed; but it was
easy to see that some more os the savages had been
there; sor they attempted to carry their dead men away,
and had dragged two os them a good way, but had
given it over. From thence they advanced to the sirst
rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortisication still to
see !ome os the smoke; but neither could they here see
any os the savages. They then resolved, though with
all possible caution, to go sorward towards their ruined
plantationi but, a little besore they arrived thither,
coming in sight os the sea-shore, they saw plainly the
savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order to
be gone.
Vol. II. 30. S They
They seemed forry, at sirst, that there was no way
to come at them, to given them a parting blow; but,
upon the whole, were very well fatissied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englithmen being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to
come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them with
needful fupplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any
goo.t; as soon as they heard of it, (for they, living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was
over) came and offered their help and assistance; and
did very friendly work for several days to restore their
habitations, and make necessaries for themi and thus,
in a little time, they were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this, they had the farther fa-
tisfaction of seeing three of the lavages canoes come
driving on fhore, and at fome distance trom them, with
two drowned men , by which they had reafon to believe,
that they had met with a storm at fea, which had over-
set some of them; for it had blown very hard the night
after they went off.
However, as some might mifcarry; so, on the other
hand, enough of them efcaped to inform the rest as well
of what thty hnd done, as of what happened to them,
and to fpirit them on to another enterprise of the same
nature; which they, it feems, refolved to attempt,
with lufhcient force to carry all before themi for except
what the sirst man had tcld them of the inhabitants,
they could tsy little to it of their own knowledge, for
they never law one man; and, the fellsiw being killed
that had afsirmed it, they had no other witnels to con-
sirm it.
It was sive or six months after this before they heard
any more of the savages; in which time our men were
in hopes they had not forgot their former bad luck, or
had given over the hopes of betteri when, on a fudden
they were invaded by a most tbimidable sleet of no
Jels than twenty-eight canoes full of favages.
wilh
As the favages came on fliore in the evening, and at the
eastermost side of the itland, our men had that night to
confult and consider what to do; and, in the sirst
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only fafety before, and would, much
more be so now, while the number of their enemies
was so great; they therefore resolved, sirst of all, to
take down the huts, which were built for the
two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old
cave; becaufe they fuppofed the favages would go di-
rectly thither, as foon as it was day, to play the old
game over again, though they did not now land within
two leagues of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the slock of
goats they had at the old bower, as I call it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little ap-
pearance of inhabitants any where as possible; and the
next morning early they posted themfelves with all their
force at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their
coming. As they guested, so it happenedi thefe new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the
island, came ranging along the shore directly towards
the place, to the number of two hundred and sisty, as
near as our men could judge. Our army was but fmall
indeed"; but that which was worfe, they had no arms
for all their number neither. The whole account, if
feems, stood thus. First, as to men—
17 Spaniards.
11 Muskets.
5 Englishmen.
5 Pistols.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's
3 Fowling-pieces. .
father.
5 Muskets, or fowling-
3 Slaves, taken with the
pieces, which were ta-
women, who proved
ken by me from
very faithful.
the mutinous feamen.
j Other naves, who lived
whom I reduced.
with the Spaniards.
2 Swords.

3 Old halberts.
29
To arm thefe, they had
19
* T»
S
To their slaves they tlid not give either musket or susil;
but they had every one an halbert, or a long staff, like
a quarter-staff, with a great spike os iron sastened into
er.ch end os it, and by his side a hatchet; also every
one os our men had hatchets. Two os the women Could
not be prevailed upon, but they would come into the
sight; and they had bows and arrows, which the Spa-
niards had taken srom the savages when the sirst action
happen d,
The Spaniard governor, commanded the whole; and
William Atkins, who, was most daring and bold, com-
manded under him. The savages came sorward like
lions; and our men, which was th; worst os their sate,
had no advantage in their situation i only that Will At-
kins, who now proved a most usesul sellow, with six
men, was planted just behind a small thicket os bushes,
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the sirst os"
pas's by, and then sire into the middle os them; and as
soon as he had sired, to make his retreat, as nimbly as
he could, round a part os the wood, and so come in
behind the Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket
os trees all besore them.
When the iavages came on, they ran straggling about
every wav in heaps, out os all manner oi order; and
Will Atkins let about sisty os them pass by him; then
seeing the reft come in a very thick throng, he ordered
three os his men to sire, having loaded their muskets
with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as largs
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they
knew not; but the consternation and surprize was inex-
pressible among the savages, who were srighted to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadsul noise, and Ice their
men killed, and others hurt, but see no body that did
iti when, in the middle os their sright, William At-
kins, and his other three, let sly again ariiong the
thickest os them; and, in less than a minute, the sirst
three being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Kad William Atkins and his men retired immedi-
ately, as soon as they had sired, as they were ordered,
to
to do, or had the rest os the body been at hand, to have
poured in their shot continually, the savages had been
essectually routed i sor the tenor that was among them
came principally srom thisi viz. that they were killed
by the gods os thunder and lightning, and could iee no-
body that hurt them; but William Atkins, staying to
load again, discovered the cheat. Some os the savages
who were at a distance, spying them, came upon them
behind; and, though Atkins and his men sired at them
also two or three times, and Jcilled above twenty, re-
tiring as sast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
liimsels, and killed one os his scllow Englishmen with
their arrows; as they did asterwards one Spaniard, and
one os the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most gallant sellow, and sought most
desperately, killing sive os them with his own hand,
having no weapon but one os the armed staves and a
hatchet.
Our men being thus hard put to it, Atkins wounded
and two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground
in the wood; and the Spaniards, aster siring three vol-
lies upon them, retreated also i sor their number was
so great, and they were so desperate, that though above
sisty os them were killed, and more than so many
wounded, yet they came on in the sace ot our men, sear-
less os danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and
it was observed, that their wounded men, who were
not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their
wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they lest the Spaniard and
the Englislvman that were killed behind them; and the
savages, when they came up to them, mangled then-
bodies in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs,
and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like
true savages. But, sinding our men were gone, they
did not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up
into a kind os a ring, which is, it seems, their custom;
and shouted twice, in token os their victory. Aster
which, they had the mortisication to see several of
S 3 their
their wounded men sall, dying with the mere loss os
blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body
up together upon a rismg grtur.d, Atkins, though he
was wounded, persuaded him to march and charge
them again all together at once. But the Spaniard re-
plied—' Seignior Atkins,you see how their wounded men
'sight; let them alone till morningi all these wounded
'men will lie stiff and sore with their wounds, and saint
'with the loss os blood; and so we shall have the sewer
'to engage.'
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily—'That's true, Seignior, and so m?U I too; and
'that's the reason I would go on while I am warm.'
• Well, Seignior Atkins, (says the Spaniard) you have
'behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will sight
J sor you, is you cannot come eni but I think it best
• to stay till morning.' This was agreed to.
But as it vffas a clear moon-light night, and they
sound the savages in great disorder about their dead and
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among them
where they by, they afterwards resolved to sall upon
them in the night, especially is they could come to give
them but one volley before they were discovered. This
they had a sair opportunity to do; sor one os the two
Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the sight
began, led them round, between the woods and the iea-
;icÆ, westward, and turning short south, they came so
ioi LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF
were seen or heard, eight os them sired in among them
and did dreadsul execution upon them i in halt a minute
more, eight others sired aster them, pouring in their
small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not
able to sce who hurt them, or which way to sly.
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expe-
dition, and then divided themselves into three bodies,
and resolved to sall in among them all together. Thev
ha.! in each body eight persons; that is to say, twenty
sour;
four; whereos were twenty two rren, and the two wo-
men, who, by the way, sought desperately.
They divided the sire arms equally in each party,
snd also the halberts and slaves,. They would have
ha.'. the women keep back, but they said, they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Harirs; thus sormed
their little army, they marched out srom among the
trees, and came up to the sace os the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could. The savages staed
all together, but were in the utmost consusion, hearing
the r.oise cs our men shouting srom three quartet s to-
gether. They would have sought is they had seen us;
and, as soon as we came near enough to be seen, sent?
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded,
though not dangerously. Our men, however, gave
them no time; but, running up to them, sired among
them three ways, and then tell in with the but-ends os
their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets,
and laid about them so sorcibly, that in a word, they
set up a dismal screaming and howling, slying to save
their lives which way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution; and killed,
or mortally wounded, in the two sii;hts, about one
hundred and eighty os them. The rest, being srighted
out os their wits, scoured through the woo is, and over
the hills, with all the speed and scar that nimble seet
could help them to do; and, as we did not trouble cur-
selves much to pursue them, they got ali together to
the sea-side, where they landed, and where their canoes
lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet; sor it
blew a terrible storm os wind that evening srom the sea
to the shore, so that it was impotsible sor them to put
oss; nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide
came up, their cances were most os them driven by the
surge os the sea so high upon the shore, that it required
insinite toil to get them ofs; and some os them were
even dashed to pieces agamst the beach, or against one
another.
Our men. though glad os their victory, yet got little
rest
rest that night; but having resreshed themselves as welt
as they could, they resolved to march to that part os
the island where the savages were sled, and see what
posture they were in. This necessarily led them over
the place where the sight had been, and where they sound
several os the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet
past recovering lisei a sight disagreeable enough to ge-
nerous minds; sor a truly great man, though obliged
by the law os battle to destroy his enemy, takes no de-
light in his misery,
However, there was no need to give any order in
this case; sor their own savages who were their servants
dispatched those poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view os the place where the
more miserable remains os the savages army lay, where
there appeared about one hundred still; their posture
was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees
up towards their mouth, and their head put between
the hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shot os them,
the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be sired
without ball, to alarm them. This he did, that by
their countenance lie might know what to expect; viz.
whether they were still in heart to sight, or were so
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and
so he might manage accordinglv.
This stratagem succeeded; sor as soon as the savages
heard the sirst gun, and saw the slash os the second, they
started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation
imaginable; and, as our men advanced swistly towards
them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, with a
kind os a howling noise, which our men did not under-
stand, and had never heard besore; and thus they ran
up the hills into the country.
At sirst, our men had much rather the weather had
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea. But
they did not then consider, that this might probably
have been the occasion os their coming again in tuch
multitudes as not to be relisted; or, at least, to come sa
many
many and so osten, as would quite desolate the island,
and starve them. Wiii Atkins, theresore, who not
withstanding his wound, kept always w.th them, proved
the best counsellor iiv this case. His advice w;.s, to
take the advantage that offered, and cl-<p iii between
them and their boats, and Ib deprive them os the c?pa-
city ot' ever returning any more to plague the island.
Thev consulted long about this, ai.d icine were against
>t, sor sear ot makmg the wretches sly into the woods,
and live there desperate; ano so they mould have them
to hunt like wild beasts, be asraid to ilir about their
business, and have their plantation continually risled,
all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be re-
duced to a Use ot continual distress.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do
with one hundred men, than with one hundred nations;
that as they must destroy their boats, so they must de-
stroy the men, cr be all os them destroyed themselves.
In a word, he shewed them the necessity os it so plainly
that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and, getting some dry wood to-
gether srom a dead tree, they tried to set some os them
on sire; but they were so wet, that they would scarce
burn. However, the sire io burned the upper part,
that it soon made them unsit sor swunming in the sea
as boats. When the Indians saw what they were about,
some os them came muning out os the woeds; and
coming a? near as they could to our men, knet led down,
and cried—' On, en, luaramakoci and tome etherwerds
os their language, which none os the others understood
any thing osi but as they made pitisul gestures, and
strange noises, it was easy to understand, they begged to
have their boats spared, and that they would be gone,
and never come thither again.
But our men were now satissied, that they had r.o way
to preicrve themselves or to save their colony, but es-
scctually to prevent any os these people srom ever going
home again; depending upon this, that is ever so much
as one os them got back into their country to tell the
story.
story, the colony was undone. So that, letting tliem
know that they should not have any mercy, they sell to
work with their canoes, and destroyed them every one
that the stor n had not destroyed besore; at the sight os
which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard plain enough; aster which they
ran about the island like distracted men; so that, in a
word, our men did not really know at sirst what to do
with them.
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, con-
sider, that while they made those veople thus desperate,
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time
upon their plantations; sor though it is true they had
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not sind
their main retreat; (I mean my old castle at the hill,
not my cave in the valley;) yet they sound out
my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to
pieces, and all the scnces and planting about it; trod
all the corn under soot, tore up the vines and grapes,
being just then almost ripe; and did our men an inesti-
mable damage, though to themselves not the smallest
kind os service.
Though our men were able to sight them upon all
occasions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them,
or hunt them up and downi sor as they were too nimble
os soot sor our men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single, sor sear os being
surrounded with their numbers.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was
great, and indeed deplorable; but, at the same time,
our men were also brought to very hard circumstances
by them; sor though their retreats were preserved, yet
their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled;
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves they
knew not. The only resuge they had now, was the
stock os cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. The three Englishmen,
"William Atkins, and his comrades, were now reduced
Jo two, one os them being killed by an arrow, which
struck
struck him on the side of his head, just under the temple,
fo that lie never fpoke more; and it was very remark-
able, that this was the fame barbarous fellow who cut
the poor favage slave with his hatchet, and who after-
wards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.
I looked upon their cafe to have been worse at this
time, than mine was at any time after I sirst difcovered
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the method
of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle;
for now they had, as I may fay, a hundred wolves on
the island, which would devour every thing they could
come at, yet could be very hardly come at themselves.
The sirst thing they concluded, when they law what
their circumstances were, was, that they would, if possi-
ble drive them up to the farther part os the island, fouth-
east, that if any more favages came on shore, they might
not sind one another; then, that they would daily hunt
and harrafs them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they
could at last tame them, and bring them to any thing,
they would give them corn, and teach them how to plant
and live upon their daily labour.
In order to this, they followed them, and so terrisied
them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them
sired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for fenr; and so dreadfully frighted
they were, that they kept out of sight farther and far-
ther; till at last our men following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept
up in the woods and hollow places so much, that it re-
duced them to the utmost misery for want of food ; and
many were afterwards found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, but merely starved to death.
When our menfound this, it made their hearts relent,
and pity moved them; especially the Spaniard governor,
who was the most g< 'itleman like, generous minded
.man, that I ever met with in my life i ana he proposed,
if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to
understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as
as interpreter, and to go among them, and see is they
might be brought to some conditions, that might be
depended upon to, save their lives and to do us no in-
jury.
It was some time besore any os them could be taken;
but, being vreak, and hals starved, one os them was at
last suprized, and made a prisoner; he was sullen at
sirst, and would neither eat nor drink; but sinding him-
sess kincly used, and victuals given him, and no vio-
lence offered him; he at last grew tractable, and came
to himicls.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked osten
with him, and tcld hiin how kind the others would be
to them all; that they would not only Iave their lives,
but would give them a part os the island to live in, pro-
vided they would give satissaction, that they should keep
in their own bounds, aud not come beyond them, to
injure or prejudice others; and that they should have
corn given them, to plant and make it grow sor their
bread, and some biea,i given them ior their present sub-
sistence i and old Friday bade the sellow go and talk
wiih the rest os his countrymen, and see what they said
to it; assuring them, that is they did not agree imme-
diately, they should all be destroyed*
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled and reduced
in number to about thirty seven, closed with the propo-
sal at the sirst effer, and begged to have some sood given
them; upon which twelve Spaniards and two English-
men, well armed, and three Indian slaves and old Friday
marched to the place where they were. The three In-
dian staves carried them a large quantity os bread, and
seme nee bciled up to cakes, and dried in the sun, and
three live g-'ats; and they were ordered to go to the
side os a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions
very thankiully, and were the most saithsul iellows to
their words rh it could be thought os; sor, except when
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came
out ot their bounds; and there they lived when I came
to the island, and I went to see them.
They
They had taught them both to plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them. They wanted
nothing but wives, and they soon would have been a na-
tion. They were consined to a neck ot land, furrounded
with high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards
the fea before them, on the fouth-east corner of the itland.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruit-
ful; for they had a piece os land about a mile and a half
broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden fpades, fuch
as I made for myfels; and gave among them twelve
hatchets, and three or four knives ; and there they lived,
the most fubjected; innocent creatures that ever were
heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity,
with refpect to the favages, till I came to revisit them,
which was in about two years. Not but that now and
then some canoes of favages came on more for their
triumphal unnatural feasts; but as they were of feveral
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of thofe who
came before, or the reafon of it, they did not make any
fearch or enquiry after their countrymen; and if they
had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them, to my return; at least, that was
worth notice. The Indians, or favages, were won-
derfully civilized by them, and they frequently went
among them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the
Indians coming to them, becaufe they would not have
their fettlements betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the favages to make wicker-work,or baskets; but they
soon out-did their masters, for they made abundance of
most ingenious things in wicker-work; particularly,
all sorts ot baskets, sieves, bird cages, cupboards, &c.
as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at fuch work
when they were once put in the way of it.
Vol. II. 30. T My
My coming was a particular relies to these people,
because we surnished them with knives, scissars, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things os that kind which
they could want.
With the help os these tools they were so very handy,
trfet they came at last to build up their huts or houses,
very handsomely; raddling, or working it up like bas-
ket work all the way round, which was a very extra-
ordinary piece os ingenuity, and looked very odd; but
was an exceeding good sence, as well against heat, as
well as against all sorts os vermin; and our men were so
taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come
and do the like sor them; so that when I came to see
the two Englishmens colonies, they looked, at a
distance, as is they lived all like bees in a hive; and as
sor Will Atkins, who was now become a very indus-
trious, necessary, and sober sellow, he had made himsels
such a tent os basket-work, as I believe was never seen;
it was one hundred and twenty paces round on the
outside, as I measured by my steps; the walls were as
close worked as a basket, in pannels or squares, thirty-
two in number, and very strong, standing about seven
seet high i in the middle was another, not above twen-
ty-two paces round, but built stronger, being eight
square in its sorm, and in the eight corners, stood eight
very strong posts, round the top os which he had laid
strong pieces, joined together with wooden pins, srom
which he laid a pyramid besore the roos os eight rasters,
very handsomely constructed, and joined together very
well, though he had no nails, and only a sew iron spikes
which he had made himsels out os the old iron which I
had lest there; and, indeed, this sellow shewed abun-
dance os ingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge osi he made himsels a sorge, with a pair os
wooden bellows to blow the sire; he made himsels char-
coal sor his work, and sormed out ot or.e os the iron
crows a middlmg good anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially, hooks,
staples, and spikes, bolts and hinges.
The
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round
this inner apartment, and long rasters lay srom the
thirty-two angles, to the top posts os the inner-house,
being a'io\it twenty-seet distant; so that there was a
space like a walk, within the outer wicker-wall, and
without the inner, near twenty seet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same
wicker-work, but much sairer, and divided into six
apartments, so that he had six rooms on a sloor, and out
- os every one os these there was a door; sirst, into the
entry or coming into the main tent,, and another door
into the space or walk that was round it; so that this
walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served
not only sor a retreat,'but to store up any necessaries
which the samilies had occasion sor. These six spaces
not sakingupthe whole circumserence, what other apart-
ments the outer circle had, were thus ordered i As soon
as you were in at the door os the outer circle, you had a
short passage straight besore you to the door os the inner
house; but on either side was a wicker partition, and a
door in it, by which you went, sirst into a large room
or store-house, twenty seet wide, and about thirty seet
long, and through that into another not quite so long. So
that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six os
which were only to be come at through the apartments
os the inner tent, and served as closets or retired rooms
to the respective chambers os the inner circle; and sour
large warehouses or barns, or what you please to call
them, which went in through one another, two on either
hand os the passage, that led through the outer door to
the inner tent.
Such a piece os basket-work, I believe, was never
seen in the world; nor an house or tent so neatly con-
trived, much less so built. In this great bee-hive lived
the three samilies; that is to say, Will Atkins and his
companion; the third was killed but his whe remained
with three children; sur she was, it seems, big with
child when he died; and the other two were not at all
backward lo give the widow her sull share os every
3 thing
hing; I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c..an4
when thev killed a kid, or sound a turtle on the shore;
Co that they all lived well enough, though, it was true,
thev were not so industrious as the other two, as has
been observed already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as
sor religion, I don't know that there was any thing os
that kind among them i they pretty osten, indeed, put
one another in mind that there was a God, by the very
common method os seamen, viz. swearing by his name.
Nor were their poor ignorant savage wives much the
better sor having been married to Christians, as we must
call them; sor as they knewvery little os God themselves,
so they were utterly incapable os entering into any dis-
course' with their wives about a God, or to talk any
thing to them concerning rtligion.
The utmost os all the improvement which I could fry
the wives had made srom them, was, that they had
taught them to speak English pretty well; and all the
children they had, which were near twenty in all, were
taught to speak English too, srom their sirst learning to
speak, though they at sirst spoke it in a very broken
manner like their mothers. There were none os these
children above six years old when I came thither; sor it
was not much above seven years that they had setched
these sive savage ladies over; but they had all been
pretty sruitsul, sor thev had all children, more or less. I
think the cook's mate's wise was big os her sixth child;
and the mothers were all a good sort os well-governed,
quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpsul to
one another, mightv observant and subject to their mas-
ters, (I cannot call them husbands) and wanted no-
thing bat to be well instructed in the Christian relip-ion,
and to be legally married; both which were happily
brought about asterwards by my means, or, at least,
by the consequence os my coming among them,
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
*ha...

